ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, please register. [[10:01:33]] There are 394 Ukrainian National Deputies registered in the session hall, and the morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome our colleague, former Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Tkachenka Alexander Mikolaiovich, with his birthday. I can't see, really, Alexander Mikolaiovich, but let's applaud and welcome. [[Applause]] First. Let's start with short messages and announcements. Further announcements of parliamentary inquiries. First of all, I have to report on the draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine. [[concerning guarantees of non-touchability for individual officials]] The Constitutional Court of Ukraine approved the refusal to open constitutional conduct in the case of a request by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on the appropriateness of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine to the requirements of article 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and in accordance with part six of article 139 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, I report that the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, registration number 4058, is also a bill adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call and number 0850 of the Supreme Council on the sixth call, is considered to have been withdrawn without further vote on the matter. [[concerning guarantees of the integrity of individual officials]] [[concerning guarantees of non-touchability for individual officials]] Next. Colleagues, I'm calling in MPs. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Mikola Tomenka to the head of the Ukraine’s Presidential Secretariat, Victor Baloga, on the use of urgent measures in connection with the unsatisfying consideration of the parliamentary appeal regarding the need to conduct official investigations into the distortion of the official position of the President of Ukraine by individual officials of State authorities. Alexander Omelchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the destruction of the territory and objects of the natural-commanding fund of the Yuków Islands, Desert Waters, Feofania, Truhan Islands and other objects in Kiev. Basil Hara. To the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-elimination of the Institute of Oncology of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Sergei Greenewecki. To the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the payment by the United States of America of air navigation services for aircraft that cross the airspace of Ukraine. Julia Novikova. To the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the preparation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Ukraine Draft Law on the State Budget 2008 and on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine. July Novikova to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the provision of information on Ukraine's 2008 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine and on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Mr. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Director General of the State Enterprise for Air Traffic Services of Ukraine, Ukraine, for the payment of air navigation services for the service of NATO aircraft that cross Ukraine's airspace. Andrija Pavlovski to Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, for the beating of members of Kyivrad during the plenary session of the Kiev City Council on December 7, 2006. Ukrainian National Deputies' Groups to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for Ignoring Offers to Admission to the Higher Education Institutions of Ukraine for individual categories of graduates. [[This is our colleague Boguslaev, Dry and Miroshnichenko]] Roman Zabzaluk to the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine regarding the failure to respond to the parliamentary appeal regarding the protection of the rights of the inhabitants of the two crash houses located near the Odessa-Melitopol-Novoazovsk route. Basil Hara to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper performance of the Office of the Prosecutor. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the formal response to the MP’s appeal to examine the facts of the cynical theft of state property and the funds of the previous Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, whose vivid example was the manipulation of the State’s residence in the Medighorium. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the non-responsibility of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Mikolai District to appeal to the MPs for possible violations of existing legislation by the management of the farm cooperative “Memory of Communaries” and owners of the trading pavilions of the Katrin market of Mikolai. Colleagues, all parliamentary requests have been duly announced. I would ask that we move on to the schedule of meetings today. For your consideration of the meeting schedule, I would like to ask that we vote in favour of it with one amendment: that we consider the question of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine after considering the question of parliamentary integrity, namely: after consideration of 1375. Colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of today's meeting schedule. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please be five minutes out of the procedure. Please log in. Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u2	Please give the word to Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u3	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u4	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, respected by Arsenija Petrovich, we agreed with you yesterday when we signed the Understanding Protocol on issues that will be included in the agenda today and in the coming weeks. And unfortunately, we have to say that there are some issues, well, just misunderstandings and deviations. First of all, we do not understand how issues from one committee can be dealt with immediately: one, two, three, four, five, six issues from one committee, and we do not take into account the question of State purchases that have remained priority issues that we have raised and insisted that they should be included in the order of the meeting. And, Arsenius Petrovich, I would like us to abide by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u5	Please enable Alexander Sergiyovich to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u6	I would like us to comply with the Rules in our meetings. First of all, yesterday you announced a vote on one of the orders, referring to the failure of the Arjevitina card. We report to you that the card worked, and that's why you put the vote to the vote remains unknown. Now, yesterday, an explanatory note was sent to the hall on the order you signed, under your name, signed. First, it is legally, well, softly speaking, requiring appropriate refinement and this is a controversial issue. Secondly, it was in the hall after the ruling had been voted on. And thirdly, it just doesn't work, you'll explain to your assistants. Finally, we would like to request that a ruling be sent to NATO headquarters yesterday, as this is recorded and informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u7	All right, Alexander Alexievich. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u8	Thank you. Communist faction, Martinyuk. Dear Arseniy Petrovich, my distinguished colleagues, yesterday I tried to draw your attention to the Rules and I would like to stress again today, there is a special chapter in the Rules on matters related to the amendment of the Constitution. When we accepted the changes made to the Rules, we made this article consciously, remembering how we had adopted the previous changes. And I ask you to pay attention to those who want to push today against the decisions of the Rules and the absence of the conclusions of the Committees on the 140th article of the Rules. The PSC should conclude on fifteen positions for any bill submitted to the Constitution. We don't have any conclusions from the profile committee at all. The reference to the fact that it had been more than a month and the committee had not considered it, there is no reason, because this is a special chapter on making changes to the Constitution. Without committees, we have no right to consider it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u9	Thank you. Ivy Ivan Stepanovich. Knyazevich, please. Comrade Knazevitch. Turn the Prince on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, the point is, Adam Ivanovich has just said that we have no reason to consider this bill without committee conclusions. But instead, I point out that the sixth part of the 140th article of the Rules just allows us to consider such a bill if for some reason the committee has not been able to consider it within 30 days. To that end, the Rules confer exclusive power on the Head of the Supreme Council to submit such a bill on his own initiative to the Parliament. The point is that, honourable national deputies, this special constitutional procedure does not presuppose the need to discuss the matter as a matter of order of the day. In one decision, it is sufficient to send him to the Constitutional Court for conclusion at the same time. So we have enough to deal with this question for two or three minutes. And there's no need to keep it in the daytime. We need to start a meeting with him today and immediately kill two hares by voting in favour of including the matter in the agenda, by sending it to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u11	Thank you. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u12	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends! First of all, we haven't worked in a long time. Clearly, then, we need to get to work without any special distractions. That's the first one. The other one. I don't agree with the idea that you can't specialize in our work day-to-day issues. This was a good idea by Arsenius Petrovich, and it must be supported. Moreover, I will say that some committees have not yet met at their second meeting. Therefore, waiting to be evenly distributed among the load committees is not worth waiting for. Individual committees have already been held for tens, two meetings, and someone is not working. So we have to stick to what's coming and specializing in our workdays. And obviously one more question needs to be addressed today. The point is that yesterday we included in the agenda, for some reason we voted 226 votes in favour of the commission of inquiry when our Rules foresee that the following committees are formed by 150 votes. And so from the question of Kiev and Kharkiv, we have to look at them today. You're welcome in the set, all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u13	Thank you. Colleagues, time for discussion is over. Let me give you a few things. First of all, I'd like to turn around. Time is up, five minutes. The ‘Lithuania Block’ asks for further comments. This is Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich. I think that in view of the fact that there was a time shift, I am asking to include Grenevetsky Sergey Rafeilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u14	Thank you. Please pass the word to Volodymyr Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u15	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let's begin by consolidating Parliament, welcoming our female colleagues, and all of Ukraine's women with the celebration of March 8th. [[Applause]] And we wish all of us success, because women should mobilize us for a tolerant job. I ask you not to count this time in general. And now, essentially. Dear colleagues, yesterday we approved the meeting schedule for two days as agreed. The question is, Why did a new schedule arise today when the previous one was not completed? If the Supreme Council is designed to serve the political plans of one part of the session hall, I am convinced that this does not consolidate the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's make our decision. And who has such a large itch to solve their political problems, we recommend the following.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u18	We recommend that the next session, as required by the Rules, return to unsupported issues. And let's solve the problems that bother people, which are so hotly talked about. Let's take a look at the issues that we confirmed yesterday for two days. And don't break our agreements as a result of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, the first thing I'd like to start with is about Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov's proposal. It'll be very correct if we support this proposal, and the next plenary day, which will take place in a week, we'll start off with the issue of the agenda, which is formed by the opposition. That's the right thing to do. And so we're really going to show that the Ukrainian Parliament is democratic. So at the Conciliation Council meeting next Monday, I propose that only the first plenary day of the next plenary week be formed by opposition. Of all the issues of order of the day, including the social ones, Alexander Sergiyovich, that you raised. The other one. The card did not work, and the name was wrong, not Argewitin, but the Stick. This is my mistake, Alexander Sergiyovich, and I found out, because it's in these tumults. Third. The NATO order, as soon as it is signed, I gave the order to translate it and solely to send it to Brussels as provided for by the appropriate act we adopted yesterday. So I ask that in no case do you survive until the end of this day in Brussels will be translated into English in an appropriate manner, certified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Act. Third. As for yesterday's agenda, I would like to remind all the national MPs that when the agenda was approved yesterday, the word “ratification” was used. All the ratifications we went through yesterday, so we have to re-establish the agenda today. I'm asking you to look at the stenographer, and in fact, in the stenographer, all of these things are reflected. Next. With regard to the procedure for amending the Constitution of Ukraine, I fully and fully agree that a committee decision is necessary. Sadly, however, the committee did not make its decision. Therefore, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will allow myself to read: “If the Main Committee in the Rules is within the time limit set out in this Rules,” is the 88 article, you know, “you will not accept the conclusion that the relevant bill is included in the agenda of the day session, the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the 15-day period following a written request from the subject of the legislative initiative. [[Comma]] ‘ I’ll show you everything right now, it’s all on my desk, Adam Ivanovich, I just don’t read anything. [[which I have from the appropriate subject]] I read only when everything is legally prepared. “. After a written request from the subject of the law of the legislative initiative addresses the issue of the bill in plenary session and decides to include it in the agenda of the day session, or to give the Main Committee extra time.” So if we don't make a decision about the inclusion in the agenda, then the next hypothetical decision, it could be an extra term for the committee. However, the first is the inclusion in the order of the day. So I'm asking that you don't force me to break the Rules, there's an appropriate address of the subject, there's 91th part of the third, and I'm forced by the Rules to put this question in order of day. The alternative bill was introduced in the Rules for the eighth day, the Rules provide for nine days, our fellow MEP Ephraim, or alternative registered, that is, 1375 and 1375-1 will be considered today. It is solely a matter of agreeing that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should take a decision to refer to the Constitutional Court. Next, the Constitutional Court will come and we will continue to consider the relevant proceedings. As far as TSC is TSCs are on, they're all on. I'd like to brief you very briefly on the temporary commission of inquiry. Yesterday, I met with the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich. In addition to discussing both changes to legislation and to the general criminality situation, the Minister of the Interior addressed me with a written statement requesting the Supreme Council of Ukraine to put into order a day-to-day question concerning the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission with regard to the Minister of Internal Affairs. This is a written statement, including that signed by the Minister of Internal Affairs. Thus, all these Provisional Commissions of Inquiry stand in order of the day. In view of this, honourable colleagues, I would like to go to work and vote in favour of the agenda with the passing of the relevant law on the Cabinet of Ministers. I'll bet you a vote on the agenda. [[10:19:58]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're starting to consider the issues of daytime order. First draft of the decree. Please show by factions. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 154, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 72, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 0. I'm asking the first question of the agenda, this is 1115, about the draft regulation on the creation of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Colleagues, I've been meaning to advise you, let me, Oleg Alexanderovich, I need to hold a meeting, thank you, sit down, please. Draft Decision on the creation of the Temporary Follow-up Commission. I'm proposing that we don't discuss it right now, but that we can work with the Interim Investigation Commissions, so let's go through the shorter procedure. I'd like to propose a short-term TSC. Temporary commission investigators three, as agreed. I would like to vote on the order of adoption of the TSC by a reduced procedure, please vote. [[10:21:17]] For 223 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I'm sorry about the cut. So there's 150, colleagues, short-term procedure. Procedural decision, summary procedure. Colleagues, quiet. 1115. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, please report. Guys, don't argue, I'm asking you to take care of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! Dear people of the glorious city of Harkov! The basis for Ukraine’s national deputies Feldman, Catherinechuk, and Lachuk’s draft decision by the Supreme Council on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council to investigate the facts of the violation of Ukraine’s Constitution, the laws of Ukraine by Kharkov’s city head Dobkin Mikhail Markovich and the Secretary of the Kharkov City Council, Kernes Gennadiy Adolfovich, has been the appeal of more than 220,000 Kharkivs to the highest authorities of the state, requiring the cessation of the illegal activities of the current city’s leaders. However, these appeals are directed to the law enforcement authorities, unfortunately for the time being, without a proper response. Although the facts indicated in these references strongly indicate what they are. Kharkiv City Council and city head have taken a firm rule to ignore the Constitution and laws of Ukraine when adopting their decisions, disregarding the legal rights and interests of citizens and legal persons. In particular, in the Kharkiv region, decisions on renting land to citizens and legal persons have become massive, contrary to the requirements of the Council’s legislation and regulations, without prior discussion in the permanent commissions and the conclusions of the Council’s Legal Department. For example, during 14 sessions, more than a dozen companies were granted permission to design land projects for rent, passing the envisaged procedure. Instead, according to a single decision by Dobkin and Kernes, a number of companies were removed from the Council’s draft decision, which had been given positive decisions at the meetings of the permanent commission. Despite the district attorney’s appeal to the authorities of Kharkiv, similar violations of land law took place in the following sessions of the landowners. Nor is it a secret in Kharkiv that most land areas are leased to actually controlled Dobkin and Kernes single-day firms. The latter are usually registered with the rightful ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u22	Prior to another session of land thefts, and after making the appropriate decision, the land obtained by these firms before they contract leases are put on sale by handing over corporate rights to these firms. Until recently, almost 350 of these companies have been discovered. The total area of land formed on them is more than 150 hectares of urban land. As a result of these landscaping tools, the city’s budget lacks substantial funds to increase the standard of living of hundreds of thousands of Kharkivs. Instead, with the help of Harkowi’s city authorities, the standard of living increases significantly in just a small circle of shadow areas, with millions of dollars in their pockets. At the same time, the Secretary of State Kernes, apparently following a well-known statement: “To his—everything other person—nothing” — a long time, contrary to the Earth Code, does not consider projects over 500 land leases, to which citizens and legal persons have been granted a right from the City Council. The pronoun of ignoring today’s Kharkiv city’s law - enforcement requirements is also evidenced by the fact that in the fourteenth session of the land theft, the buildings of architectural monuments are being placed in the list of municipal property that are subject to privatization. The city’s leaders are not even fit to take care of the necessary consent of the cultural heritage authority in such cases. In the absence of a proper response by law enforcement authorities to these and others, not only in the absence of time, but also in the absence of effective legislation in the actions of valid officials, the Harkowi city authorities, and the need for a commission of inquiry. After voting in favour of the draft decrees, the national deputies will extend their hands to help the Kharkivs, taking the first step towards depriving the inhabitants of this glorious place of the fair of their own injustice and the impunity of the city’s authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u23	Oleg Valeriyovich, I'm sorry, but it takes 226 votes, not 223, to make a decision on a reduced procedure. So, first of all, the Supreme Council's device is a reference to who sits up there and doesn't know how to count. And secondly, we have to go back to the full discussion procedure, or go back to the question of going back to the shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u24	Let's do it the whole way. We don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u25	Half a minute, this is a question right now, this is a question that we're going to go through in full, and then, if there's a proposal for a shorter procedure, I have to put it to a vote again. Can I have a question-answer to Laszka?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u26	I'm sorry, but if we go through with this, let me read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u27	Oleg Valeriyovich, I'm sorry, you've finished your report. I'm asking for an answer to the reporter. Litwin Volodymir Mihajlovich, “Block Lithuania”. Five minutes of question-answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u28	Please hand it over to the national deputy, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u29	Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u30	Thank you very much. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, honourable reporter, I would like you to answer the question, do you think any vote will be legitimate, including those relating to constitutional norms? If article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine is now boldly violated, paragraph 3 which states, I quote: “The vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall be carried out by the Ukrainian People’s Deputies personally.” And in this regard, my report, would you not be the initiator of the removal of cards from those deputies who are not in the session room today? In this regard, such serious questions, reasoning, and social issues should be considered when we know clearly that each national MP is personally voting. In this regard, we propose that all voting take place through standing up, raising hands, and visual observation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u31	Since the question does not apply to the substance of the question that I report, I do not consider it necessary to answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u32	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u33	Please give the word to the Ukrainian national deputy, Inni, the Godslavo.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u34	Mrs. Godsister.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u35	Honorary colleagues, according to the Rules of the Supreme Council, may not be members of the commission of inquiry, who have either their own interests in the matter of the commission that has been set up, or the lawsuits that are in the court’s case concerning the facts that are being brought before the commission of inquiry. Therefore, deputies: Laško, Catherinechuk, and Feldman do not have the right under the Rules to participate in the work of this commission because they had in one way or another court cases and court disputes with the city council. So I propose today to remove this question, to ask the BUT faction and the NH-NS faction to change the personal composition of the deputies of this commission, because the Council of Harkov will have legitimate reasons not to allow these deputies to carry out the inspection and work of the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u36	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u37	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! From this presentation, I want the Harkowians to know what is going on, not a commission, and a respected colleague is already telling us that the city authorities will not allow checks. Yeah, if you're hiding anything, if you're so white and fluffy, what do you object to?Oh, my God! Besides, I didn't have any cases, and the Harkow City Council, and I've never tried them, and they're the same to me, and I've never heard of them. So I see no reason, and I hope that Kharkiv city authorities will not take as an example what a fellow theologian has to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u38	Kostenko Pavel Ivanovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u39	Thank you for giving the floor to the People's Deputy Kamchat.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u40	Please, National Deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the Harkowians will be most grateful today for the creation of this commission of inquiry. Thank God we've come to that point. And I'm asking you not to forget the subject. Let's create a commission of inquiry and, really, if there's nothing to hide from that city authority, let them show it. But the Harkians are tired of the misery that is taking place there. I'm just urging us to move forward urgently on this issue and create this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u42	Thank you. Colleague Crnvolenko Alexander Vilenovich “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u43	Alexander Cronvolenko “Our Ukraine”. Dear reporter, you've given very clear evidence of a violation of the law by Kharkiv city authorities, but you haven't given enough time. I'd like you to use the rest of your time to point out additional facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u44	Thank you. And here's another fact. It's about taking away the premises. For example, in a privatization fire, Kharkiv city authorities had even found a place in which one of the militia’s secret departments was located. The head of the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Kharkiv region first appealed to the prosecutor’s office to check the legality of such a decision. Later, however, for reasons only known to him, he withdrew. It was the premises that were privatized at the next session of the landowners. And now police intelligence is forced to look for a new conspiracy apartment. The Provincial Rajviskammat of Harkova is also likely to face fate. It is now located in a total area of over 3,000 feet [3.5,000 m]. At the beginning of last year, however, Dobkin and Kernes, with the participation of their subordinate leaders, are trying to evict the army from the 1996 premises occupied by them. And recently, in a building that fell into the eye, apparently not one entrepreneur, electricity was cut off. I mean, this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have to go back to the order of the matter, because after giving instructions to the machine to write an explanation, the apparatus wrote an explanation and pretty clear. 108 Article 2 of the Rules: “In considering the bill in the first reading, the Supreme Council may take a procedural decision to discuss the reduced procedure”. 49th - “under the reduced procedure – 150”. Adam Ivanovich, please, I know that. Oleg Valeriyovich, please sit down. Once again, I want to find out how to deal with it. Adam Ivanovich, you wanted to say something, I just read the Rules. Involve Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk and let us proceed with our consideration. Alexander Sergiyovich, you, if you please, on the rostrum and we. Adam Ivanovich, 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u46	Thank you. You're right to quote that, really, we have the opportunity in a reduced procedure to vote on the debate, which lists 108 of the articles that you refer to, so you can conduct them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u47	So it could be shorter? I didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u48	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u49	Yeah. So, comrades, let's go back to the reduced procedure. But I think in the coming days we just have to be more careful about making procedural decisions. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! At the meeting of the Committee on 14 January and 4 February, a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine by the city head Kharkiv Dobkin Mikhail Markovich and the Secretary of the City Council of Kharkiv Kernes Hennadiy Adolfovich in the system of tariff, property, land, budget and financial relations in carrying out their duties, submitted by the national deputies of Ukraine to Feldman, Katerinczuk, Lášk in exchange of registration number 1115 of 11.01.2008, was considered in accordance with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee invites the authors to change the name of the commission, namely: the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine in the field of tariff, property, land, budget and financial relations by officials of the Kharkiv City Council and its implementing bodies in carrying out their duties. And the task of the Interim Investigation Commission is to determine the following. First. To investigate the situation of violations of the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukrainian laws in the field of tariff, property, land, budget and financial relations by officials of the Kharkiv City Council and its executive body in carrying out their duties. The other one. Analyse the actions of officials of the Kharkiv City Council and its executive body to comply with Ukraine’s legislation in the field of tariff, property, land, budget and financial relations in their service obligations. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision of the Supreme Council, registration number 1115, to the Committee on Accounting.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u51	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u52	The committee had reached the decisions of the Committees on Legal Policy and Public Building and Local Self - Government, which proposed the adoption of the above - mentioned project. The head of the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” proposes to include Kharkovsky instead of Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u53	We can agree with that. In addition, the State Building Committee proposes that a committee of national deputies such as Tradukka be included – one can agree. [[BUT deputat faction]] With regard to the proposal regarding the Kaskov People's Deputy, if he was included in the commission, the principle of proportional representation of the deputies in the commission would be violated. [[deputy faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”]] I don't think we can agree on that. On the committee's review is an appeal by Kharkiv city chief Dobkin and national deputy Lukash regarding the personal interest of national deputies Feldman and Catherinechuk in the task of the Temporary Investigation Commission. People’s deputies were sent letters requesting an explanation. There was no answer. Let us ask the Supreme Council to decide on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u54	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please sit down. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u55	I'd like to give Catherine a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u56	Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u57	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". You know, the resonance of this question, and the kind of passion it's currently talking about, it's only saying one thing that's there to look for. I'm sorry, but the law of the national MP, his duty is to introduce control functions over the activities of the government. And I really have an interest in checking the legality of the local self-government in Kharkiv, because so far we are getting a lot of citizens' petitions today indicating that these rights are being violated. So lying claims that I have a personal interest or that I have lawsuits as a citizen or a national MP to these people are inventions, and I would like them not to be used. The faction will support this decision, and we will give a legal assessment of the activities of the local authorities in Kharkiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u58	Thank you, Mikola Dmitrovich. Kamchat Valeri Grigorovich, Yulia Block Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u59	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kharkiv. Please pass the word to your colleague Laishko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u60	Comrade Easy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u61	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. We propose that the commission from "Our Ukraine" instead of Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich write Harovsky Sergy, and from the "Julia Timoshenko Block" instead of Feldman write Geyman Oleg. Oleg Gayman. With regard to the proposals made by Alexander Sergiyevich Efraemov, those proposals replace the work of this commission, and we disagree with that, and we ask Parliament to support the commission, and to identify the tasks identified in the draft of the relevant decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u62	Thank you. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, regarding this commission, this decision. You know, I have this kind of surprise when I hear all this, listen to the report that was on the committee today. You know, I think you can change the name of the cheese and the name of the city to any other name of the Ukrainian population, and in those cities the competing structures, any business group, the group that they refused, did not give anything, on legal, illegal terms, under any circumstances, exactly the same statements, exactly the same as the same petitions they make. And then I suggest, let's say, instead of the Kharkivsky case, we create such a special investigation commission to verify the anti-constitutional, illegal, anti-national, anti-space, any other action there, without exception the mayors, the city secretaries of Ukraine, regardless of which factions and parties they are. So the accusations that I have now heard, which are being made, have been made repeatedly by everyone, without exception, of Ukraine, by everyone. So the absurdity of this is clearly seen. We see a case where a normal business conflict, when certain business groups that want to take over the city, is being transferred to the Supreme Council, and they're moving to the whole country level. They do the same everywhere against everyone, but in other cities, the members of the Supreme Council are smart enough not to take it all the way to Ukraine. The next moment. I think the BUT faction should thank Michael Dobkin for bringing into Kharkiv what Julia Volodymyrna demanded throughout Ukraine: land auctions. But when the auction began not to be conducted by her people and not by their interests, there was suddenly tremendous indignation. It turns out the law isn't one for all. And the third. Some of the initiators or very active pianists of this decision are people -- and today we've heard them -- who have a rather mediocre attitude towards Kharkiv, but they really want to go in there. So I think it's better to put it down and sort it out at the committee level, not to make yourself laugh.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u64	Thank you. Beave's colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u65	Thank you, Arsenius Petrovich. Dear Arseni Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, there are two moments that I'd like to draw your attention to. First of all, it's a national sink, and it's a regional sink. So on a large scale, I don't know Dobkin, not Feldman, not Kernes, but I'm going to say that on a large scale, that's exactly what it is. Now for the personal composition of the commission. I think it's completely wrong to include in a committee of people who were drawn to criminal responsibility for the theft of state property by fraud. I can call my family names. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then, we have the next order of adoption of this decree. I would very much like us to create temporary commissions of inquiry, give them the opportunity to work, and then here I'm convinced there's going to be a heated discussion about the work of these temporary commissions of inquiry. There is the offer of a colleague of Ephraim, there is the offer of a colleague of Láška to make changes in the personal composition of the decision. So first I put the vote on the ground, and then I get 150 votes. Next. It takes 226 to make an appropriate amendment to this decree. I will put to the vote first the amendment of colleague Ephraim, then the amendment of colleague Lachka. And then, when it's voted, whether the amendments have been voted on, in general. I'm basing 1115 rulings on the city of Kharkiv. Please vote. [[10:44:33]] For 252 On the basis of a decree adopted. Next. I put to the vote the amendments made by Alexander Sergiyovitch Efraemov concerning the personal composition. [[10:44:58]] For-40 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote the amendments made by the People's Deputy Lazko regarding the composition of personnel. Please vote. [[10:45:20.]] For 226 Decision taken. I'm betting on a total vote of 1115 with amendments. Please vote. Peter Mikolaiovich, what names? Let's vote, fellows, now let's get our names straight. Please vote. [[10:45:47]] For 223 Decision taken. ‘For’ — 223 The factions, please. Decision adopted, 1115. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Short-term procedure, 1137. National Deputy Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich. Please. Colleagues, I'm asking for no more than two minutes under the Rules, as it's supposed, because I'm going to have to turn off the microphone. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished Arsenia Petrovich! Your opinion is proposed by a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the adoption of unlawful decisions by the city of Chernevsky Leonid Mikhajlovich, the head of the city of Kiev, and by officials of local self-government and executive authorities in Kiev. The project proposes to create this temporary commission of inquiry. The basis for its creation was the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation by the Kiev city chief Czernovetsk Leonid Mikhailovich and the officials of the local authorities. We believe that the interests of Kiev’s city chief Czernovetsk and individual officials of local self - government and executive authorities in Kiev run counter to the interests of the territorial community of Kiev, as evidenced by their decisions. One example of such decisions is an unwarranted increase in housing and utility tariffs, which was prevented only by the principled position of a member of the constituency. However, the most powerful examples of violations of the law are the unlawful decisions to sell land to the territorial community of Kiev. For example, on October 31, 2006, 100 plots were sold in one night, each of which took two minutes for a city council session. The results of such a vote and the protocols are still hidden from society. Another example of the sale of Kyiv land was the session of the Kyiv City Council on October 1, 2007, in which more than 400 lands were allocated in one day. In our view, all the facts described above require careful investigation and an adequate response to such wrong decisions. Together with the Committee on Rules, we made a unified decree, a decree made by the national deputy of Ukraine Miroshnichenko, a friend by the national deputies Portnov and Knazević. We invite you to make a decision on a unified decision proposed by the Committee on Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u68	Thank you. National Deputy Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich Andrew Volodymyrovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You just heard my colleague Andrew Portnova. He is one of the authors of a similar draft ruling on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry in Kiev. You probably all have the text of this decree, and it refers to clearly defined subjects of responsibility, namely, that there is a violation on the part of the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council. Of course, we leave the right for our colleagues to make such draft decisions. At the same time, I've made another draft decision, in which the question is essentially the same. That is, we need to investigate the accusations that are being made against the address and the Kiev City Council and the Kiev City Council. But at the same time, we have no right at the level of introduction and the creation of the Temporary Investigation Commission to identify the guilty. That's why my draft ruling foresees that we should first objectively investigate the situation in Kiev and only as a result of such an investigation to determine who is to blame, who is not to blame, and who is to blame. The other one. Most important, when we talk about objectivity, we need to work in comparison. That is, for five years, it was compared, and how it was distributed and managed, in the city of Kiev, as property was shared, as the land was shared. If we see that in comparison, let's say, with the previous authority, there are substantial violations, there are no questions, we're going to figure out what these violations are. If that is not the case, then we have no reason to blame. One thing I'd like to say is that my colleague Portnowy and I had a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u70	I'm asking you to finish the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u71	The discussion lasted on the committee and as a compromise was reached, the committee made a third decision and we are both withdrawing our draft rulings to ensure maximum consolidation of our session hall. For the investigation to take place objectively, impartially, and parliament’s reaction was, for example, principled but not biased. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u72	Thank you. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, respectable Arsenius Petrovich! To avoid further discussion on this issue, there were two draft decrees, number 1-37 and number 1-37-1. We invited the drafters to unite them in one, and they agreed and agreed on all issues. Bill 1137-d has emerged and is proposed to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u74	My colleagues, thank you. Legally, according to the Rules, I have to take the next approach. Alexander Sergiyovich, thank you. We're going two, two, no. I'm asking you to sign up for two, two, against, and then a procedural decision to discuss. Bev Valeriy Ananiyovich, Communists, please. Turn on Bea's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u75	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I'm just a little help. The point is that the city chief of Kiev, Mr. Chernewicki, is now practicing the following directions of work, taking the land into separate structures, including state structures, and transferring it to the commercial structure of his son - in - law, whose family is Suprunenko. Moreover, he came to the point that even a hectare of land was taken away from the Supreme Council and from the letters of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Please consider this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u76	Thank you. Grimczak Yuri Mikolaiovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u77	Please pass the word to the Kulikov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u78	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I would like to support a fellow communist and say that what is happening in Kiev right now is unbearable for the Chinese, impatient for the authorities, the Kiev is the capital of Ukraine. It's embarrassing. Already transferred to private property and the General Intelligence Agency, the land where it is located. As far as possible, maybe this country doesn't need an exploration of how we can live in this country, it's not a capital, it's some kind of cosmic clan. I ask you to vote in favour of this order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u80	Thank you. Hara Vasil Georgievovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u81	Mikhail Vasilevich, please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u82	Take your seats. Mikhail Vasilovich, you've been handed the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u83	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished people's deputies, but we must have some sort of order with these commissions. I think it is appropriate for the initiators of the commission to be the opposition, because we have no authority over us. With regard to the majority, the whole power of the majority, given the frontal clearance, when even cleaners began to change, is simply ashamed to create another commission. On the other hand, on which we set up a commission, we set up a commission for the person who carried our Ukraine's party ticket on his chest, went on the lists, so you may first be inside the party that you are doing. Maybe you'll do a party investigation first, pick up who you want on the lists, then pick up who you want, and then cry all over the country that they didn't take, and they're running away from you. Yesterday, they were disgraced throughout the country when they went to vote in favour of parliamentary integrity, and the cod coalition was disgraced throughout the country, unable to vote. This suggests that we may be able to help you figure out inside life. That's the first one. Yeah. And so, you're carrying your intra-party pain with our Ukraine party tickets and you want us to participate in your intra-party rallies. Let's find out inside the party. This is your party member who's been on your lists, and you're dragging us into this mess is your problem. As for the commission, instead of Sivkovic, since he is involved in other commissions, we propose to Lisov and to add Makienko and Illashov to our quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u84	Thank you. Kirilchuk Evgen Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u85	Thank you. Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street. I don't mind this decision, but I want to deny the proposals made by Miroshnichenko. You can't, if there's some excuse for breaking the law, then I suggest you set up another commission to justify these violations. That doesn't sound good. But I give Bondarenko my word to my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u86	Bondarenko's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u87	Turn it on, please. Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear colleagues! Radio listeners, especially sneezes! I want to say that what is being done today in Kiev is not subject to any common sense and analysis. Because the systemic violations that exist today in the seemingly self-sustaining, sort of, Chinese-delegated organ have grown to such an extent and scale that it threatens Ukraine's national security, because it is the capital. What we know is that the land is captured by 3,000 hectares in one session is what we know. But this is a very specific authority in Kiev that is overseeing new legislation. According to this year's budget, we have no one at the level of local self-government to remove land if they did not pass through the auction. So what's going on in Kiev? They take the park with their rakes, sell it as property, and then drive the park under the box. This is what is done today in the roadside office, where the pescobases seem so vast, there is a security booth on the way out, and it is privatized by five acres [5 ha] of land under it. And that's how we see today how this power rotates even under those clear laws written by Kabmin. So we must immediately stop this vacchanal in Kiev. I would like to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have three bills under consideration: 1137, 1137-1, 1137-d. I'm supposed to put them in line, take one off if I'm right. If the first one picks up, then all the other alternatives are taken off. Wait a minute! That is, the committee took a decision on a unified decision. So I propose to put a united vote. United with a "d"? Alexander Sergiyovich, this is a combined 1137-d, if I'm not mistaken, right? The changes I have to put to the vote, you give me the letter and I'll make the appropriate changes to your quota. You don't have to put that to a vote. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the vote on the ground and, in general, the harmonized 1137-d bill on the establishment of the TSC in Kiev. Please vote. [[10:59:17]] For 248 Thank you. To - 248. Decision taken. Please show by factions. It's two minutes' worth of vote. Please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u89	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the dignitaries. I ran into the city head office in 2006 and got a fourth result because the election was faked and everyone saw it, everything went to court. And then in the courts, when we asked one of them to count the votes, you know that brutal things happened. So I'd like the citizens of Kiev today, who know about the facts of the violations and violations of the law, to report to the commission of inquiry, first of all. And secondly, to expect the rule of law to be restored sooner or later in the country and in Kiev as its capital. So I think this vote is indicative of the restoration of the rule of law in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u90	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u91	Thank you. Communist faction, Martinyuk. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, my fellow Members, I would ask that for the transcript and in order for those who made this proposal, you should repeat once again, Arsenija Petrovich, that the proposals made by the factions in exchange should they come to you in an official manner, that is, if they do so on behalf of the factions in writing, so that the final regulation will be taken into account when the decision is issued by your signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u92	Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u93	Kulikov, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. First of all, I would like to say that Mr Czernovecki has never been a member of “Our Ukraine”. Secondly, I want to say that we never are. He wasn't in the party. We would never have wandered along with Mr. Chernewsky, and that was the requirement of our party when we fought in these elections, that Kiev should change power, give Kiev honest authority, that is, with this man in one block, we were never in the same party.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's time for the performance. The next issue of the agenda is decree 1405 on the creation of the TSC for the Minister of Interior Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. This is Giga Mikola Vasilovich reporting. Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u95	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! Your point is to propose a draft parliamentary decision to establish, in accordance with article 89, part 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council, to investigate the facts highlighted in the numerous media regarding the possible violation of current legislation and human rights by the Minister of Internal Affairs, Yuri Lucenk. The last drop in this was, of course, an incident on January 18, this year between Minister Lucenko and the city head, the Kiev City Head of Chernevski. This case requires not only a legal evaluation by the law enforcement authorities, but a political and legal review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Also published on the Internet, for example on July 25, 2007, is the article “The Corruption Temptation of Yuri Lucenko”, 26.07 “Delo Luchenko”, which refers to the possible involvement of the Minister of Interior in the corruption scheme, which was intended to be illegally represented in September 2006 by the company “Ukrainian New Telecommunications” of the monopoly on mobile communications to the departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. 29.08.2007 on the web-based publication “The South East League’s KID” entitled “Lucenko has become a flying terminator”, which refers to the unique use of a service aircraft in his own needs by Yuri Lucenko during his tenure as Minister of Interior and the possible imposition of a loss budget in a particularly large way. These and other publications represent a social interest, cannot remain out of public attention, require fair and impartial investigation and an appropriate political and legal assessment by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Your point is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u97	Your point is to determine the number of members of the commission by one representative of 15 national deputies and at least one representative of each parliamentary faction. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u98	Thank you. We have an emergency procedure. No questions asked. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u99	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! This question was discussed in the committee. The authors were invited to change the name of what they had done. There were no other suggestions. The committee therefore decided to support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u100	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Two-for-two-again. Krimczak Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u102	Please give me your word. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u103	Stretovic, Christian Democratic Union, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! In this room, the theory was that if the committees had not considered, prepared the appropriate submissions, we should not even consider it. A committee on law enforcement at its meeting on February 20 discussed the matter, but a letter came from the Attorney General's Office to investigate a criminal case that everyone knows about. And the Attorney General's Office has asked everyone not to create similar committees and not put appropriate public pressure on decisions that may be made as a result of the investigation. Nevertheless, the question arose in the order of the day. In this regard, we would like to state that, in line with the principle of “Law One for All”, the People's Self-Defense Group will support the creation of such a Temporary Commission of Inquiry to put a dot once and for all. In doing so, we note that when today's parliament and today's majority were formed, it did not create a temporary commission of inquiry to verify the activities of Minister Tsushka, Kornienka and others, considering this to be shameful. In general, we find it abnormal when a person proposes to create a temporary special commission and to appoint himself head of this special commission. There is the idea that there is a personal motive, a personal vendetta. I understand that this has a public resonance, as is explained. And when I want to create a commission myself, investigate and bring it to clean water, at least it looks unfair and inconsistent, but it's a person who wears a general form. 3 In this regard, I urge you, Arsenija Petrovich, to put the matter to a vote, to make the appropriate decision, and for six months, as the Rules provide, to listen to the conclusions of the interim commission of inquiry on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u104	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u105	With regard to this commission, I would like to immediately caution against two points that have just been made in the previous speaker. First. This commission can't be considered a pressure on an investigation, because it's not going to duplicate the following organs, it's not going to replace the work of the Attorney General. There is a task that, among other tasks, the commission should investigate: first, it is to check and establish, in fact, a complete list of the abuses of Yuri Lucenka and they have no number. And now that you have some memories, these are just separate milestones. Obviously, you can talk about hundreds of different episodes that someone finally has to prepare and submit to the Attorney General’s Office. This is no pressure. Next, with regard to this case. We need to finally determine why, after such actions, which are open and investigated, this person is still in office today, why is this person still in office, why is he still not out of office, or at least not suspended, suspended from his duties, when, in other cases, in similar situations, people are arrested, detained and so on? Therefore, under such circumstances, the answer to these questions and some decision on the matter may be given only by the parliamentary commission of inquiry. This cannot be done by any other body in the Ukrainian State. And that's why we think it's really necessary. We can now see from the results of the vote whether, in fact, the principle of “law one for all” is important for those who claim to do so. If a group of single-party deputies, Yuri Lucenka, supports this decision, I think it'll be a good step on their part, and God forbid that this goes on for the future. And a stupid example is contagious. I would very much like us, the commission, to examine or to see what is happening in the press right now, there's information that, after the debut, Yuri Lucenka has increased the number of beatings of Ukrainian citizens by militia personnel, whether it is so or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u106	Kurpil Stepan Volodymyrovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u107	I'd like to give Yavorovsky a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u108	Yavorowski's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u109	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, we've left so much fog here that I don't think there's any truth behind it. You know, I would support and vote in favour of the draft of this decision if there was such a point in it to carry out an investigative experiment, and to do it again, let's say, within the Supreme Council or in the rostrum there and so on. And then we would have, of course, material, we would have seen it all happen. Why did Lucenko strike a man with dignity and a man with a concussion? I don't know where this person is anymore, where the centers are, so to speak. Because of this, you see, stand up and vote, the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” of this smile will not support it. The case is in the Attorney General's Office, and there are professionals out there who are going to investigate it, what happened there, we're not going to vote for it, we just don't think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, about the vote. There's still Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. I only ask you, Peter Mikolaiovich, to press the buttons in time. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u111	I pressed the button. Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to support this project for the following reasons. First, the Supreme Council cannot be absent from the fact that there was a beating of an officer in the Ukrainian Presidential Authority building during the formal meeting of the National Security Council. Lucenko’s desire to have land in the city of Kiev and, of course, the contradictions that arose with the Mayor of Chernevski was a reason for the fight. This is due to the fact that the 2000 newspaper objectively published material containing specific allegations, specific facts regarding the previous activities of the Lucenka post, and they provided a basis for his resignation from the previous post of Minister of the Interior. The facts of the beating give us reason to believe that this is an egregious fact, since it allows other representatives of the law-enforcement bodies to act with impunity, including in detention facilities, mass facts have to be suppressed by non-legal means. The faction of the Compartium of Ukraine insists that this be the subject of serious discussion and study, because such persons cannot be in such high positions. And the last. The Company's faction has proposed and has already registered its proposals for the establishment of a Balogé commission. You know that the Supreme Council has already made statements from Uzhgrad in part of its activities. I turn to all factions. I would like to propose to this commission that, at our next meeting, we adopt a special commission of inquiry into the facts relevant to Balogé, because the highest officials in the State are not entitled to hold these posts when it comes to relations with the various commercial structures and the highest level of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u112	Thank you. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" asked for a replica, as it was said: "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please. Roman Zvaric. Please read the Rules carefully. The Rules read: “Name or faction”. We need to read the Rules more carefully. “Name or faction”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the hall was bugged. The sonic statement, which we believe is offensive to our political power because it was said that Leonid Chernewsky is carrying the party ticket of our political power, that is, the People's Union of Ukraine. We think it's offensive to our faction, so we definitely want to make a statement. Leonid Chernewsky has never been or is not a member of our party.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, brief information. First of all, it's about, in fact, investigating a criminal case. I, by the way, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine gave evidence to the prosecutor of the city of Kyiv in connection with a criminal case. And really, it's not entirely logical to look at this issue at TSC. But the TSC is in place, and in this way we will definitely vote. The other one. I wanted to refer once again to the statement made by the Minister of Internal Affairs, who insists on the TSC voting on it, and he points out that he is confident of the legality of his activities and insists on voting and on the appropriate cities. That's why I think it's going to be right -- I'm turning to the People's Self-Defense faction -- it's going to be the right way to make a decision about the vote. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the basis and in general – 1405 – on the creation of the TSK by the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich. Please vote. [[11:15:39]] For 219 Decision taken. TSK created. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, next. Please show by factions. The next issue of the agenda should be: consideration of the issue of amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the removal of parliamentary immunity. That's the question that needs to be addressed right now. We have a project by Kirilenk Vyacheslav Anatoliyovich and Kirilenk Ivan Grigorovich. We have a project that was introduced by the faction of the Party of Regions. Sit down, please! There's a statement from two factions -- a faction of Communists and a faction of the Party of the Regions -- about a break of 20 minutes. According to the Rules, I have to announce this recess, but I am convinced that this break will end with two factions from the parliamentary rostrum, not with the blockade of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you. Please, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, 20 minutes to recess is over. I'm asking you to take all your seats. We now have to go to 1375, 1375-1 of the Bill of Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. [[on the limitation of parliamentary immunity]] Now, a moment, colleagues, the entrance from two factions. Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich and the faction of the party. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, one of the two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u116	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to inform you about two factions: the Communist faction and the faction of the Party of the Regions took a break. I am not tired of repeating the point, and I would ask each of the national deputies to take and look at the Rules and see a special article that has been specially adopted for the standards of acceptance of changes to the Constitution. Based on our practice, which everyone is willing to criticize, especially those who insist on this issue today, we have adopted this chapter specifically when we accept the amendments to the Rules in order to ensure that the issue of amending the Constitution is followed by a particularly reliable and complex detailed procedure. I'm sorry, you can't jump in here. And so I would like to remind you again, please look at the 141st article, the Supreme Council's consideration of the inclusion of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine in the agenda. We turned it on today, violating the 141st article. For the 141st article states: “the discussion on the introduction of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine into the agenda of the Supreme Council and the order of its continuation shall be carried out in accordance with Article 30 of this Rules. A short discussion procedure in this case cannot be applied.” So the question of making changes to the Constitution about the inclusion in the agenda of the day session cannot be included with other issues. It should look separately at the full process: the initials' report, the answers to the questions, the profile committee's report, the answer to the questions, the discussion of the complete process from factions, from the national deputies and only then the decision-making process. But one more thing is most important. Here our colleagues say that the trial will only take a few minutes: it has been placed in the agenda and immediately referred to the Constitutional Court. So please see 142 articles. A 142th article of the Rules, entitled “Preparation of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine before prior approval of its adoption by the Supreme Council”. I've got three minutes. “The drafting of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine for prior approval by its Supreme Council or adoption shall be carried out only after the relevant bill has been incorporated into the agenda.” That is, even if we include him today, we should send him back to the committee, last at least a month to consider essentially to refer him to the Constitutional Court. And the last. The two factions are offering this question if we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u117	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u118	If we now come to the question of including this issue in the agenda, consider it in accordance with regulation 1375-p, that is, in accordance with article 37 of the Constitution, we propose, sorry, the Rules, we propose to conduct this vote by changing the voting style, namely: getting up. And everyone will vote in person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u119	Thank you, colleagues. Please, colleagues, step out of the faction procedure. One minute at a time. We must approach, fellow Members, the removal of the MP's in touch. Whether you want to or not, you have to do this. Please, let's sign up. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u120	I'd like to hand over Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u121	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u122	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respected colleagues, respected voters, the Communist faction has repeatedly demanded that the Constitution be amended with regard to the removal of integrity from all officials: the President, the People's Deputies, the Judges and the Bureaucrat. We have made this proposal several times during the work of the working group on the initiative of the President when early elections were being considered. At the time, BUT and Our Ukraine were categorically opposed to making these changes to the Constitution. Therefore, we would like there to be no virtual cover that the President and the other officials, including the judges, remain inviolable. We propose to consider a bill amending the Constitution, in which, from all persons, i.e. the President, from the people's deputies and from the judges, the integrity is removed. The faction would then vote and support those initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u123	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, today I would like to remind our fellow MPs from an orange coalition that does not really exist, that they went with the election slogan “The Law – For All”. As a result, they should vote in favour of our bill, which provides for the lifting of parliamentary immunity from the President of Ukraine and from all deputies, without the exception of senior officials of Ukraine. This is what the people are waiting for, not some half-time method, not half-time action, and not to cover up the real purpose with some other twists that our non-existent coalition colleagues are offering to society today. And, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, we are very well versed here, and we are not always. I'm sorry, we need your comments on whether or not we should vote. The MPs themselves, as you are, are determined how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u125	Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u127	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u128	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, well, we are witnessing the repeated reluctance of the Party of Regions and Communists to cancel the parliamentary immunity under any circumstances. Now it's either a regular vote or a stand-up vote. I can point out to our opponents that the Rules clearly allow us to immediately initiate the procedure for amending the Ukrainian Constitution and to begin the procedure for lifting parliamentary immunity. And 141 articles, in particular, say that after this bill has been discussed, Parliament includes it in the agenda and at the same time calls on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach its conclusion, as provided for in the Constitution. And now for the vote by standing up. Please, Arseny Petrovich, give me 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u129	All right, well, until it's finished, please turn on the microphone to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u130	And now, dear colleagues, for the vote of standing up. I want voters to know about that, by the way. It is clear that you can come up with any obstacles in your unwillingness to undo the parliamentary immunity that regionals and communists demonstrate because they have grown with this inviolability. But if you want to change the voting procedure now, please also vote by standing up, raising your hand and visual observation, and then we'll think about everything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u131	Thank you. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! I will not be doing pre-election or post-election propaganda right now, but I would like to refer once again to article 84 of the Constitution, which clearly states that voting takes place in person. Of course, people can now also be spoken of as being pious and saying, “Who wants to, who doesn’t want to undo the inviolability? ” But I don't think he wants to cancel those who are not in the session room today. I'm talking to journalists, please have digital cameras, video cameras, film cameras, please take down all the rows and see where there's free space. I'm guessing it's 60 or 70 people. And that's why the Lithuanian Block faction, without arguing, but now I'm asking you to record. [[We'll speak about our position on the elimination of intact, it'll be very reasoned, you'll see]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u133	Thank you. Finish, calm down, let the Zarubinski finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u134	I'm very calm because I'm saying the right things, you're talking about this, especially Article 84 of the Constitution, part three. So I'm asking you to see how real people are today and obviously you have to remove the missing cards at today's meeting of the National Deputies, because the changes to the Constitution are really very serious things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u135	Upper Sergei Petrovich, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u136	Please give the floor to national deputy Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u137	Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear Arseniy Petrovich, your esteemed colleagues, of course, have to start, start from making changes to the Constitution, this is definitely our faction standing in these positions. But as for the procedure in question, the rise is not predicted at all, as Adam Ivanovich put it, as a vote. Voting is possible only by raising a hand, and it is only in cases where there are technical obstacles or cannot be voted by a roll-call vote using an electronic system. As far as this is concerned, it is possible to change the voting procedure if there is no defined procedure, in this case, when changes to the Constitution are made, it is an open-ended roll-call vote by electronic system. So in order to change it, you need to move away from the procedure by 50 votes, not 150 votes, but one vote and 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u139	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u140	Thank you. Therefore, in this case, the voting procedure can only be changed in accordance with article 50, where ad hoc procedures require 226 votes, and there is no alternative in this case. Because the 47th article, part two, provides that amendments to the Constitution, as well as any other procedure for the consideration of draft laws, are provided for by a roll-call vote through an electronic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'd like your permission to generalize the proposals that were. Please, the Communists want a replica because they were mentioned. One minute of replication. Who Will Be the Communists? Cowchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u142	Respectable voters! I want you to understand clearly what's going on in this room today. It is clear that the President seeks absolute power, the dictatorship, and the constitutional process is also being launched illegally today. Today, he seeks to crush all the executives, so he has only one moment left — like at the time of the adoption of the new Constitution — a deridan of the Constitution, how to shut his mouth to the people's deputies. Of the 7,000 people who today have parliamentary immunity, 450 members of the people so that you know the order of the figures. This is about if we're going to a major decision, then let's clean up everyone. and take off all the officials who have it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u143	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! It's a purely formal legal approach to making changes to the Ukrainian Constitution. We have no right to violate any of the articles, either the Rules or the Constitution when adopting and initiating the process of amending the Constitution. Because if we make a legal error from the first step, it will lead to a legal collapse, including in the final stage. In view of this, what is once again offered? 141. Article 141 of the Rules provides for a special order of discussion and inclusion in the agenda. We are following a full procedure, first we are discussing two bills -- a bill introduced by the Kirilenko Vejacheslav Anatoliyovich and Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich; a bill tabled by the opposition -- if I am not mistaken there: Lavrinovich, Lukas, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, Ljovczyn and Miroshničenko. The two bills differ in the following: the first bill on MPs, the second bill has a broader formula for other officials who have immunity. In doing so, after our discussion, I would like to make an important point: even if a bill is being passed, that is no reason to withdraw from the consideration of an alternative bill. We're still looking at it, there's a specific norm. So I ask you, after a break, to come to the next decision. We have 30 minutes off. I welcome you. What do you mean, it's not? From 12 to 12.30, comrades, how come there's no break? Please, from 12 to 12.30, we have a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u144	Well, then I'm going to have to welcome women to give the treaty to political ambitions. Okay, that's what's gonna happen. I apologize to the women. I'm going to check the Rules again. Please don't shout. I'm talking to you. Peter Mikolaiovich, ask your own people not to shout. Thank you. So once again, I'm saying that we need to move on to a full-time agenda discussion procedure. Since the simplified procedure is not provided for in article 141 of the two bills. After the discussion, you will decide on the voting procedure, on the voting mechanism. But we are now obliged to begin this process. So I suggest we start discussing the relevant bills. On the rostrum, I invite Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko. Law 1375.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u145	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, distinguished voters. Today, as promised by President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine, the faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. The entire coalition of democratic forces, our colleagues from BUT, we are starting a procedure to undo parliamentary immunity. We believe that this process is long-awaited and sustained in society, because we will finally get to the point where the Ukrainian people's deputies will be representatives of the people, not representatives of a closed caste, which often works only in their own interests. The absolution of immunity in Ukraine made it impossible for national deputies to be held criminally accountable and resulted in their impunity, political corruption, and permissiveness. Unwarranted development of the rules of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, in the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Rules of Parliament came into conflict with one of the fundamental provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine according to which citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law, part 1 of article 24. The legal regime, which was formed instead of providing the MP with freedom of expression and voting in Parliament, put it over the law, granted unlimited immunity and privileges, including materiality, at the expense of the State budget. The need for changes to article 80 of the Ukrainian Constitution on guarantees of parliamentary immunity has long been an urgent need, but from one political point of view, the adoption of these changes has been constantly halted. This law, which is imposed by two factions of the coalition, is intended to bring the institution of parliamentary immunity in Ukraine into line with international legal standards to remove contradictions in the current Constitution and legislation of Ukraine and to ensure equality of citizens before the law. A comparative analysis of the current and proposed coalition of the democratic forces of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine allows us to conclude that the scope of parliamentary immunity in the proposed text in the context of modern constitutionalism has been substantially reduced and brought into line with the required standards of world parliamentaryism regarding the institution of representative immunity. The bill proposes to exclude part one of the first article 80 of the current edition of the Ukrainian Constitution. The bill is based on the fact that the constitutions of many countries and more than anything else in Europe do not contain a general norm that guarantees of parliamentary immunity, such as the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Poland, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Iceland and many others. The bill proposes part two of article 80 of the current law on parliamentary immunity. the identity to be kept as full as possible in the proposed edition as part of the first article. It is meant that this rule only one part that will be preserved guarantees freedom of speech and expression, parliamentary vote and its organs, and foresees that, in connection with Parliament’s purely political activity, the MP cannot be held accountable. Thus, the preservation of one part of the 80th article of the Constitution cancels all arguments by opponents of the abolition of parliamentary immunity, which are based on the fact that this, he said, could be used for political persecution, because we leave the MP in our office, as it is consistent with world practice, freedom of expression, freedom of judgment and evaluation in Parliament, and for these assessments and judgements, if it is not slander, the MP is not politically responsible. At the same time, it removes situations that are in fact now the basis of a parliamentary immunity that provides the MPs, not freedom, but full impunity from society and public opinion. It is deleted that the Ukrainian national deputies cannot be without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be held criminally liable, detained or arrested. The deletion of these provisions means that without the consent of the Parliament of the People's Deputies as well as every citizen of Ukraine, this is the achievement in practice of the rule that the law is one for all. First, to bring administrative responsibility, namely: to impose a fine, to apply correctional work or administrative arrest; to carry out an operational investigation or to commit a criminal offence; to take precautionary measures, including in order to prevent attempts to escape the investigation; to prevent the establishment of the truth in a criminal case; or to continue criminal activity. Conduct investigation activities, such as arrest and interrogation as suspects; search, extract on grounds and in accordance with the prescribed law. The implementation of the bill after its adoption of amendments to other laws does not need to be implemented. These standards, which will now become possible in the application of national MPs, I did not impose them to drive fear into the MPs ’ corps. They will apply after the change in the Constitution of each of us. But surely. These standards are when the MP becomes the same achievement. reachable for the law, like any ordinary citizen, they are acceptable and desirable for every honest national MP. For those who have come to Parliament not to defend the interests of their own clan, their own business, or their own oligarchic group, but to come to Parliament solely to create laws in the interests of the country, the economy, society and people. Of course, those deputies will only win from making such changes to the Constitution. Moreover, when we are finally with you after the Constitutional Court and after the 300 vote, we can believe and expect that even the future composition of the House of Deputies will consist mainly of professional politicians and professional legislators, of those who, every day and every minute, engage not in lobbyism for their oligarchic groups or their clan, but in the creation of bills for the benefit of the whole society, not even according to what political power they represent. All of this will in the long run ensure that Ukrainian Parliamentarians approve the amendments to article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the lifting of parliamentary immunity. Of course, they will now both speak and vote against those who, contrary to the promises they have made in the last elections to the people, will vote against the abolition of parliamentary immunity, because they understand that now the possibility of hiding from the law in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament will be significantly reduced. But we are convinced that with each vote, such people will become fewer and fewer. And the discussion that the lifting of unlimited parliamentary immunity will pave the way for political persecution seems to have no bearing on any criticism at all. Because now, starting in 2004, unlike times in the country, newspapers don't close, TV channels don't close, other political positions are not persecuted, opposition forces are not banned, in general, from any political force, and everyone has the right to speak freely, both in Parliament and beyond. Finally, the democratic revolution of late 2004. And now for the development of the nation's conquests that took place during this popular revolution, we are introducing a bill to abolish parliamentary immunity and we call upon all colleagues to support this bill. After the changes we make, it will be said: “The national deputies of Ukraine do not have legal responsibility for the results of the vote or vote in Parliament and its organs, except for the responsibility of insult or slander.” [[Article 80]] All the other standards that provided for the caste from the MP's corps are being annulled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u146	5 minutes: questions – answers. Please sign up. Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u147	Clearly, this project will be supported by the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I only have one question. Please tell me, what legal responsibility do we have for slander? We changed the criminal code and deleted the corresponding article many years ago. In general, the right law and, of course, we will give up all our votes for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u148	We have indeed rectified some of the rules of the relevant codes, but it still preserves the right of every citizen to appeal to the court, including the National MP's address. Thus, in the Constitution since 1996, when all the standards that applied to slander and insults in general have been reflected in this norm. We do not consider it necessary to cancel it, since we believe that every citizen can express himself, including by appreciating his or her own address as an insult or slander, and by taking appropriate action, including with regard to the protection of his or her rights in court. It's a generally accepted democratic norm, and we'd like it to remain in the current constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u149	Arjewitin Stanislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u150	Please hand over Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u151	Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u152	Lilia Grigorovich, faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Highly respected Viácheslav Anatoliyevich, no doubt the question that is being considered in Parliament today, is urgent, and the faction shares the position that it is necessary to put our parliamentary integrity to European standards. By asking you questions, I hope that it will be heard not only by our electorate but also by all the honest deputies who, after the discussion, will test the integrity of the national MPs chosen by our people. What a terrible service this immodest parliamentary integrity has served Ukraine. After all, Parliament has become essentially a place where people who sought protection from the law “flighted” and one law for all. Judge for yourself. In 2002, the adopted “Medicines ” Act was adopted in the first reading and is not yet available. Ukraine is a drug dump, and we can't protect our citizens. We cannot implement the Law on General Health Insurance. We can't accept the Tax Code in the end. Why? But because Parliament has become a club of interest, not a club.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Lila, for your question. Of course, I share your concern, and the entire Coalition of Democratic Forces thinks that it is necessary, after the long-term blockade of the rostrum by our opponents, to now come to a concrete solution to the specific problems of ordinary people. But it was during the last election campaign that people demanded that MPs, and more precisely, that candidates from all of them, without the exception of political forces, cancel the parliamentary immunity. And then, as we all recall, this initiative has been joined by all the political forces, including those who are now members of the parliamentary opposition. So our faction will certainly follow the commitment we made to the electorate, which President Yushchenko made a clear statement about a year ago -- we will cancel the parliamentary immunity. And to participate in this noble process, we call upon colleagues from opposition factions as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u154	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u155	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear reporter, I don't think anyone needs to be convinced that the password, and in fact it's not a slogan, it's an important very social category -- the law is one for all -- is relevant, correct, correct on all sides, on all sides. There was a sound in the hall. The statistics show that in Ukraine today some 7,000 people are not equal to 46 million citizens of Ukraine before the law. Among them are 450 deputies. But once again, I want to say, seven thousand people. What is your attitude as a citizen, as a deputy on the elimination or limitation of immunity for all seven thousand persons who, in fact, violate their status, the slogan “Law One for All”? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u156	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. We understand you in the same way and support the slogan “The One Law for All”. We look forward to a positive vote by your faction on the bill we have tabled to amend the Constitution. Of course, we should not stop in the way of undoing the intactness and developing that course. If you are talking about seven thousand people, surely this should not be limited to just the number of 450 deputies in the Ukrainian Parliament. Because people also talk about other categories of people who, in their view, do not fully exercise the right of inviolability. But if you want to ask me in advance about the inviolability of the President of Ukraine and the ambiguous answer, you won't hear it. We say definitely "no" to undo the inviolability of the President of Ukraine, because this is the head of state, this is the head of state, and this is the only figure that is publicly elected. As for the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Constitution provides.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u157	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u158	Let me finish with that question. Dear colleagues, your right to make any kind of vision, but we have given you a clear position. If you think we're going to be July, you're wrong. We stand clear in the interests of citizens, and the head of state is the guarantor of state sovereignty -- that is irrelevant to you, and to us archivally -- of territorial integrity, human rights and freedoms and citizen. Thus, people demand that this institution be protected by inviolability. If you would like another, please apply the special procedure already provided for in the Ukrainian Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u159	Thank you, Vjačeslav Anatoliyovich, thank you. Please sit down. Thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. I'm asking Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, me. [[B in m in s a l in]] You have the same project. Indeed, Ivan Grigorovich. So Viacheslav Anatoliyovich has already said everything. Although I wanted to give the floor to John Grigorovich. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I just don't see Lavrinovich. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u160	Is it Lavrinovich? Alexander Volodymyrovich, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u161	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Arseny Petrovich, I've been paying attention to your smile. Since we were working with you in the government, we studied the experience of European countries, and you first told me: “What is it we want to mix the world with our proposals for the total elimination of the immunity of parliamentarians?” I understand that there are political campaigns, I understand that there is a need to win voters' sympathy during election campaigns. I understand that it is necessary to do the utmost to ensure that the functioning State has laws that are being enforced, implemented by all without exception, and that there is responsibility for all, without exception, in a variety of ways, for those who transgress the norm of the law. And when it comes to the availability of immunity, not the immunity that Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich Kirilenko spoke of, it exists in the vast majority of the world and, virtually, in all European countries. These are generally accepted things and because there was an attempt to say that we are now leading to a European level, I wasn't going to do this, but I'm probably going to read literally now from the Constitution of several European countries, members of the European Union. For example, this is the Federal Republic of Germany. An MP may be drawn, drawn to responsibility, or arrested for criminal activity only with the consent of the Bundestag, except in cases of detention during the commission of such action or during the following day. That's the part about the touch. There is a member of the European Union like Italy. No member of parliament can be brought to criminal liability without the permission of the chamber to which he belongs, be arrested, subjected to personal or home search, or otherwise deprived of the will, except in the case of detention at the crime scene, to which mandatory arrest is foreseen. I can continue here, the Russian Federation, the Czech Republic, Albania and so on. This can be listed in many countries to understand that we are not going to do what we do today in the countries of the European Union. The offer is quite different. And when it comes to taking care of the implementation of Ukraine's laws and the fact that the law was one to all, you should also mention the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism and mention that three times in this House of Parliament came the submission of the Attorney-General to allow consent to be brought to criminal responsibility and the arrest of national MPs. If you have forgotten, I will remind you that in two of these cases, the Supreme Council voted in favour of breaking the case. One was arrested, the other left outside Ukraine. I'm not going to call them names, I think you all remember them. By the third name, which also today for reasons of ethics on the eve of the festival I will not call, the decision was not taken, it was not put to the vote in the session hall. It was brought back to the Public Prosecutor's Office after a review of the Rules of Procedure. I mean, there was this one case. And I think that when we understand who this is about, we don't have to scream very loudly today that we're for the integrity to be eliminated. We have only one official in Ukraine, for which no step can be taken, no action to hold Ukraine responsible for violating the laws of Ukraine, any action. This person is the President of Ukraine. Whatever he does, he has absolute immunity from everything. If you think that today the head of state who is elected by direct vote and the deputies are elected in some other way, they also appear to be elected by direct vote. After all, even the way to vote here is not decisive, because what is concerned with the immunity of judges, who also have it in the majority of countries of the world and in Ukraine, they have such immunity, even though they are either appointed by Parliament or appointed by the President of Ukraine. I would like to draw attention today to the differences in our approaches that we are proposing after these illustrations, and I want to say that in view of the fact that we have a level of immunity that is actually slightly higher than in other countries, in particular we do not have, at least, what I have quoted was that in other countries there is a possibility of holding a member of parliament if he is at a crime scene, and in some countries it is possible to do so the next day. Moreover, there is, of course, a need to appeal to Parliament again. Understanding the desire of a part of the Ukrainian National Deputies to make everyone equal before the law, we suggest that we do so, all Ukrainians make it equal before the law, so that everyone is responsible for breaking the law, all without exception. [[Applause]] But in doing so, we want this responsibility to come after the prosecution, after the trial proves that a person has committed a crime. Ukrainian practice is very rich in examples that can be cited by thousands of people when the punishment comes first in the form of deprivation of liberty, and then months later, or years later, or there is a sentence, or they say, sorry, sorry we didn't break the law. But you've already been punished. Or they don't apologize, and there are these examples. Understanding the essence of Parliamentary activities, including not only the parliamentarian, but also the judges, and the President of Ukraine, we propose that we be responsible for breaking the law, but only after it has been proved by the court. So they don't get put in jail before they start investigating and bring the case to trial, and declare a verdict so that there's no prosecution for any reason. After all, it is not only for political reasons that divorce may be committed against those who engage in public activities. And besides, I think we should say today that this approach and the pedaling of this issue today is probably part of a project to combat parliamentaryism in Ukraine as well as the phenomenon. Parliament has never been suitable for any head of state in Ukraine. And today it is evident that there is a desire to make it obedient or quasi by Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u162	Five minutes of answers, questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u163	Wait a minute, I still have a little time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u164	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u165	I want to make it clear what this is all about, to read the text of the law that is being proposed. In article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to present part three in such an editorial manner: the Ukrainian national deputy cannot be detained or arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the indictment is handed down by a court of law. The same applies to article 105 of the Head of State. The President is guaranteed immunity at the time of the execution of the terms of office, and the President of Ukraine cannot be detained or arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the indictment is handed down by a court of law. All judges of Ukraine today have the same immunity. We can align this institution of immunity with all categories that use different types of intrusiveness. Today, I would ask the Ukrainian national deputies to be thoughtful, considerate, and responsible for parliamentaryism in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u166	Thank you. If you'd like to sign up for the answers, five minutes' notice. Glazonov Sergei Mikolaiovich. Party of regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u167	Please pass the word to Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u168	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u169	Dear colleague! Let me take this opportunity to urge our coalition colleagues to vote in favour of our bill and to lift the parliamentary and any in touch with the President of Ukraine and with all the others who use that inviolability. We can't take time, we don't have to take time. We need to take a decisive step today, and the Ukrainian people will appreciate this, because I don't understand why, by voting for a law that should be equal to all, our colleagues today make one another equal and the other equal. Please, Your Honor, listen to us, we will support you in every way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u170	Alexander Volodymyrovich, please
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u171	It was not a question, but a wish, a call to our coalition colleagues to support the approach that is being proposed. I share this call, and I hope that the draft changes to the Constitution will be supported both by opposition factions and by the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u172	Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich, Yuliy Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ravensk Region. There is a suggestion to stop speculation about the MP's in touch. Because the Yulia Tymoshenko Block has made these proposals on several occasions, including the MPs' signatures, and there has already been a vote. When we go to elections, it's always a question that comes up, it always comes up. Therefore, I believe that today an example needs to be made of itself, the national deputies of Ukraine. And when we show that example, then we ask questions about both the President and the judges and everyone else. And let us make such a gift to all the Ukrainian people and especially to women: no touching! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u174	Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u175	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u176	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, you have rightly said that our so-called Democrats of the so-called coalition have initially tried to “put on a peaceful shirt” in the form of an imperative mandate for a deputy, which the whole of Europe laughs at. They are now trying to wear the second “sympathetic shirt” in the form of a bill that does not conform to civilized democratic countries. I have a question: where do the so-called Democrats lead? In Europe? Or the jungle, the tumba jumbu tribe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u177	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u178	Mikhailo Kosov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Alexander Volodymyrovich, of the explanations you've given us, and it really turns out that in life, in these difficult situations that we're talking about, things don't always go one way or another. To the examples you gave, you could also name our colleague Stephen Cloud, who was arrested here in this room. However, you cannot deny that there are also opposite examples that deny what you say. You can't help but confirm that there really are people everywhere in all areas that use inviolability, and the crime behind them is crying. How in such cases do you find this way out of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u179	Mikhail Vasilovich, I think this is an option. I understand that the authorities are not always able to carry out appropriate actions in order to present in the session room a submission that may be supported by the deputies regarding the consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy. But this proposal just allows a criminal case to be brought against any national MP, is a ban only on his arrest and detention, and placement in an investigative isolation. I mean, if there's a conflict with the law in any of Ukraine's national deputies, against it, please open the criminal case and prove it, and the possibility of iron-clad protection against persecution for violations of Ukraine's laws will be totally excluded. So I hope you support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u180	Mankovsky Grigory Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u181	Please give the floor to National Deputy Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u182	Miroshenko Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u183	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, as co-authors of this bill, we take the opportunity to prepare this bill, based on one criterion: the development of democracy in our country. And of course, no one can be sure that today, without the immunity of the people's advocates, there will be no temptation tomorrow to use this invulnerability of the people's defences in order to put pressure on Parliament and actually embarrass democracy in our country. I'd very much like to ask you to emphasize the difference between these bills, because in fact they solve the same problem -- the problem of everyone being equal before the law. But at the same time, that's the option.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u184	Dear Yuri Romanovich, I confirm that what we are proposing is much closer to the norms that are in the constitutions of European countries and, above all, the countries of the European Union. The other one. Difference, you wanted me to call it. The biggest difference is that our project foresees the punishment of any national MP who has broken the law and proved himself guilty. Our coalition colleagues' project foresees the possibility of punishment without guilt. And if that is not the case, well, the maximum apology that has been made to the Ukrainian national deputies. Here's the difference between two projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u185	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we don't have committee reports because I've already told you that the committee hasn't considered this issue. Next, we have statements from factions according to article 30 of the Rules. In doing so, we clearly provide for article 30, according to the Rules. Dear Adam Ivanovich, where you saw someone who wanted to speak and could speak. Well, there's no such thing in the Rules. Therefore, it is clearly written: “representation of the people’s deputies, statements by the factions.” Please, we're on our way now, the national MPs' speeches, the factions' speeches. Five minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergey Grigorovich, please stand on the rostrum. The agenda says that Sergey Grigorovich is responsible, even though the committee has not considered it, but. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u186	Good afternoon, honourable deputies, distinguished voters. Well, first of all, as chairman of the committee, I'm obliged to report on the committee's work on this very issue, because we were chosen by the electorate, and they should know first of all how our committee works on this issue. So I can tell you that the four committee meetings to be considered by these two bills have not taken place. Why? Because some members of the committee did not visit the committee, nor did they have a quorum. Thus, these members of the committee are named four of the relevant notes given to the Head of the Supreme Council with the appropriate conclusions. So I can tell you that if there was the political will of the opposition forces, these bills would be considered, because, I remind you, the coalition of the Legal Policy Committee has five members, ten members of the opposition. Therefore, a loving decision that the opposition needed to make on the basis of them could be freely voted. So I think that this is just a simple sabotage of the committee and not a question, in one bill or another, a question in another that they don't want to record parliamentary immunity. I can stress the following, really, I want to tell you that we are not voting now and that we are not voting now for the removal of parliamentary immunity, we are voting today only for sending the texts of these bills to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. This is what we can call the NATO VAT as usual, this is the VAT when changes to the Constitution are introduced. So why are you doing this? I am confident that it is necessary to make a decision on the parliamentary integrity of the Chamber, necessarily in order for the Constitutional Court to reach its conclusion, to reach its conclusion, and then we can return to the issue of standing by the hands, namely, and then everyone will see who really wants to remove the intrusiveness. I can tell myself that when I was in opposition, I didn't need this MP touch and I don't need it right now. Therefore, we need to turn to ourselves, to our conscience, and to tell who needs this parliamentary immunity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u187	Please sign up for the performance. It's been five minutes. The factions, the first factions, then the national MPs. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u188	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the media! I want to tell my colleagues that the Fifth Channel is direct broadcasting on this issue, and this is an example of how other institutions in Ukraine have to be transparent and open to people to know what is going on. This is in the context of constant criticism and attempts to discredit the Ukrainian Parliament. I propose that the same direct sessions be held, more specifically, by broadcasts of meetings from the President's Secretariat, from colleagues and meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers. And then, respected journalists, you can objectively understand how all branches of Ukrainian authority work. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, I have only recently learned, unfortunately recently, that there is a “Tupik of the Supreme Council” in Kiev, is what the street is called. The “Tupik of the Supreme Council” is not far from the Golden Gates. What I'm saying is that I think that some of the technological failures during the election campaign, and also those offered by Ukrainian polytechnologists, sometimes cause some of our colleagues to go into a deadlock or a folding bed. Why I'm talking about this: because when it comes to the implementation of a really just and correct position of the phrase, the category “law one for all” is only done here on the MPs. [[What do you want to call it?]] You know, it's kind of weird, because then the law isn't the same for everyone, not just for everyone. So there are 6,550 more people in Ukraine who do not want to touch. I don't think that's right. The Lithuanian bloc understands that the MP's in touch with today's volume is not a better option. It needs to be really limited and brought to European standards. The Lithuanian bloc understands that the implementation of the constitutional provision on the same laws for all cannot be the basis for double standards for better persons in Ukraine, which cannot be done with them for a period of their mandate. This is wrong — a. This is unfair – b. And “in” is a “crossing bed”, obviously not good enough ocean advice on the pre-election campaign. And another moment that I can't help but say, honourable national MPs, and distinguished journalists, in this case, I would like to address you. You can understand that only a lazy person does not say that there has been a severe and total politicization of law enforcement authorities in Ukraine, when a lazy person does not speak of the fact that there are appointed law enforcement leaders in Ukraine, but, in fact, punishes, as in all countries, law enforcement agencies, not on grounds and circumstances of professionalism and career order, but on the basis of a party-political quota principle. Then, dear friends, law enforcement is turned into a very good tool for those who run these law enforcement agencies and who are not interested in being strong in other branches of power, to prevent them from making unjust decisions, to prevent them from holding the Constitution in a referendum, so that they simply interfere with their openness, transparency, if you want to be combative and viable. In such circumstances, of course, if you add more terms, I would like to take it calmly when practice testifies to some mental imbalance, some of the leaders of the law enforcement agencies. And some experts even say that some law enforcement managers are inadequacy -- it's a practice, it's true. Clearly, there is a danger, there are risks that such a general lifting of the immunity of MPs could lead to a deputy becoming a full puppeteer, being “on the hook” of those people who can direct law enforcement authorities and direct law enforcement authorities to those who advocate the interests of the elections in the fight, including against the corrupt law enforcement system in Ukraine, and that is true. So how can corrupt law enforcement agencies deal with people's deputies without Parliament's consent? I want to tell you that the position of equality before the law for all of us is a key position, we are willing to vote in favour of removing the immunity from all seven thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u189	Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u190	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. An extremely important problem is being considered in our hall today. I am convinced that today there is a lot of attention to our discussion of the entire Ukrainian society. It's very difficult for citizens to figure out who's right, who's to blame, considering that everyone is using such logic that they're fighting to compare MPs to ordinary Ukrainian citizens. What should be the basic criterion that each national electorate should come from when deciding which of the two draft laws to vote for? Dear colleagues, we are all representatives of the Ukrainian people. We all make up the only legislative body together. What we should care for and what we should get out of. First and foremost, as I said before, the fastening, the guarantee, the development of democracy in our country. Here's the main criterion that we have to get out of. And when we look at these two bills, we need to understand that each one of them is actually talking about one problem -- the problem of corruption and the exclusion of power from Ukrainian citizens, when some officials become princes untouchable to the law. Does it make sense for us to change the Constitution? Of course there is. But in what way? Are we now guilty of overturning parliamentaryism and ensuring that there is one official who is the President of Ukraine so that he, using unlimited inviolability, can exert pressure, should we compare everyone to the law? What does our coalition colleagues offer? They're offering their decisions to de facto leave all the national MPs defenseless at all. What if someone wants to, but those who control the law enforcement agencies simply shut down those who do not agree in the shop, without any reason, simply on the basis of their political or other relevance? [[I'm not talking about the staff right now.]] You've probably heard of the Regional Party's claim that political persecution has resumed. You've probably heard of it. You think there's a new criminal case coming up? How will Ukrainian society view today’s coalition, which calls itself democratic when, in parallel with the removal of immunity, political persecution is taking place? Will Ukraine’s trust and international partnership be expressed if we, as the coalition suggests, take away the parliamentary integrity? What do we propose as representatives of the Party of Regions? Of course, we care that the national electorate is the same as any other official who had equal, but is guaranteed a working condition. We're talking about that any national electorate like the President of Ukraine, just like any official, just like any judge who uses immunity today, has been touched by the Law. They could have been brought to criminal responsibility, but only when their guilt was proved in court. And this is a very important nuance that everyone who votes today should pay attention to. This nuance tells us that today the coalition is made up of "Our Ukraine" and "The Yulia Timoshenko Block", and tomorrow you may be in opposition, and tomorrow you may be subject to such persecution. We are discussing an important question today, and I would like to ask and ask both the Head of the Supreme Council and all the people's advocates to vote on this issue not just by name, but by individual means of raising their hands, so that each person will consider the way in which the Ukrainian democracy develops. We are all national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u191	Thank you. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich, The Yuli Block of Timoshenko. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the attention of the entire hall, the society and the voters to simple basic things. First thing. Dear friends, pre-election passions have just been removed. What political slogans did we go to the elections with? What did we have in front of us? All without the exception of the political forces had to cancel the benefits, the MP's immunity, the inviolability, and so on and so forth. That was the first one. And, believe me, in this room, when there was an inactive Supreme Council, you've already voted for this cancellation for the deputies, the honourable colleagues on the left. It's already been done. Next. The main issue is going to have to be solved. It's a political issue. When should we decide? At the beginning of the cadence or at the end before the new elections? We answer to society and voters honestly and openly at the beginning, not when we want to enjoy going to polling stations. Dear colleagues, we are starting the process, and today we are voting. And it will be clear to society that we have made the right choice. Third. Why are we doing this? Let's give people an answer and why we're doing it. Most importantly, we're being teased by all the years of independence that who hides in parliament? But no one hides in Parliament. Why, then, are we afraid? Why, then, are we afraid if no one is hiding? That's the first answer. And the second answer is, believe the attraction of undoing the inviolability of this limitless one will fall considerably for many, many categories. The business that we promised to separate from the system would be nothing for him to do in this room, because it's a completely different kind of business compared to business. So, your honorary colleagues, you're going to add to professionalism, and that's also true. Next. They spoke one law for all. The true law is one for all. Let's start with ourselves. We're here in the hall, we can do this in one single act. We're starting out because we promised, let's do this. In addition, there is a specificity of work and judicial authority and of the Presidential branch of power. Then we'll get to them. Next. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the coalition was reprimanded. Believe me, we've considered this a few times. It's not that simple. We understand how painful and painful it can be for someone, but we have made a unanimous political decision, fixed in our political covenant. So don't worry about how many of us are in the room. All 226 deputies clearly vote in favour of this act. Dear colleagues, don't get caught up in this. Don't worry. The 226 votes in favour. Do not camouflage the matter, do not engage in fornication, but let us vote. Period!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u193	Thank Ivan Grigorovich. Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u194	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u195	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I request silence in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared such a detailed legal statement, an analysis on this subject, but I have decided to leave it in my place of work, because this is not the question that requires such thorough legal analysis as I think. Very often in this room are very clever words that refer to the strict requirements of jurisprudence. And we have heard such words today, and I respect such speakers. Now I want to point out that there have been so many times in this room that such eloquent speaking has actually been the secret of wickedness. I want to believe that this is not the case. I'm not going to go through one or another piece of legislation in detail, because it seems to me that this is not the question where we should primarily be guided by the strict requirements of jurisprudence, because there is another axiom that Ukrainian national MPs sometimes, if not always, should be guided by – this is your conscience. And so I would like to appeal today, not to your understanding of jurisprudence, but to your conscience. Do you realize, fellow believers, that in the eyes of our people we are part of a privileged caste? Do you understand, Your Honor, that in our eyes. Your voters, this situation is absolutely unacceptable? Do you understand, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine, so that we can be, indeed, the national deputies of Ukraine so that we can conscientiously call ourselves the national deputies of Ukraine. We need to get down to that level sometimes. Which is where the Ukrainian people are now. And so, the honourable people's deputies of Ukraine, the essence of our proposal to change the Constitution, this is exactly the simple one for us all, not the evil one, these: let's go down to the level that the Ukrainian people live on and get rid of this prefigured situation where we're actually going to remain caste. I just want to say, without irony, although some people might say with an ironic smile that I welcome the euro. I'm not going to call the European aspirations of some part of the session room not to give you any reason not to. I also, of course, appreciate, perhaps sincere, your expressed yesterday, Euro-Atlantic aspirations. Because I think it's the right thing to do. Of course, we must consider if we really want to integrate into Europe, European standards. But then I want to ask you a question. Is this supposed to be our main criterion that we're guided by? Maybe so, but I'd like to give you another thesis. Perhaps the main criteria that we should be guided by when we are making changes to the Constitution are not European standards, not primarily European standards, but above all those of the Ukrainian people. Our faction comes from the fact that the Ukrainian people require us to stop being favored by caste. Let us take away the MP’s in touch, and let us set an example for the entire Ukrainian society! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u197	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u198	Respectable voters! The issue that Parliament is considering is very serious and requires full analysis. This is essentially the first step in strengthening voter control, that is. That is, our people for their chosen ones. And you, the well-respected voters, want us to have the rule of law. But I don't want to ask a rhetorical question. In most cases, you choose those who have long been lawless. But in fact, the current problem seems to me that we should look at it more deeply. What exactly is the problem? The problem is that the political system and the current regime in Ukraine, created during the years of independence, are produced in the light, i.e. it gives power to those who hide themselves from the law by committing a crime. Consideration of this issue confirms that it is this regime that is criminal. Why? Because, in fact, the regime makes them legal thieves. What is the subject of the dispute today in our society? The point of the dispute is that some people's deputies, speculatively speculating at the people's wish to act on the basis of law, are only proposing that the people's deputies be removed from their integrity. It's their right. But that is evil, because we, the Communists, will maintain a common position when it is necessary to remove the integrity of all officials exercising this right: from the President, from the people's deputies and from the judges. [[Applause]] Why? Because we are considering changes to the Constitution, to the Basic Law. As far as integrity is concerned, it is probably right from a legal point of view to make all changes immediately for all officials rather than to engage in naked populism. I invite the authors of both the first and the second bills to accept this and to make changes to the complex. Why are we suggesting this today? Because corruption as a metastases has affected everything in our power. Dear colleagues, is it not now a reason for us to claim that we must remove the integrity of everyone, because the fees for appointment are universal, ranging from the district structure to the Cabinet of Ministers. For a certain set of bribes, you all know very well what tariffs are set here. And these are the tariffs of a million dollars. Second, to be included in the list for the election of the People's Deputies. Then, so to speak, they will choose and enjoy the right of inviolability, and they will pay millions of dollars. Take it from the judges, so they don't judge by the rules. And in general, today's integrity is determined not by law, not by the Constitution, but by the size of a wallet. Whoever paid more in court bribes is right today. And he committed a crime, he killed a man, he paid a bribe, and today he's intact. And if we look today at the raid that is flourishing today. Consolidation of the interests of the executive and the courts. Is it not an object today for the people's deputies to remove their immunity from the judiciary, because they too are involved in the raiding, that is, the destruction of the foundations of the sovereignty of our country? You're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're talking about, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're here, you're talking about, you're here, you're here, you're talking about, The president is in charge of the gas business today. Is that not a reason to remove his inviolability today? And he's not hiding it. In Tajikistan, he now stated that he was in charge of the gas business and was interested in how and where he would receive those revenues. What do his roots do on the ground? The Presidential Heads of Administration have come to their senses. They've lost their conscience at all. What are the heads of district administrations and district administrations doing? In fact, the President is playing a role of incense for them today. Thus, in fact, it destroys independence and sovereignty in the country. Today, the President is intensifying the oligarchization of power if we do not remove the integrity of it, so that will continue. The judges -- once again, I would like to stress -- are the branches of power that today destroys the gene pool of our people in terms of the greatest, in terms of the demands we are making. The Communist faction will therefore vote in favour of a bill that must be removed from all: the President, the People's Deputies and the Judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u199	People's Deputies, five minutes' notice. I propose the next procedural decision, not a procedural one, but an organizational decision, which concerns the following. In principle, we have not completed our consideration of this issue, so we cannot go further. But in order to preserve the purity of the experiment, I would like to ask the national deputies of Ukraine to vote in favour of the next approach. We consider the matter to the end until we have completed the voting procedure, continue the plenary meeting accordingly, and thus consider the matter to the very end. I am voting on the continuation of the plenary session until the conclusion of the debate on amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the withdrawal of parliamentary immunity. Please vote. [[13:07:37]] For 224 For - 224. It's not a decision, colleagues. We continue to speak from the factions of a colleague, then the “Variable” will not be in effect until we have completed our consideration of the matter. Let's finish by two o'clock, then maybe there'll be a few more minutes on "Rose." Please give a speech to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u200	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. In continuing our statement by our leader, Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko, I would like to say this: to this day, if we speak largely, the President, in an effort to have absolute power, in an effort to solve all the problems of power during the election, is exerting himself with all that can be done with dictatorial functions, in order to destroy parliamentaryism. And today we see an example of what our Parliament has become. And in response to the words of a political rapporteur representing the President, I must say, in those countries where there is no parliamentary immunity, there are no nationalists in power -- that is the main question. The nationalists are doing everything today to destroy the dissension. And speaking of the moral aspect of this issue, I would like to have this issue initiated by the wrong people who have taken advantage of this inviolability. Let us speak frankly, and our people must understand clearly, the same Lakota, who today, from all rostrums, shouts that the inviolability must be removed, that all the pills must be removed, has no moral right to do so for one reason: the four-and-a-half-year-old cannot be and represent the interests of the majority of the population. As a matter of fact, Timoshenko and Yulia Vladimirovna were also nominated. No one has been nominated from us to remove the intrusiveness. Lazarenko from you is still sitting in America, and, excuse me, for the expression and comrade Kirilenko participated with him there. Therefore, dear friends, return to your colleagues! Let's talk about morality, let's not end up misleading our people, if we're to remove the inviolability, but only from everyone, without exception, and from the President first, we have to remove it so that he doesn't impose his power on almost half-criminal. Why? Because it requires the heads of the administration to carry out illegal actions. They are now seen at all levels, ranging from the district council to the district council, to the return of the President of the Administration. Therefore, dear friends, I would like today, when we discuss this issue, to be completely honest with people, and not to hide ourselves from the political power that represents the President, so that she has nothing to gain from the dividends. She's today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u201	Stoyan renders the word “Kyselovo Vasile Aleksiyovich. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u202	Dear compatriots, as colleague Lavrinovich has already said, only one official in the state has absolute integrity – this is the President of Ukraine. All the other people, and when they refer here to what the national MP and the President himself have said about it, they have absolute immunity, that's not true. National deputies may be brought to criminal responsibility, arrested, and searched after the Office of the Attorney-General has addressed the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council have agreed to bring responsibility. There is a special order of accountability. This is the norm of the law. In addition, I repeat that the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism only knows one case and I will tell you, unlike my colleague Lavrinovich, that the only deputy that Parliament has not agreed to the prosecution's appeal was Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. And this is what I gave to help you understand that it is not a matter of tiredness that a deputy cannot be held accountable, but loudly that there is a desire for the President to be held accountable by a particular deputy, because, today, the authorities are acting on their principle, as our colleague Litwin once said, acting on the principle: “All things are for their own sakes, but for their enemies the law.” I'm bringing in a concrete example of how the author and today's changes to the Constitution are implementing the code of law for all. Now, if you'll excuse me. On April 1, last year, at the Dniprovska Coastal City of Kiev, about the first year of the night after the celebration of the Supreme Council's decree to launch, a national deputy from the BUTU School, Andriy Vasilovich, who, riding on his own car, according to the IMF's instructions, at speeds of about 120 kilometers per hour at the allowed 60, hit a car that drove out and killed two people, one of whom was a young man 20 years old. And I'm also saying that the school was on demand because according to the same police manual, I'm going to get it, on my hands, he refused to give blood for alcohol. I can't imagine if a simple driver who killed two people didn't put blood on the table, and I didn't answer by law, but he would have been sitting from the moment of the merger of the criminal to today. Soon the year I keep it under control, but you can't break through this wall. I have addressed the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the Head of the Supreme Court, and now I have to make a public appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine, and I ask that you consider this to be a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u203	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u204	No, no, John gave it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u205	Wait, it's not done yet, I can't give you three minutes, you don't start in three pines.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u206	So I'm asking you to consider the request made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to submit an agreement on the involvement of the National Deputy of School in criminal matters. And I want to ask, why hasn't he done it yet? And if the Faction of BUTU and “Our Ukraine” vote in favour of giving consent to attracting the School, I will personally vote in favour of withdrawing the MP's immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u207	Thank you, Vasil Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u208	But you know what's going on today, the President wants us all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u209	Vasil Alexiyovich, I'm sorry, I have to beat you up because there are your colleagues next. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, Party of Regions Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u210	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! It's time to pay the bills, I mean the electoral notes. Well, certain political parties have already paid for, I mean, BUT. We already have a professional army since January 1st, our children are no longer called into the army, we have already placed a branch. The time has now come to fulfil the commitments made by other representatives of the so-called coalition majority, our Ukraine: one law for all. They've gained just over 10 percent in the election. But when the time has come to implement this law, a completely different implementation scenario is proposed, not one law for all, but out of 7,000,450, to leave the President under the umbrella of integrity. I don't think it's very serious. And yesterday has shown that, indeed, in our Ukraine, there are people of great decency, honour, courage, civil position who have not allowed the people to be deceived, who did not vote for the deception of the people yesterday, who have not supported the cut-off bill on the removal of parliamentary integrity. I am taking off my hat against the civilian courage of former Defence Minister Griesenko Anatoli Stepanovich, who, yesterday in a broadcast, said to the country-wide talk show "I think so": there should be no privileges for anyone to put on one board and the President, all seven thousand people who have the integrity and the integrity of all. I think this has come to the representatives of our Ukraine, and today 70 people have a conscience. There's no press in the room, let them count. They fear that they will be forced to vote, and they do not come, nor do they want to deceive people. That's why I'm offering everyone. I'm talking to everyone. Let us help our Ukraine pay the bills in full for their promise. The law is one for all. Let us vote in favour of the old draft of the Party of Regions, where it is proposed to remove the integrity of the President, the judges, and, yes, the deputies. Besides, don't let them hide under the tables. They're already red, they're red. Don't blush like that. And that everyone should stand up and call his name and raise his hand to see who is really doing the will of the people and who is simply lying and deceiving yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u211	Thank you. The only one, Vasil Alexiyovich, was the phrase that Litwin repeated the phrase that friends are all enemies of the law. It's not Litwin, it's dictator Franco speaking. Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Please, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u212	Jaroslav Kenzior People's Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Dear Head, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies. It seemed to be a question that would not cause so much excitement in our session hall, for everyone swore allegiance, loyalty to his electorate and Ukrainian people in general, and today there is a chance to demonstrate this loyalty and to say that, dear Ukrainian people, we really renounce it in the face of the glorious inviolability, we will leave the mess needed to fulfill our responsibilities. But all the witnesses, how the debate over this matter got heated. You know, I listened very carefully to the information of Lavrinovich, who was giving examples of these Nazi scary states, which is the level of parliamentary immunity, but I want to ask, Alexander Volodymyrovich. And tell me, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, is there a level of corruption in those states that you called: Germany, Italy, Slovakia, others like us in Ukraine? Does one square metre of our Parliament’s sessional hall include, as it were, more potential criminal types that are no longer crying and moaning at the crime scene? Dear society, we have, I think, one square metre of the most potential criminal authorities. But I want to be like an MP who remembers all the vocations. ‘ I want to remind you of a few such vivid examples. First call. Communist Trizna defeats a man’s death, the Supreme Council decides to hand him over, as it were, under justice or not. The Supreme Council does not vote. Tweezer. “Earth and men”. Seventy-eight million dollars stolen. The criminal case has been instituted, and that's the end of it. Tweezer. 2000 I'm the head of the commission to investigate the financial and economic activities of the Head of the Supreme Council of Tuckenka. 52 million stolen from the budget of the Supreme Council. Communist Potemenko is the Attorney-General. The committee didn't get the answer. Chechtev, who was in front of me, followed by a criminal cell. [[Applause]] His testimony on "Criminal," his protocol, his pure-hearted confession, is already a criminal, and he's sitting here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u213	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, I apologize and will not be as emotional as the previous reporter on this issue. I will try to act as a lawyer, representing one of the known factions, and I can say for all my colleagues. In that sense, as some of our coalition colleagues have been treated, there is no need for a fraction of the region to be touched. You look at me. At all, when I went to the district council, I didn’t need to be left untouched as a lawyer. And I don't have this badge, one of them I gave this badge, and I never hid like most of my colleagues for the principle of integrity. But I'm paying attention to our reporter, Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. He actually said that there is a universal, universally binding legal norm — immunity. From Latin it is “freedom”, i.e. immunity from expression, immunity from other political activities, which it carries as a subject of the legislative initiative of a deputy. But if we agree with you, because really, the bills and the bills make sense, and this makes sense, but if we agree for the only, not double, but the only standards that immunity should not be distributed to the national MP, to the judge, to the President of the Constitution, who is the guarantor of the implementation of the Constitution. Then we will vote in favour of this harmonized bill. And now, honourable colleagues, I would ask if, in fact, according to the Rules, the chairman should put two bills to the vote. In fact, our faction -- the faction of communists and the faction of Vladimir Litvin -- will support the reporter Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, because this is the most important bill, and he has no exceptions. But if something technologically so happens, there are not enough votes in the coalition to support Mr. Kirilenko's bill, so I would suggest -- unfortunately, the Rules do not provide for the creation of a single working group and a single harmonized draft for the next session. It doesn't need to be touched, but it's the only bill of all factions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u215	Thank you. Colleagues, the time for the national deputies of Ukraine has come to an end. There are now several requests for replicas. Peter Mikolaiovich, can you let me hold a meeting? I have a good memory, I have a good hearing, and as you told me, the replica is about to be given to you. But before that, we have two more lines. Okay? Thank you. We have our first request on the basis of a reprimand from Deputy Láška, the second request from the National Deputy of Ukraine, Griesenka Anatolia Stepanovich. And the third request: the leader of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, as mentioned by the KPU faction. If anyone else wants to, please. Please, MP Laska's lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u216	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Fortunately, I did not have to sit as much as I was told, but, in fact, before I was elected as Ukrainian National Deputy, for many years in professional journalism, I was subjected to persecution by the then authorities. I had several criminal cases against me, the newspaper was melted, and the newspapers closed. And on this point, he was the former deputy minister of justice, and the minister of justice. from our opponents, they can confirm, there is even a European court ruling that recognized that they were political persecution. So please, I would ask my colleagues to think a little bit about what they're saying. And for morals or immorality, you're looking at the leader of your own, what was it like for you to be with him in one coalition: he's very moral?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u217	Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Do you want out of the rostrum? Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, I want to explain my position, not the faction's position, because my name has been mentioned. I am looking for an answer to the question: which of the two bills is more appropriate to the interests of people, who, according to large estimates, are more honest with the slogan “One Law for All”, which will contribute more to strengthening both the law and democracy. And my answer is that project Lavrinovich reported here. [[Applause]] It's not too bad to admit that this is not a project by our faction. Although I say, I've come my way and I've offered it to the faction repeatedly, and my colleagues will confirm it: I did it publicly. I'm afraid we're not going to make any decisions today, but if we make decisions, I would urge everyone to vote for this bill and not think about who brought it, because we Ukrainians are now living and obeying the laws and the laws and the Kirghoff, the Gay Lusca, and Boyle-Moriotta, the people of the non-Ukrainian people, but they're working for logic, for good reason. This bill, Lavrinovich, is not perfect, but it is better. I propose to support him, I will vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u219	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u220	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, I would like to make some clarification because we are very often talking about the morals and facts of the presentations. So here's the thing, the sassy patriot Captain, Kenzior, was being held accountable in his own time for the fact that he was handing out his minions to the soldiers. Do you understand why this man was brought to justice? And today, he's explaining whose interests he's protecting. The only solution is, the circus is gone, and the clown is left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u221	Replica, Deputy Kendzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u222	Jaroslav, Jaroslav Kenzior. You know, somewhere back in the day, it seems like I've already responded to a rumor about this circus-free circus. So I admitted that I had recently pulled a well - oiled machine gun, minomet, and tank from the roof of my mother’s house. And now they're in my combat state in the village in my mom's, standing in the yard. That's how I robbed the Armed Forces of the Soviet Union, and they became poor. And they were weakened by the collapse of their beloved Soviet Union, their beloved Warsaw Treaty. And now all those who were there are already in NATO, thank God. I hope that Ukraine will also be in NATO, as I say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the speech, for the discussion, for everything, has come to an end. This should now be about the voting procedure. The 141st article of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine foresees, namely paragraph 5, three decisions that can be taken by the Ukrainian Parliament as a result of the discussion of the matter. The first decision is the inclusion decision, the formal decision, the inclusion in the agenda, and if rephrased, the beginning of the amendment procedure in the Constitution of Ukraine. The second decision is to include in the agenda and to refer the relevant draft decision to the Constitutional Court for consideration and for the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. And that's very important because the Constitutional Court will, under any circumstances, become the next site: whether it confirms the constitutionality of this or any other proposal or not. Because there is a complex procedure to reach the Constitutional Court’s conclusion on the constitutionality of these provisions that are proposed. And the third decision is to put it into the agenda and send it to the appropriate committee to work on this proposal, and we've been working on the bill. There are several proposals for a voting procedure. The first was the proposal made by the faction of the Party of the Regions, not the proposal, but the actual submission made, to amend the voting method in accordance with article 37 of the Ukrainian Rules. This is a way that has already been tested in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a personal name vote by raising a hand. If I'm not mistaken, that's the full name. The second proposal immediately after your proposal is a vote on the question of how to change voting also by raising your hand. In other words, we're going to have two stages of voting, three to be exact. First. It is now necessary to decide by cards, 150 votes, in order to change the voting procedure for the adoption of the decision on the inclusion in the agenda and referral to the Constitutional Court of the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Thereafter, the Counting Commission and 150 national deputies of Ukraine, on the one hand or on the other, make decisions by hand regarding the change in voting methods. Under the terms of effect of this decision, the vote to amend the Constitution takes place by raising the hand of 226 Ukrainian national deputies by physical presence in the Chamber. The Counting Commission and our colleague Shershun should be present, everything documented, and this process will in principle take about two hours. As we've already estimated, it's about two hours. So now I'm going to give everyone a word of this procedure. It's okay, guys. It's okay. I'll give everyone a word of procedure. After that, we're going to have to vote in any circumstances on the decision to continue the plenary session, because I'm telling you again that it takes two hours to do so. Then the whole voting procedure goes on and we're going to make the right decision. I'm asking you to step out of the procedure. Please sign up, colleagues, five minutes out of the procedure. Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u224	Please pass the word to Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u225	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u226	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, I have an offer not to complicate the issue of lifting parliamentary immunity, because it is clear, obvious, clear and already discussed. So why not keep the voters' attention for another two or four hours? By standing up once 150 members of the opposition will rise up just as 226 members of the coalition later. So just so you don't argue once again that you're against cancelling parliamentary immunity, let's stick to the standard parliamentary procedure, and vote cards on the beginning of the procedure for amending the Constitution. And in 226 votes, we will vote on this issue, and we will refer it to the Constitutional Court for a conclusion by opening the way for the abolition of parliamentary integrity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u227	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u228	Please pass the word to Sergio Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u229	Sergei Sass. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u230	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, once again I would like to point out to you and my colleagues that the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not provide for a special procedure for the consideration of amendments to the Constitution. There is a general procedure defined in part two of article 47 of the Rules, which states, inter alia, that the decision of the Supreme Council is taken by an open name vote. Arsenius Petrovich, by name vote. So in this case, under article 37, a vote by raising a hand is possible only if the Council’s electronic system is not working. And in order to move away from the procedure set by the rules of procedure today, we need to comply with article 50.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u231	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u232	In accordance with article 50 of the Rules, which provides for a one - time deviation of ad hoc decisions by a majority of the constitutional composition. So I don't see another option right now, there's a rule and let's stick to it. When there was a precedent for the Prime Minister, there was 200 articles for open voting, that is, a way to determine, and the view was not defined. Then we used part of part five, which sent us to article 49, where 150 votes were taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u233	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u234	Dear colleagues! Of course, it is such an important and very painful question and it is not necessary to bring the vote to absurdity. We vote everyone as stipulated in the Rules, we vote cat. And the second. Everyone in this room has known that the law of Lavrinovich is more honest. This is a law that provides for the elimination of the inviolability of judges, judges of seven thousand. When we are in the districts, we listen to people's problems so much that it's impossible to bring equality before the law in Ukraine without undoing this inviolability. Therefore, honourable colleagues, let us be honest to the end, voting in favour of the bill that Lavrinovich reported, there are MPs and judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u235	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u236	Please pass the word to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u237	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u238	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich! We must indeed abide by the Rules and I am here fully supporting our colleague from BUT Sas Sergey Vladimirovic. Under the Rules, you are holding a meeting today without interruption, and I will recall that the time has passed because we are working continuously and you must ask the question of extending our future work. That's the first one. Now, with regard to the second question. We have issued a draft decree on the voting from our faction. If anyone wants to change the form of the vote you spoke about, we would like to see a draft regulation on this issue. If he is not in the room, this draft order, Arsenija Petrovich, we already have a bitter experience when we vote on what is not possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u239	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u240	There is therefore a compelling request that the Party of the Regions should clearly adhere to the rule of law. To now put the work on extension, the question of extending our work, then, if there is a vote, those projects that exist, vote them, and continue to define the voting method, follow the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u241	Thank you. Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u242	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to draw your attention to this situation, in accordance with part two, part two, article 37, you have the right to put a motion for a procedural decision to vote only if, now, I am quoting the rules, “unless there is no technical possibility to vote through an electronic system”. So in order to establish the correctness of the electronic system, we need to vote as provided in paragraph 1, part two, article 37, or electronic system. This time. But in the case of Arseny Petrovich, if this is not done, if you put a procedural decision to the vote, then I formally make an offer, a procedural decision to make on a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u243	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u244	And vote on the motion for a procedural decision in accordance with paragraph 2, part two, article 37, that is, by raising hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u245	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now proceed again only under the Rules. So we're going back to the question of how to proceed. Because legally, we have to vote and make a decision to continue the meetings until the issue is concluded. This proposal is made, including by the faction of the Party of Regions. I'm asking you very carefully that we, colleagues, calm down. We don't have to ask questions about the vote yet. After that, I ask that I have legal draft decrees on how to change the voting procedure, so it takes five minutes for them to be registered and drafted accordingly. Third. We are quick to vote, and until the end of the day today, with our hands and feet, and in another way, we will go through this procedure so that the Ukrainian people can see who is “in favour” of who is “against”. That is why I am putting to the vote the question of the continuation of the plenary session of the Supreme Council until the issue of amending the Constitution of Ukraine is concluded in part of the withdrawal of parliamentary immunity. Please vote. [[13:41:24]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Colleagues! In view of this, I would like to ask that when the voting procedure is under way, it is desirable to press the “yes”, “against” button. And then not to mention that something didn't work out. It's all worked out. The decision is not taken twice on this issue. That's why we still have 19 minutes with you and the legal 15 minutes of the head of the Supreme Council. So we have 30 minutes. What I'm offering. I suggest we figure out how we're going to look at this next time. Clearly, we're not going to go through this procedure again today, are we? So there are two options for events. One of the best ways we can do this right now is to vote cards if there's any good will. Voting cards at one point — colleagues, listen to me very carefully! - The 141st part of the agenda. We'll work it out. It's going to be true, let's vote one, the other bill with cards. And then we're going to have a complicated, difficult process, but we're going to run it. I mean, we're in. Because I understand that if you go to the Constitutional Court, you'll immediately be in position on the left side. So far, it's specific about putting the issue into the agenda. Then the committee will work on it over the week and we'll come to the next decision. But I'm asking you to vote cards. Dear colleagues, I ask the factions to sign up in one minute for my offer. Please speak from the factions. Timoshenko Mikhalovich, Communist Party of Ukraine, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u246	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like us to act as follows in the order that will enable us to get out of this situation, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. There is a draft decree that provides for a change of voting form, not with cards, but with hands and each individual raises and talks about his position as to how he supports the bill or another bill. So I ask Arseny Petrovich, first of all, to put a decision on the ballots, which provides for a vote change, this will be the right thing to do. Then the whole mechanism will be legitimate, because the same form of voting will be in favour of making a decision. And yet I would like to talk to the drafters again and again. Let's understand that we're going to speed up the procedure by admitting that one vote is going to have to be voted out to undo the inviolability of the President, the judges and the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u247	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u248	I have a proposal and a third call to my colleagues. If you don't mind, Your Honor, we'll be voting with cards now. If not, I ask you to block those MP cards that are not in the hall, and then we will re-vote with cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u249	Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u250	Please pass the word Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u251	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u252	Viacheslav Kirilenko “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear voters, now the regionals are covering their refusal to remove the MP's in touch with anything else, something that needs to be removed from both the President and from other people. Dear colleagues, the principle position of the coalition of democratic forces is to begin with. Each member of the region, each member of the Communist State must now press the button by name for lifting the MP's in touch, not anyone's in 20 years' time, but their own. Therefore, our official position, now in accordance with 141 articles of the Rules, paragraph 5 of Part 2 of the Rules, is to vote on the inclusion of the bill in the agenda, with a simultaneous appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on the bill by that court, and this is the beginning of a procedure to abolish parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u253	Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Vladimir Yavorowski. I want to make it clear that if we're not stuck, at least we're on a cliff. I just want to remind you that to talk about this question, or, if you just let it drag on somehow so that it doesn't get considered and we don't vote on it, it's going to hit each one of us, regardless of our views. Because of this, Arsenija Petrovich, we are now discussing one single question: to include this in our work, it's the only question, we're not mixing other votes now. Let's go through this first rock. Therefore, put to the vote to include the matter in the agenda. Again, I remind you, avoid considering the matter. Believe me, from the Supreme Council, from our own, the remains of one of our own, that means there's nothing left to prestige.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u255	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u256	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues! People's Honourable Deputies! You know, it's kind of funny to observe these propaganda calls for the abolition of parliamentary immunity at a time when those who say they want to do so didn't provide 226 deputies in the hall to legitimately vote for it, in accordance with the Constitution. Arsenius Petrovich, voting on the cards of the people in Brussels today, is very easy to verify. I don't think it suits the people's deputies by violating the Constitution to make changes to the Constitution, which is the new Constitution if it changes by an explicit violation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u257	Thank you. A replica of the faction of the Party of the Regions, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u258	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. You know, I would not like to continue in the same tone as our colleagues in our Ukraine have discussed. I would like to say only the following, Arsenija Petrovich, we have a registration note on our hands, and if certain factions want to cover up that they have no people in the room and they cannot vote once again on some ephemeral issue that the Party of the Regions does not want to vote, that is not true. The Party of Regions project is registered, we invite our colleagues to vote in favour of our project, it is broader and more objective if they really want to solve this problem. If they don't want to solve this problem, but they want to do the clown thing here alone, then we don't have to involve our political forces in this circus because we want to deal with more serious issues in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u259	Thank you. You know that I am a great supporter of the implementation of article 84, part 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, and I have been declared Head of the Supreme Council, literally since the first days of our work. I am now working on developing and hopefully in the walls of our Parliament adopting a law on the order of adoption and signing by the Head of the Supreme Council of relevant laws. Because I should have a legislative basis when the Head of the Supreme Council does not sign a law that has not been voted on personally. So we will work on the law, and we will make sure that this is dealt with in a legislative way. With regard to today’s situation. Could I ask you two minutes to come to me, Alexander Sergiyovich, you, Viacheslave Anatolievich, you, John Grigorovich Kirilenko, you, and who, Peter Mikolaiovich, and from “The Block of Lithuania”, I do not see Vladimir Mikhailovich, who is from “The Block of Lithuania” – his deputy? Two minutes before me, please, if we can make a decision right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u260	Dear cocoons, the following is proposed about. The head of the Supreme Council is using his 15 minutes, with your permission, and we're breaking up. Dear colleagues, the next decision is proposed. We have a basic bill, 1375. The alternative is 1375-1. The committee did not consider 1375 and 1375-1. I don't know why this doesn't happen. Therefore, the next decision is proposed. During the week, the Main Committee will consider a basic bill and an alternative, and make a proper decision by Monday before the Conciliation Council meets. In the absence of a decision, the voting procedure should be exercised without the decision of the Supreme Council Committee. We don't have another decision yet. So I ask you to vote for this decision. Please vote. [[14:04:45]] For 221 The decision is not taken. That's how. Let's do it with motive. Five minutes of motive. Nine more minutes. The sand is Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u261	Thank you. Popescu, faction Party of the region. Respectable colleagues, respected voters, are the real person of the coalition, who constantly says that they want to make a decision. In this case, a specific approach was proposed when the situation could be resolved in a manner consistent with the Rules and the Constitution. We reiterate that we remain committed to withdrawing our integrity from everyone, including the President. And they don't want to go for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u262	Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u263	Thank you. Dear Arseniy Petrovich, honourable colleagues, the matter is that we have completed the procedure and must make a decision in accordance with the Rules, one of the three provided for in part five of article 141 of the Supreme Council’s Rules: either include it in the agenda, or put it into the agenda and send it to the Constitutional Court at the same time, or postpone the decision to be taken on the agenda. If we do not make any decisions, then the bill is considered withdrawn. That is why we are now bound by this rule. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u264	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u265	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Honorable national MPs and honourable voters, if we now come together to submit both bills to the committee, that means that the mountain has given birth to a mouse, because this committee of legal policy has been boycotted by deputies from the opposition for the entire time, and that is all the more that it will not be held in order to undo the parliamentary immunity. So this vote, which has just been proposed, is practically finally burying any cancellation of parliamentary immunity just at the parliamentary committee level. So I suggest we not look for solutions that only complicate the situation. And now, in turn, to put two bills to the vote with buttons in the name regime, and whoever takes most of the votes will be sent to the Constitutional Court for conclusion. That's fair and fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u266	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u267	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u268	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u269	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think and I think, and the 221 people's deputies, I see, support the same idea that the proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council was perfectly logical, correct, and we need to look at these bills first on the committee, because once again, I repeat, these changes to the Constitution. But Arsenija Petrovich, article 19 says that from 12 o’clock there are 30 minutes of breaks. We didn't take 30 minutes off today. You absolutely have the right to continue for 15 minutes. The meeting was scheduled to be adjourned at 13.45 p.m. Plus your 15 minutes as chairman, that is, at 2:00 a.m., the meeting was due to be adjourned. And one more thing. Surprisingly, this was a very serious accusation made at the address of our school colleague. I'd like him to take the line and explain why it's really getting to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u270	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u271	Thank you. Please give the floor to Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u272	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u273	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I want to speak now as the head of the national MPs' union. Mr. Yatsenuk, today is the day of the great celebration of the International Women's Day. You haven't been able to greet our fellow MPs in the morning. You haven't been able to reach out to women in Ukraine, and all the labor teams are already welcoming women at 12 hours, celebrating, and we're hanging out here. We understand that women are not. MPs aren't women, I guess, so I welcome you all, women. Please finish this dagger and move the matter to the next Supreme Council. I'll see you next week. Thank you. But I remind you, Monday is the weekend, so don't plan any meetings on Monday. It's the third day after the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u274	Babenko Valeriy Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u275	Please pass the word to Lisko Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u276	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u277	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Well, we think that today we're the opposition part of Parliament showing that we don't want to give up our parliamentary immunity, our benefits. And you don't have to yell, we know. So we ask the Head of the Supreme Council not to put any questions to the committees. Take your stand as prescribed in the 141st Rule. We accept the day’s notice with the simultaneous referral to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion. And that's what we promised all the people during the election campaign, that we're giving up the touch, let's give up, or I'll start making up the holidays, there's nothing left to not vote on. Think of something else tomorrow. I think that if we vote now, the rostrum will begin to be blocked again, just to remain intact, to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-03-07-m0.u278	Colleagues, colleagues, I propose as follows. There are two choices. Option one, and it would be the right one. We would now vote 1375-1 just for inclusion in the agenda, that's all. Listen carefully. There's a second option that won't bring us anything. We'll take it to the next week and start fighting from the next plenary week. Well, what's the point? Let's see. We're just putting it into the agenda, including the 141st part one. 1375 on the vote, 1375-1 on the vote. And it'll be okay. Colleagues, come on. I'm voting for inclusion in agenda 1375. Please vote. [[14:12:06]] For 219 The decision is not taken. You see, we had a fight. 1375-1 to the vote. [[14:12:28]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you on this successful day. We had a fight, and we showed our true faces. I welcome all the women of Ukraine with March 8th, all the men including. We're adjourning the plenary session. Thank you.
