ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin the evening session. We have the next issue of agenda 2302, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine relating to State support for the publishing business. With motive? Please, Motivation Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u2	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, in the morning and Head of the Supreme Council, and you promised 3024 a government bill to include in the agenda. Alexander Volodymyrovich, on the simplification of the VAT system in agriculture. You promised that after lunch we'd put it in the agenda. Correct the numbering, they were supposed to distribute 3024 bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u3	Yes, such a promise was indeed to be found and to be considered further. Any questions about the next job? If everyone, please register. [[16:03:27]] There are 430 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session open. First of all, we're following up on the decision that was made in the morning about what we need to consider the draft Law on Added Cost Tax, which concerns agriculture. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u4	Let's do 3024. Colleagues, you have this bill, number 3024, on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation of agricultural goods. I would like to vote in favour of including this bill in the agenda. We vote like Catherine Timofievna said. [[16:04:32]] For 302 Decision taken. Bill No. 2302 on amendments to Ukraine’s individual laws relating to State support for the publishing industry in Ukraine is being announced. King Oleg Anatolyovich will report. Please, Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u5	Dear Alexander Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws relating to State support for the publishing industry in Ukraine, registration number 2302 of 19 May 2008. The need for the drafting of this bill is due to the end of 1 January 2009 of the special taxation regime for publishing entities for the purpose of supporting and developing the Ukrainian Bookkeeping in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State support for the publishing business in Ukraine. Notably, the bookstore’s benefits apply only to the production of goods and services in the book - making business. The purpose of the bill is to extend the term of the corporate tax and customs tax regime to entities in the publishing industry for the value added tax, the corporate income tax and the customs duty until January 1, 2015, by clarifying the drafting of certain laws related to the change in legislation. So only the date changes, just the date. On January 1, 2009, it changes by January 1, 2015. In such laws of Ukraine: taxation of the income of enterprises, on the sole duty rate, on the value added tax. In addition, some minor editorial regulations are introduced in the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy, having considered Bill 3202, 2302, recommended that it be accepted as a basis. The Science and Experimental Authority also recommends that it be accepted as a basis. I don't think anyone in this room needs to be convinced of the relevance and necessity of adopting this bill. Because the book has not only a material component, but, above all, its sociocultural dimension, spiritual and cultural value. I will note that this bill does not conflict with the terms of acceptance of the World Trade Organization. I would like to thank the Cabinet of Ministers, the government officials who prescribed a five - year lay - down regime for the bookstore, for the conditions for Ukraine’s admission to the World Trade Organization. Most WTO member countries provide VAT benefits through the book. In Britain, Canada, Ireland, a zero VAT rate. About three percent in most European countries, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain and others with a total VAT of 15-25 percent. So if Bill No. 2302 is not immediately adopted, then the Ukrainian bookstore, which is still in crisis, and it's barely begun, it's starting to stop, it's going to end again. So, honourable Members, I ask you to support this bill. Although the committee has taken on a foundation, I think that if there are such thoughts and there will be support for the hall, it will be acceptable in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u6	Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich. 5 minutes of questions - answers. Let's sign up. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u7	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. I think there's no doubt that the bill needs to be supported. We have fought here on more than one occasion for such bills, and it's good that we've accepted it before 2009, now continue until 2015. The only thing I have or no objection to the budget committee. You said that if the Cabinet of Ministers agreed, because this is a serious budget burden, because since 2009, we've been carrying on for as long as 2015, that is, for six years, we're continuing these benefits, and that is, if it's not important, there's some budget burden. What understanding, first of all, and our budget committee, because that's the load, and here's what it needs to conclude and those who have a bearing, clearly that there's no Minfin here, he probably wouldn't approve of this bill very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u8	There's no one here from the Cabinet of Ministers. Here's from the committee to book Vasil Grigorovich. If Arsenius Petrovich gives the floor, he will express his point of view. As far as I'm concerned, I believe that the book is an object on which to make no money in general. And we're not going to make the money on a book that we're going to spend on incomprehensible things. That's my personal point of view. No one considered budget losses to be budgetary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u9	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u10	Thank you. Jaroslav Dry City of Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Oleg Anatolyovich, I certainly support your point of view: saving is needed elsewhere, on other goods, on other services and on other grounds. In the Ukrainian book you can't save, I'm telling you how one of the authors of the bookstore in Zaporozhye, when we started, was extremely difficult. I have a question like this, can you please tell me if this bill provides for benefits in order to relieve the tax on printing equipment? Because we have our equipment in many publishing facilities that are extremely outdated. If this equipment is not produced in Ukraine, it could be imported without tax. It's no loss. And the second question. Tell me, please, there are government polygraph combinations, there are private polygraph combinations. Is your bill somehow dividing the benefits for public and private polygraph combinations, for what is the publication of the book and what is the publication of the advertising product that is intended to make a profit? So that we don't make everyone happy under our hot arm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u11	I'm starting to answer. There is no difference between public and private enterprises and a common approach. That's a first. Second. In fact, what you're talking about, we don't have a lot of equipment for printing books in Ukraine, we're making units, literally. And the whole list that the publishers gave us, we've looked at it carefully, we've already worked some time, and we've seen what we need, what we don't need. We're not making any changes. That list, which was originally given, he arranges for the publisher, the equipment, including the equipment you mentioned, goes at zero VAT rates and without duty in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u12	Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u13	Mikhailo Kosov, Julia Timoshenko faction, Reform and Order Party. Please tell me, I literally had the opportunity yesterday to read the same draft law that was developed in the Cabinet of Ministers. It's there on September 8th of this year. I mean, literally, recently it's designed and passed on to us. So, what do you think, Oleg Anatolyevich, will there be any differences? Although I remember your suggestions before the law, I think there are no differences. But just in case, we'd have to stick together these two laws that you represent and the Cabinet of Ministers. And in general, there was no doubt in Lviv at the 15th International Book Forum that there was a lot of concern that the previous law would cease to work, ah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u14	Indeed, today all book publishers are watching with great interest and tension on television because there have been many calls, and everyone expects the bill to be passed, adopted as a law. We have no fundamental differences with the law of the Cabinet of Ministers. As far as I know, we're only one year apart. We have been borrowing five years under WTO transitional rules. And I think we should use these five years. Under the Cabinet of Ministers Act, one year less. I think it would be appropriate to give the floor to Vasili Grigorievich, who might have put forward the position of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u15	Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u17	What's your last name? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u18	Shevchenko Vasil Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u19	Shevchenko Vasil Grigorovich. There's no objection to giving Vasil Ivanovich one minute, is there? Thank you. Please, Vasil Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u20	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable national deputies, I would like to say that the Cabinet of Ministers will support this bill. It's exactly the same as the bill that was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Mr. Kosov said he's actually a government now in place. The difference is that there is a difference in one year. The Cabinet of Ministers bill by 2014, five-year deadline, and a bill of MPs by 2015. Let me tell you about the losses that the distinguished national MP has been talking about. That's about 100 million dollars a year. That's right. I'll tell you one sentence: if you cancel the tax legislation, the book's increase will be an average of 35 to 40 percent. And only in the government budget order that exists today will we have to add another 100 million. A bracelet a year to withstand the amount of publications that are being made. So we're not actually losing anything, but we understand what social expectations are now in society from bookkeepers, from consumers. It's a global practice. So I ask the MPs to support this bill, and, if possible, both on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u21	Colleagues, we're signing up. Five minutes from the National Deputies and speak from the factions. As long as the statement goes on record, I point out that, in accordance with the requirements of the Provisional Rules, if the budget is in any way related to the revenue or expenditure portion of the State Budget, there should be, in any event, the conclusion of the Committee on Budgets. I don't see the conclusion of the budget committee in the materials of the case. Mr. Kirilchuk, please sign up for the performance. If there's a record, then we'll give you a word from the Budget Committee. Please include Eugene Kirilchuku’s microphone, followed by national deputies for the conclusion of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u22	Thank you. Kirilczuk, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Indeed, we have considered this bill. We looked at it as just budgeting. And the profile committee was looking at it and making a decision for it. But we can get help from each one of them. I'll say the budget committee supports it. And the money is already in the new budget for this. If there's a conflict in terms of quantity, there, millions, I think when we change the budget, we'll take that into account. The law will support the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u23	Katerina Vashuk, “Block of Lithuania”. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, "Block of Lithuania" fully supports the bill. I think there's probably no person in this room who doesn't care how little there is on the benches of our bookstores -- and how not enough books published in Ukraine in Ukrainian, especially children's books, children's literature, books that are now the works of our native writers, poets, journalists. After all, we, as no one else, have to take care of the country's literature, the culture of the country, the development of our language and literature in Ukraine. Therefore, the “Block of Lithuania ” is voting in favour of this law. And we thank the developers who delivered it on time today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u25	Vladimir Karpuk. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, of course, it's a very important law, and the faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" certainly supports it. At the same time, I would like to point out that such laws in our neighbours -- Belarus, Russia -- have been in effect since the beginning of their independence. And there's much better success in the bookstore. Because we now have 1.4 books per inhabitant, when a few years ago it was even 0.7-0.8. Our neighbors have three or four times as many as they do in their own language. In Western European countries, there are five to six times more books per capita than in Ukraine. So the adoption of this law is just the first step. And you don't have to count the budget losses here, the budget costs, because the losses because we don't publish the Ukrainian book are much higher. Because in the book market, and this really showed up very brightly at the 15th book forum in Lviv, and in other book forums, Ukraine looks worse than other countries. That's why the problem is that it's the distribution book. We have to do the benefits for those who distribute the book, because most of the district centers now have no bookstores, not to mention villages. It's a very difficult situation for books to go to library funds. I often go to rural libraries and practically give up -- that's a few dozen books. Especially is there not enough, as Catherine Timofievna, a child’s book, said. That's why we have to do the benefits for the distribution of books and, above all, for the admission of books to libraries and, above all, for the children's books. Another important problem is financing the program that is. Although these funds have been allocated to the Ukrainian Book programme in recent years, there are few: of the 20 million in Ukraine, 40 million have been allocated for this purpose. And in previous years, there was a multifaceted circulation of people sitting in this room, of compilations that were multifaceted, but they didn't exactly produce a Ukrainian book. So Parliament, indeed, should make the book publishing work, the book distribution of its priorities, and provide, indeed, every Ukrainian citizen with a very Ukrainian book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u27	Valerius Babenko. Vladimir Yavorowski. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u28	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, I am with Oleg the King's coauthor of this bill. Because of this, my position has been completely clear to you and transparent that I support it, and the "Julia Timoshenko Block" will fully support this bill. I just wanted to remind you that our neighbours, Russia, have done very wisely. They're these Russian-speaking benefits, the book published in Russia, so to speak, they've introduced these benefits a long time ago. And I have to tell you, in Russia today, after oil, gas, forest, there seems to be coal in the fifth place -- book business. Russia today has powerful polygraph giant combinations. Go to a Russian bookstore, believe me, the eyes are just running. Most importantly, this book is cheap. Since Russia distributes this particular product all over this post-Radians, and it's still deliberately costing it, you can imagine when a Ukrainian reader comes to the same Petrovka or any bookstore and there's a book by the Ukrainian writer, say, Dimarov or Vasil Sklar, or Lina Kostenko or anyone, and there's exactly the same volume, the same volume, the same volume, the same prose or the same poetry, the book that's being published in Russia. The Russian book costs two and a half times what our book costs. Since humans speak Russian fluently, it is clear that this Ukrainian book will be there for a long time. One more thing I'd like to say. Society, we should not discuss these hundreds of millions, for this is already a valid norm. It was working now, we're just going to prolong it, we're just going to continue it, and Kirilczuk has already said exactly that when we're building up the final version of our budget law, we can take that into account. It's very important, and we have to say that, of course, the law does not provide for aid for advertising. We shouldn't do that. It does not provide for aid, such as for erotic literature and so forth. That's exactly what the Dry Colleague said. It's all foresight. Because I think it's very reasonable for us today to accept this bill and not delay it, because we're already a little late because we had to take it earlier to get it started, but it's an extreme situation, so to speak, because we're asking Arsenija Petrovich to put it on the first and second readings, and let this bill work. Holy and good work we will do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u29	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, the worst thing we could do is talk about it again by adopting this law, it's to bring politics back to the good legislative idea of supporting the Ukrainian book. I really wouldn't want that to happen in this session room. The point is that publishers themselves have to ensure that interesting authors are printed, fascinating stories filled with spiritual content. And it is wonderful that the authors of this bill include the head of the Association of Ukrainian Writers. And Volodymyr Alexanderovich, as it were, and the flag in his hands. This search for talented authors, for interesting authors, for the language of writing these books, must certainly be the work of creative people. Our case, the case of the Ukrainian legislature, creates all the elements of legislative support, creates all the conditions for the preference of publishing books in Ukraine. I am deeply convinced that this bill that we are considering is the very law that can not only unite the session hall, but certainly should and should unite the political elites in Ukraine. I did not accidentally ask questions about equipment, but I remember the difficulty we had in creating a publishing base for the Ukrainian book in Zaporozhye. And when the first book was printed, a reprinted edition with the foreword of Bogdan Lepko and the post-academic of Joulein’s “Eneida” of Kotlarev’s 1926 edition in Berlin, which was a great joy. But on an old polygraph base, it's impossible to transmit the whole grotesque, the grunting of Kotlarevski. And when we started shopping abroad, and it turns out that this is all a myth, and then it turned out on these customs all sorts of weird things, as it can be, it can't be done, but if it's really necessary, of course you can. And we were going to look for some arguments, so it's just great that this bill deprives customs services of ambiguous treatment of customs legislation. Because it is quite clear that if equipment is purchased for polygraphs that are not produced in Ukraine, if paints are ordered, raw materials are ordered, it is certainly not necessary to be taxed. The State does not have the right to punish its publisher for his own cost of printing books in Ukraine. The Party of the Regions, the faction of the Party of the Regions supports this bill and supports the proposal of the co-author of this bill, like Vladimir Yavorowski, to vote in favour of this bill as a whole, in the first reading and as a whole. It'll be a gift to ours, in those little readers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u31	Son of a bitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u32	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Stéphane Kurpil, “Cloque du Yulia timoshenko”. The basic merit of this law that we will adopt is primarily its long - term action. Polygraph companies will be able to plan their activities for years to come. The last bookstore in Lviv showed how much the book is needed and needed in Ukrainian society. Those vast crowds of people who were looking for the book gave evidence that it was a specific commodity. Of course, our neighbours, the Russians, had demonstrated this a long time ago, and they are now very much in the Ukrainian market. But they went a little further, and they also gave great benefits to publishing newspapers and magazines. And it also helped them win the Ukrainian newspaper market. Undoubtedly, the benefits that are available to polygraph companies are good. And this law needs to be passed in general. But we still have to go back to it because, for example, benefits exist mainly on polygraph machines that we don't produce. But we also don't have cutting machines, we don't have folding machines, we don't have sewing machines, we don't have counting machines, we don't have lots of other polygraphic equipment without which a quality book can't be made. Therefore, it will be necessary to return and expand the basic polygraph equipment to which VAT benefits are extended. Our faction unanimously, I think, will support this bill, which I call upon all of you, honourable colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u33	Peter Gashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u34	Many things have already been said, and I will briefly say that I support the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and I propose to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u35	Oleg Zarubinski, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I hope that the authors of the bill, and I believe so, thought not about the extra profits of polygraphists, but about achieving greater competitiveness, the competitiveness of our Ukrainian books. Why do I say that? Because it's very difficult to find a printer where polygraphists would print on the liquor equipment imported from abroad just books. And so I have a question, and how will this polygraph be diversified on the equipment that's imported at the tax rates, let's say, actually, with the tax dollars where the election booklets are going to be. Where are the pamphlets, where are the cards? They will not be printed on the equipment that is imported into Ukraine under the tax system. Obviously, the drafters would have to think about it. One second. Clearly, as the experts put it, the Ukrainian book is determined not only by the cost but also by the distribution system and the content of the book. I understand that the bill could not formulate any canons and criteria to make the book just as basic as quality. Similarly, it is not your goal to formulate positions so that all bookstores throughout Ukraine are not destroyed, especially in district centers, and do not be transformed into casinos and gaming rooms for gaming machines. You've done everything you can. But I would like to ask how the person who read your bill, and why until 2015? What is the term of six years, why not for ten years, not for fifteen years, not for four years, not for five years? Is such a term called? Perhaps a rhetorical question, but I'd like to know, maybe for ten years, it's possible that the bookkeeper can see the perspective, see what he can expect. You can see, if you like, your profits in five or ten years. And the next moment, Arsenius Petrovich, you said, there is no conclusion of the Ministry of Finance. We need to be serious about the law - enforcement work. There is no conclusion, no conclusion reached by the Ministry of Finance. This bill affects the income base of the State Budget, obviously not your problem, not the problem of the drafters of the bill, but the problem of the clean and incomplete passage of drafts in the session room. Like my colleague Vaschuk, I fully support this bill. I think it's going to be a push, or an incentive to publish the Ukrainian book, and the writers in this room will obviously make sure that quality is better, because without it there will also be no competitiveness.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u37	Yes, comrades, I have a few questions with your permission. Identify who will answer the question, or our colleague, Oleg Anatoliyovich, or the Department of State. The first question is about terms. It was written: “By January 1st 2015”. Where did this term come from?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u38	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the bill of government, by January 1, 2014, is proposed. The drafters proposed a fixed term. He's totally in line with the government, only one more year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u39	That's why I'm asking. You know that, it's black written, it's written in the bill by 2015, and it's in the explanatory table by 2014. I mean, what do we take? We vote in the fourteenth year or the fifteenth year, paragraph one. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u40	The King’s and Jaborowski’s bill is written, clearly defined by January 1, 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u41	And in the comparative table, we have it written by January 1, 2014. Here's the first question, on the second reading, we're going to determine what is the term of the extension of these benefits. Second question. Tell me, please, these benefits are in place right now, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u43	So what we're actually doing is actually editing the law of change that's going to extend the term of these benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u44	We're just changing the terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u45	Question: Why, then, despite the fact that these benefits exist today, do we have a dominant bookkeeping product produced in countries other than Ukraine, despite the presence of benefits?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u46	Arsenija Petrovich, I will answer because the similar benefits introduced in Russia since 1996, they have been able to do what we have not yet been able to do, this is not immediately done, the situation has clearly stabilized in the book study. To date, we've doubled the number of names, from 9,000 to 18 in 2007 and the numbers are increasing progressively. Today the government has taken steps to restore the distribution network. Arsenija Petrovich, the main problem is that Ukrainian publishers have no place to sell books. The solution to the problem of distribution will increase circulation by approximately threefold. So this is real progress. I would say only in such a way that, Arsenius Petrovich, before the introduction of the law, this dominance was already, we are improving it, but it is not working immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u47	Question three. I'm sorry I'm so boring, but I want to chrome for what we're about to vote for. This bill does not apply to language, any book published in Ukrainian, Russian, English, Chinese, but which is published in Ukraine is subject to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u48	This is about domestic publishing entities as recipients of the benefits, regardless of the language in which they will print the book in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u49	And regardless of the form of ownership. I mean, conditionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u50	And regardless of the form of ownership.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u51	A Ukrainian subject owned by Poles I told the Poles on condition, I don't want to go into it. Whether the benefits will be distributed to him or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u52	We have limitations on having a Ukrainian subject. This is the exact article on the entry into the WTO, which has a five - year transitional term. We have no more than 30 percent in the statutory fund but foreign capital. But it is subjects of the publishing business, registered in Ukraine according to the current Ukrainian legislation. Only this subject will receive the benefits indicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u53	Can I ask you one last question?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u55	God will give, and Parliament will vote in the first and second readings, and in general for the bill. How do you feel about the three-year perspective, and I'm going to ask you, frankly, how do you share the market in the larger portion of the increase in orders with Ukrainian bookkeepers? Will it be, or won't it be? Because in the explanatory note about the consequences of the adoption of this law, zero is written on the subject. What economic effect will the Ukrainian publisher have on the adoption of this law? How much do we have to increase the legal position?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u56	So to date, this bill should be seen as just one of the systemic steps to overcome the problems of bookkeeping and to reach a completely different level of development in Ukraine. In addition, the issue of credit and distribution is now being resolved. I think for three or five years we're going to be able to get about three times as many circulations and about three times as many by name. That's the economic effect we're going to have. I'll tell you why for 3-5 years. Because it's not all at once. The distribution network is now, on the initiative of the government, taking orders, we want to go to one bookstore for 20,000 people. This is the position of the government. So let's say we're going to be able to do this in a way that's going to make sure that the budget is going to give us the money to get, to get the bank loans that exist, but with the credit rates. And so the mortgage would be a book, not an apartment, or whatever the publisher has today. It will certainly provide an opportunity and a impetus to development. It's just a complex and a system of measures. But in this sense, the law on the extension of tax legislation is one of the main systemic steps. So he, he should be regarded as the first step that was rightly said by the national MP, which would allow him to move very clearly forward. There will be other steps. So once again, I ask you to support this bill on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u57	Did the Zedev codes change with the State Service? Who is aware of this situation? Because there is no material from the Maintenance Service either.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u58	This is where drafting was introduced in order to bring these changes into line.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u59	I go to the authors and to the rapporteurs of the bill on such drafts, well, it's wrong that I'm starting to figure out all these things in the session room: Come on, fellows, for now we're putting the first reading, and now I'm going to make you an offer for the second reading. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of Bill No. 2302 on amending some of the Ukrainian laws relating to State support for the bookstore in Ukraine. Vote. [[16:42:15]] For 393 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, for the second reading. It's only a matter of advice. So we already have two dates, which are foreseen in one draft law, but for unclear reasons they don't match. This is 2015 and 2014, half a second, 2015 and 2014. Well, there's no clear justification for these dates. Well, that's just how they made the decision by 2015, so that it would be. I have an offer if we vote for a second reading to your discretion to shorten these terms by 2012. [[B in m in s a l in]] Explain why. Don't argue, colleagues. Wait, don't wave your hands. No, yeah. The year 2009 is also three years in fact to be completed. Because we've just been told that we need at least three years. We're going to give you four. I ask you to express yourself in this position. Please log in, please log in, three minutes. My colleagues, I'll explain again. I have an offer to support all the reporters so that we can adopt this bill in second reading and in general. Did you hear that? So that's why I'm asking you to say whether we're leaving it on the first reading, or let's take it on the second reading as a whole. Victor Lozinski, please. Vladimir Yavorowski. I ask the MPs to behave normally, not to shout, to vote or not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u60	Dear Mr. Head, Arsenija Petrovich, first of all, to say. I don't know, we're around this law one day, some of your dances don't quite make sense to me. I'm sorry, I'm being honest. You understand that what is written in the explanatory note, an explanatory note after we vote, is thrown out and forgotten once and for all. The law is now in effect. The law has a very clear date. Because of this, it is not the reason that today, let us say, we should set this date straight. Because of this, it is absolutely important today that I understand perfectly, and we have all found out. I don't remember such a pedantic discussion when it was like this bill. Put him to a second vote, and the results of the vote will show you everything. Thank you very much, don't be offended.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u61	No offense. But since I respect the very national deputy of Yavorowski, I respect his signature. And the Yavorowski National MP in the explanatory note and not only in the explanatory table, but in the comparative table, signed under 2014. If I hadn't signed, I wouldn't have asked. Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u62	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the lawmakers have always written that there is no limit to the perfection of legislation. Laws can be improved and improved constantly. Of course there are errors, of course there is a perceived slap, but, in fact, the explanatory note does not change the text of the law. All of them unanimously supported the presentation. If there are any of your and other suggestions, you will make them later and you will be able to improve the law. Now, we would ask you to put him to the vote, and the hall is determined how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u63	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u64	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should put it to a second vote and vote in general, because the 2015 deadline allows us to develop a strategy both for book distribution and for providing and rural libraries, and for solving all the problems related to the bookkeeping in Ukraine. This will allow us to solve these problems, and I think all of us in Ukraine will be grateful. So let's vote for the term proposed by the authors who support Mr. Shevchenko, 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u65	Valerius Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, well, we're going to do a very faithful thing if we're going to endorse it in general. I think let's not take time, we still have enough important bills, and we're still going to be able to get them today. I propose to vote and move on to the next bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u67	Sergei Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u68	Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u69	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u70	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. I think Arsenius Petrovich, your honorary colleagues, that if I adjust the term of this law, I hope it will become the law, not the reduction, but the increase. In general, it seems to me that economists understand that building a business, and it's clear that book publishing is not an oligarchi business, you have to have a perspective, and you have to have a strategy. So I think if the drafters did determine by 2015, they're entitled to it. But I'd like to take 20 seconds to say that the question isn't at all about this, but the question is that this bill isn't built under the electoral campaign, and that it's going to be on the relief equipment, and that it doesn't have electoral cards, pamphlets, agitators, and so on, and that it really does apply to the Ukrainian book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u71	Colleagues, even if we don't accept it, it's all equal to the premium rates until January 1, 2009. So they'll be able to drive. Second: regarding terms. I heard your offer, colleagues. I tried to protect the government, but God knows it, and more specifically, that in 2012 or 2015 no one knows what government will be. That's why I heard you. I support your proposal to vote in the second reading and in general. Is there no objection to voting in the second reading and in general? None. I am voting on this bill in the second reading and in general. [[16:49:19]] For 402 Decision taken. Hello. I would like to say that when there was a meeting of faction leaders, we agreed to vote only on the first reading. But today we've shown that factions don't define factions, but Parliament as a whole. Let's move on to the next bill, which is very interesting. What do you want for short? A good bill could be discussed. Well, no problem. Interesting, let's do a little bit of short notice. Let's put Bill 3151 on short notice. [[16:50:15.]] For-300 Please show by factions. Region Party – 154, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 141, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 5, “Litvina Block” – 0. Colleagues, let's move on to a reduced procedure. Bill 3151 is being proclaimed. Sveslav Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, I was, frankly, not preparing for a reduced procedure, because I anticipated that there would be a discussion on this bill. I'll try to get into these two minutes. The title of the bill already follows, and it is clear that it is intended to protect the provisions of the Constitution, namely those relating to the protection of the constitutional system. Indeed, article 69 of the Constitution provides for forms of nationalization that are direct and delegated. Delegates include elections and referendums, the direct form of popular will are rallying, demonstrations, campaigns and so on. There is now criminal responsibility for illegal interference with congregations, rallies, marches, and demonstrations. The drafters propose to strengthen this criminal responsibility and to extend it to cases where military personnel, law enforcement officials, the Ukrainian Security Service, internal forces and other military forces are involved. In particular, we propose to add additional parts to these categories of silos, also separately for the categories of leaders who issue orders, i.e. for issuing an order aimed at hindering these forms of direct democracy. And in the event that, God forbid, these actions lead to the loss of human life, responsibility is offered until the end of the day. What is the purpose of this bill? To place a dot once and for all, even by trying to hinder the peaceable and to abandon the people armed with them so that they, peaceful people, can exercise their constitutional right. The second part of the bill deals with the protection of the constitutional system in Ukraine and it is called “the non-usurpation of state power by unlawful dissolution”. What's this one for? Do you need a rule of law? The fact is that the term “usurpation of power” comes out of article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u73	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u74	The term “usurpation” explained by the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2005, which indicates that it could be any action of the State, its officials, aimed at. But in another unconstitutional way. This comes from a decision of the Constitutional Court since 2005. And this other way is one of the forms where, by the way, the same decision of the Constitutional Court clearly states that the guarantee of the constitutional system is the principle of dividing power into legislative, executive and judicial. A corresponding violation or violation of this principle of power-sharing poses a threat to national security, to Ukraine’s national security. I'd like to go very briefly, because the time is like this, if it were to come off, to say that, in fact, what is the social danger? There are powers that apply exclusively to the competence of the Supreme Council. In particular, this is a mandate that applies, for example, to the appointment of the President of Ukraine's election. The same article 90 states that there can be no short-term suspension of the powers of the Supreme Council six months before the expiration of the term of office of the President. If, for example, he wants to do this in spite of these provisions of the Constitution, it will be a specific usurpation. Because the Supreme Council will not be able to appoint the President's next election. Or another option. The disfellowshipped powers of the Supreme Council include, for example, the decision to provide military assistance to another State. I am personally convinced that it was the Supreme Council that did not allow Ukraine to engage in military conflicts in September this year. Dear colleagues, I think the explanatory note makes sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u75	Please sit down. Colleagues, we voted in favour of a reduced procedure. We should not have voted back then. Valery Ananiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u76	Honorary colleagues, the Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee, considered Bill 3151. And of the 17 members of our committee, 10 present at the committee meeting voted unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council for consideration in the first reading and adoption on the basis of the bill. There's a question. I'm ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u77	Valery Ananiyovich, there are no questions. Sit down, thank you. Colleagues, two for, two against. Peter Gashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u78	Peter Hashuk, faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. I'm going to briefly say that the Yulia Tymoshenko Block will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u79	It's Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u80	I request the transfer of Elena Lukas, Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u81	Lukas.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it might not be necessary to adopt this bill if we did not live or try to live in a legal state if the President of Ukraine did not appoint the executive heads of administration without a government, if we did not manage the executive responsibilities of the SBU and today the President of Ukraine did not claim that Ukraine needed NATO and NATO, if we did not lead the NTC again in performing its duties, if Parliament did not vote on certain legislative procedures and daily we did not see interference in the activities of the executive authorities by the President and his secretariat if we did not observe the continuous issuance of non-constitutional decrees if we did not see the State involved in military conflicts and so on. In view of the fact that the law is the regulator of social relations, and the social relations we have today are so sad, we are obliged to vote on this bill. And I call on my colleagues whether they have discussed the possibility of amending the Criminal Code in order to establish criminal responsibility for evading their constitutional obligation to sign, formally publish or return the law with their motivated and formulated proposals. And we also need to increase the participation, the responsibility for the participation of Secretariat staff or other unknown persons for developing such proposals, seeing them personally, and not taking any responsibility, as in the case of the destruction of the process of launching the National Electoral Register, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u83	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u84	Please pass the word to John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u85	John the Rabbit from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of this bill continues on September 2nd, "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko" and the Party of Regions' destructive parliamentary activity aimed at unleashing instability in government and in society as a whole. I realize that it is always easier to catch fish in water. Alexander Lavrinovich and Alexander Portnova's draft is a powerful example of how you can go very far in your heroic, destructive activities, if you don't get out of national interests, not out of human rights, but out of hate, at least not in the eyes of any kind. In this case, this is President Viktor Yushchenk. Because if it were the other way around, they would write directly in this bill, which would stop the Supreme Council's mandate, not just some faceless person, but the President of Ukraine. And there are formal signs of termination of the Supreme Council, and only the President can be responsible for breaking these formal signs. So if you are honest politicians, write it so directly, and that's how you actually provoke society, because you're talking about stopping the authority of the Supreme Council without telling the specific subject who can do it, maybe it's like anyone. And then you write this down with the articles and you scare people into doing that to the B.B.I., it can do that to the M.E.S., it can do that to other law enforcement institutions. That's exactly the danger of this bill, because it's not meant to put order in order to write authorizations, but actually to instigate some gangs, some mob to usurp power. I'm not talking anymore about purely theoretical things that the usurpation of power is referred to by the Constitutional Court as the violent capture or restraint of this power. That's a bill you're narrowing down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u88	Whatever the Communists with the Party of Regions are shouting, everyone knows very well that whatever envelope you're making, this bill is indeed an activity aimed at destabilizing power and weakening our state. So I urge all normal people who really care about the fate of Ukraine, the fate of the Ukrainian State, not to vote in favour of this bill. I'm not talking about the Rules anymore. When you passed this bill 15 and today we have to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u89	Thank you. Sergei Greenewecki. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u90	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! If a draft Ukrainian law is to be considered as part of a special operation to force the power of entry into the constitutional field, it should be considered in a fairly solid expanded version, not in a simplified procedure. And in general, in the first reading of the decision, I would like to propose a solid analysis of how the current standards of constitutional order and constitutional observance are being implemented. Then we can look at these issues, and in this mode, we're just getting even more stuck with the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. Alexander Lavrinovich, as his last name was.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I have heard a historic speech here, and I want to say that obviously the national interests of the Ukrainian State have the primary protection of the Ukrainian Constitution, not by trampling on the basic law of our state. And if a Ukrainian citizen, regardless of his position, violates the traffic rules, he is called upon to be responsible for administrative or criminal matters. And if a person violates the Basic Law of the State and does so with purpose and cynicalness, it is obvious that it is necessary to provide for punishment. If there are no other deterrence tools in our country that do not allow those who are prone to wrongdoing, who tend to be mania of greatness, to be legal instruments to restrain them. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u93	Dear colleagues! Sadly, not everyone in our country is called to account. For example, they do not attract Ukrainian national deputies, such as judges. Colleagues, let's put it to a vote. Fellows, can you act normal?Oh, my God! Why are you yelling like a zoo?Oh, my God! Let's put it to a vote. Dear National Deputies! Let us put to the vote Bill No. 3151 “On making changes to certain laws of Ukraine on additional ones ” on the basis of which we can make changes. [[on additional measures to ensure the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine]] Vote. [[17:04:29]] For 349 Please show by faction, decision taken, prepare for second reading. Let's move on. Bill No. 2031. What are you yelling at?Oh, my God! The factions? Please show me. Three minutes, sign up. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u94	Dear colleagues! Ukraine's highest legislative body is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we don't need any guidance here either. This is about protecting the constitutional rights not only of citizens but also of the Ukrainian state. It's an extremely important bill, it doesn't have any objection from thinking people other than hysterical throats. So I propose that this bill be voted in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u95	Vladimir Karpuk. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u96	First of all, dear colleagues, calm down, I assure you that before this bill I will have at least a hundred amendments and I will insist on considering each of them separately. And now that I've heard the words of my colleague and the former minister of justice, I'd like to say that you know, frankly, I've never heard more of a frostbite in this room. This is about putting the President of Ukraine in prison for twelve years if he is permanently disbanding Parliament in a way that is not provided for by the Constitution. Who will decide whether the Constitution provides or not? So, the investigator and the prosecutor, are you, perhaps, the distinguished representatives of the procremian majority? Or you may take your instructions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u97	Oleg Lukashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u98	I give the word to Sasu. Please pass the word to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u99	Sas, please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u100	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Dear Chief, in view of what is proposed for second reading, I understand that I ask, in accordance with section 2 of article 111, to put to the vote a proposal to shorten the deadlines for the second reading by half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u101	It's a normal decision. Colleagues, next offer. Thus, there has never been a second reading of a bill voted in this Parliamentary Chamber in the event that there has been a denial of at least one Ukrainian national deputy and this time it will not be. So, as much as I can do, I would like to support the proposal made by the national MP, Sasa, to shorten the deadlines for the second reading twice, please vote. [[17:08:15]] For 346 Decision taken. The next bill, number 2031, Natala Juryovna Kraljevska, is being announced. Please, Natalie Yuriovn. Let us give the word of Plotnikov, and Natali Juryovna will come. Yes. Stop! Stop! Stop! First Natalie Yuriovn and then Comrade Plotnikov. Come on, let's miss the beautiful woman. Well, get up, you can't make up, get up, get up, if we kick women out of the rostrum, get up, all right. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u102	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is on the proposal of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of entrepreneurial activities. In particular, amendments are being made to the Act on State Support for Small Business and to the Ukrainian Economic Code. If today’s legislation defines small business as a business where 50 people work and annual gross income does not exceed 500 000 euros, this annual amount changes to 70 million dollars, according to the proposed changes. So that's all that goes into these laws. What is the purpose of these changes? The goal is to harmonise the definition of small business in Ukraine with small businesses in developed countries with a normal economic climate, with a market economy. If, according to world statistics, up to 70 percent of GDP in countries around the world is producing small businesses, it turns out in Ukraine that this is only 10 percent, because we have a slightly different understanding of what small businesses are. Moreover, such changes will result in small businesses not hiding their traffic, not hiding the number of participants, they will work more freely, they will use new technologies, and they will use this indicator again, which is proposed to change. And besides that, it's going to improve the lives of the enterprise, because small businesses don't have such a big tax burden on other businesses. Given that this proposed bill comes out solely of a change in one indicator, I propose that it be accepted as a whole. That's all right, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u103	Please, five minutes of question-answer. Polachenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u104	Thank you, Your Honor, I have a question not to the author of the bill, but to the organizers of the agenda. Because there's my bill, 2560 of the same question. Unfortunately, the new majority did not put it in order of the day, although we know that alternative bills are usually discussed together. Both of our bills apply to the very definition of the criteria of a small enterprise. I would like to know why this is the case, why was the consideration of an alternative bill on this subject rejected?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u105	Well, as I understand it, my bill was introduced in February of this year. The bill of colleague Lápiná was introduced in May this year when he passed the committee, well, passed that bill, which passed first in order of introduction. Well, then it's an organization. No, well, that's not a question for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u106	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u107	One more time, Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u108	Thank you, fellows of honor! I simply agree with my colleague that this is a clear violation of the rules. Because it doesn't matter which bill was filed sooner or later. Alternative laws are traditionally and regularly discussed in one paragraph. So we already see a clear reluctance to look at some kind of authorship bill. It's not like I can handle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u109	Mountain.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u110	Gorina, Party of Regions. I would like to say that, unfortunately, there have been virtually no laws in this room recently that deal with small and medium-sized businesses. And yesterday was the first law that was very important, it was about equity societies. And today's the second law. This year there were 10 years of entrepreneurship and a simplified tax system. I believe that our budget is being replenished by those entrepreneurs who are working in such difficult economic conditions that we now have, and we must support them and we must support them with such proper progressive bills that promote and bring us closer to European standards, even though we now have a very difficult situation with the entry of WTO, this bill is very important and necessary. And I'm asking him to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u111	Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u112	I want to thank the drafters for what they've developed, really, a bill aimed at supporting small businesses. I am convinced that the Supreme Council today is demonstrating in its activities the desire and the opportunity to support you both as authors and as a small and medium-sized business. I am confident that we will give the necessary number of votes today. The Yulia Timoshenko faction supports your initiative, and in the same spirit, we look forward to further initiatives to support small and medium-sized businesses. More of that gratitude and I want to ask you, what other initiatives in this direction are you planning to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u113	Well, we have the right work on development and entrepreneurial climate, and on improving the situation in the same small business. Come on, I'm not going to share plans right now, it's going to be a little bit unfair, but I assure you, as these bills are formed, we will definitely bring them to the appropriate committee and, of course, this important topic and what Mrs. Gorin said is very important for the development of the entrepreneurial climate in the state, for the development of the investment climate, of course, it will find further development.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u114	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u115	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, the city of Zaporozhye, the Party of the Regions I have a question for the author. As I asked my colleague Irina Gorin, it was clear that it would be good if there were more of these bills in the session room, which would be aimed at supporting not only small and medium-sized entrepreneurial activities, but at providing legislative support to the basic sectors of the national economy. This political crash and I somehow forgot that the first one was the second one. We're handing out, like Did Frost, these gifts, forgetting issues like self-worth, profitability, productivity. So I have a question for you that follows what character. And please tell me, as the author of the bill, have you calculated the social impact, the positive social impact on society, on employed workers, on the budget in the event of the adoption and implementation of the basic provisions of this bill 2031? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u116	Thank you for asking. This is a very important question, given that the first social impact is an increase in the number of jobs. Next. It's the ability of citizens to legally get wages on small businesses. You don't have to hide that. That they're paying because businesses can't hide their traffic. So from this point of view, this is a certain step towards legalizing a shadow economy that exists in the area of small business. And as for the corresponding increase in revenue, once again, it's natural, because if businesses start to legally display their turnover, there's legal tax payments and corresponding budget filling. I mean, in any case, it's good in terms of both social and budgetary policy, in general, in terms of an adequate perception of the economy of Ukraine and the world economy. So there will be some criteria that are small businesses for both Ukraine and France, Germany or other countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u117	Thank you. Please, have a seat. Natalia Yuriovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u118	The honourable chairman, honourable fellow MPs, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on September 4, 2008, reviewed the draft Act amending certain acts of Ukraine in the area of entrepreneurship, registration number 2031, to be amended. The purpose of the bill is to define small business in the light of modern world standards. We all know that the basic framework for small and medium-sized enterprises was developed in 2000 and, of course, is no longer in line with the standards set in the economy in 2008. In 2008, we reached the highest rate of growth in entrepreneurship. In just eight months this year, the number of entrepreneurs increased by 100,000. the number of enterprises involved in the business sector by 200,000. Employment. This year our entrepreneurs celebrated the 10th anniversary. By the 10th anniversary, 10 million people were involved in entrepreneurship. Ukrainians. By the number of entrepreneurs per thousand, we have reached European standards. Unfortunately, however, we still have something to work on. In democratic countries around the world, small entrepreneurship is recognized as one of the most important factors in the political and social stability of society. The European Small Business Charter defines small business as the backbone of the European Union economy. The current state of small entrepreneurship and new economic conditions determine the need to revise the regulatory framework for small entrepreneurship development in Ukraine. Small entrepreneurship around the world is an instrument of competition for the economy, and through this prism is seen as the most important component of the development of democracy, the main formation of the middle class in the country. During the discussion of the bill, the Committee drew attention to the fact that the criterion for annual production of products in Ukraine was 20 times lower for small business entities than for European Union countries. And of course, such a huge difference within the classification of economic operators weakens the position of Ukrainian entrepreneurs in competition in both external and domestic Ukrainian markets. This is particularly relevant, as my fellow Members have already noted today, when Ukraine joins the World Trade Organization. There is a risk of the application of world competition standards and WTO rules to Ukrainian operators. If the upper annual limit for small business entities is established in Ukraine, the volume of small business is 10 million. The euro will align the conditions of competition and unify Ukraine's spheres of responsibility under the WTO Agreement with other countries of the world. The adoption of the bill and the new criteria will help to categorize clearly the categories of businesses that are who in our country. This will make the State take more seriously the identification of small business policies and prepare a package of proposals for each business: small, medium and microbusiness. Undoubtedly, the bill would remove a number of problems in tax and credit policy-making. Banks and tax services will be more flexible and accurate in developing and working with entrepreneurs, rather than scratching everyone under one reef. A part of the business will be encouraged to withdraw from the shadows activities that were not comfortable with the existing conditions. Another part of entrepreneurs who have been taken on an equal footing with large businesses will be able to obtain rights and opportunities to support small businesses, reduce the number of checks, and time limits, which is, of course, one of the most necessary requirements for small businesses. Another moment I want to talk about. We have all recently witnessed that the World Bank, assessing the simplicity of business in Ukraine, has given us a disgraceful 145th place from 181 countries around the world. And I believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is also responsible for such a situation. Why, because there is only one law that has been passed throughout our entrepreneurship work, and one that has dealt with adaptation to the requirements of the World Trade Organization. Dozens of bills are dead. And I hope that today we have begun to consider legislation that aims at facilitating the lives of entrepreneurs and will, in the future, enable us to effectively help entrepreneurs, not in words, but in passed bills that we have not adopted since 2000, in the Supreme Council. Taking into account this argument, members of the committee decided to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on regulation of entrepreneurial activities for consideration by the Supreme Council. [[2031]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u119	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u120	to consider the Supreme Council of Ukraine and propose to accept it as a basis and generally as a law. This is my proposal as co-author of this bill. The Committee offered to accept the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u121	Five minutes of question-answer. Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u122	Klinkarov, the Communist faction. Natalya Jurievna, would you like to ask what is the share of small and medium-sized business in the budget today in the state budget? This time. Second, with regard to the competitive environment. How do we say that this bill will be able to provide a normal competitive environment for small and medium-sized businesses to avoid the unfair forms of competition that today exists on the part of large companies that are actually destroying small and medium-sized businesses?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u123	Thank you so much for asking. And I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in developed countries, small and medium-sized businesses have a large share of enterprises, accounting for 70 to 80 per cent of GDP in small and medium-sized enterprises. Regrettably, in Ukraine, the proportion of small enterprises in the structure of GDP does not reach 10 per cent. We very much hope that this bill will radically change this situation. With regard to creating competitive conditions, we also understand that today all those standards that are set for small businesses will extend to a part of enterprises with turnover of up to 10 million euros, allowing them to work as concessional programmes for small businesses, thus becoming more competitive than the giant business. In principle, we need to adopt a programme to amend the laws on State support for small business. Then it will be more fundamental support from our entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u124	Oleg Lukashuk. Copy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u125	I'm taking down the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u126	Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u127	I can answer that right now, Xenia Mikhaylovna. You're absolutely right to draft a bill today. I think it is necessary to turn to those who have formed the agenda and why you are not included in the bill. But, in principle, there was.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u128	But I have Natalia Yuriovna, more. One minute. Can you answer, please, whether my alternate bill has been considered on the committee, and what recommendation has the committee made regarding my bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u129	The committee considered two draftsmen, Plotnikov and the author of Lapina. Since the first bill registered with the Supreme Council was registered with Plotnikov, an alternative bill was registered after 8 months, which is already a violation of the Rules. Can I answer the final question? The committee then reviewed the bill and Plotnikov and considered the Lapina Bill. Why he's not here today as an alternative, I'm sorry, this isn't a question for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u130	Roman Zvaric. Roman Mikhailovich, you're still on record.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u131	Please give me the word of Xenia Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u132	Xenia Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u133	Thank you, Your Honor. Since I don't have one, I'll say literally one word. The Plotnikov bill, which was submitted to my bill, contained very different criteria, and you know that, Natalija Jurijovno, you know that because we were conducting public hearings on this issue. It was after these public hearings on September 3, that is, a few months after my bill, which contained European criteria, that I am grateful to Mr. Plotnikov, that he replaced his bill and placed European criteria there. However, some of the formulations, if you've noticed, are different. In particular, this applies to what subjects we take for consideration – only legal persons or individuals entrepreneurs too. So I think the recommendation to adopt a bill in general is, at least, premature. Because my formulations can complement Mr. Plotnick's bill to make it really harmonious.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u134	Thank you, Xenia Mikhaylovna. On the committee's consideration of the bill, members of the committee asked Mr. Plotnikov to finalize the bill, to pass it away, and at the next meeting of the committee, we considered it, where all European norms were adopted in accordance with all European Union standards, and the criteria today were agreed upon with the norms of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u135	Thank you. Natalia Yuriovno, one question. First. Does the bill correspond to the recommendations of the European Union in the field of small and medium-sized business? Remember, we were looking at these recommendations literally about a month or two ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u136	Yes, this bill is fully in line with the recommendations. We ask you, Arsenija Petrovich, to bring all the parliamentary hearings concerning small and medium-sized businesses into line with the rules of both the World Trade Organization and the European Charter of Small Business and European Union standards today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u137	And the second question, Natalia Yuriovno, is you suggesting in the second reading that you accept it as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u138	Yes, we offer in the second reading and in general. And we don't have to make fun of businessmen. What Xenia Mikhaylovna is proposing, we can consider, if appropriate, an amendment to the bill next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u139	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovno. Please sit down. Colleagues, we are recorded by factions and national deputies. I'm gonna need a quick one. Roman Zvaric will speak from the faction. Xenia Leapina. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, surely our faction will support this bill, because I sincerely thank the authors that after seven months of existence, they have replaced their criteria with European criteria, and today this bill is partially in line with the requirements of the European Union and the recommendations of the European Union. However, I would like to see that behind this political crash that we have just heard from the rostrum, we can tell what really is. First of all, I want to point out that these criteria have nothing to do with tax matters, especially tax checks. These criteria in no way directly ease the tax situation, because tax laws contain their own direct standards, they do not change. What does this bill really do? In fact, he does not give anything directly to small businesses today, but he gives a strategic hope, since he determines for the State what it means to do with small businesses and about which subjects to design further policies. And so if the state in the budget is going to put money into real programs to support small businesses, taking into account exactly the European criterion that is now being proposed, then, in fact, entrepreneurs will feel some kind of State policy about small business. However, I want to pay attention to why I think this bill is worth working on for the second reading. I would like to point out that today, small business subjects are referred to as small business entities without restrictions on the scope of implementation. If you want 40 billion euros, please, it will be a small enterprise. Do you feel a certain disharmony in such criteria? Moreover, it can simply be used for money laundering. Is that the purpose of today’s Supreme Council? I insist that this law needs to be worked out before the second reading, which is, in my opinion, fundamental things. In the next step, recommending to the government, not neglecting small business development, but investing money in small business support programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u141	Spiridon Kilinkarov, out of sight.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u142	Respectable members of the people, as far as the support of small and medium-sized businesses is concerned today, I think we can vote in favour of the draft law in general today. You know, as they say, perfection is beyond bounds. Therefore, we can improve legislation in the future. But today we have to give entrepreneurs a chance, say, to get on their feet. Because what is being done in the country today, the figures given today from the Parliament's rostrum with regard to the number of entrepreneurs do not really correspond to reality. Because today, bus drivers are the ones on which the business certificate is issued, although in fact one person is the curator of all these business entities. Let us, after all, give people, people whom the State cannot provide jobs today, give them the opportunity to provide themselves with jobs and feed their families. In the current situation, I don't think we have another way out of here right now. That is why I think we can adopt this law as a whole today. Further, if necessary, amend it and improve it in such a way that small and medium-sized businesses can develop normally in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u143	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u144	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, at all levels at all times from the President's mouth and from the Prime Minister's mouth, there is a key message that we need to create a middle class. The middle class creates small business, small business. The middle class is the fence of stability in the country. Where the average class is 60-80 per cent, the State ship sails safely, without shock. Regrettably, other than declarations, most often other than decisions that simply declared intentions and did not take real steps. I think that this bill just shows a real step towards promoting small business and entrepreneurship in order, indeed, to establish a middle class in the country, the foundation of social stability. Indeed it was. I was present on two committees, and it was said that Natalya Juryevna Kraljevska said that we had considered two bills and had been instructed by the Plotnikov People's MP to finalize the positive points in the Xeni Lapina Bill, well, and given the natural European standards. The bill, in my view, is completely compact, it is complete, it is real, it is really an opportunity and it gives impetus to the development of just a small business and entrepreneurship that forms the basis of the middle class of stability in the country. I think we should take it on first and second reading. And if Xenia Lapina has any other thoughts and legislative initiatives, I think that it and her bill can be considered next week. But there is no need to stop the process, to adopt it, to put it into effect, and to make the law work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u145	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u146	Dear National Deputies! Indeed, small and medium - size business needs great protection. Because the oligarchic system of power, the oligarchic business, it actually destroyed the medium and small business, and we, for today, have such a great deal of trouble in Ukraine. Specifically, the bill proposes a scale, or criteria, of referring small business entities to such a status. Ten million euros are being introduced for legal persons. Natural persons here, in this case, are not defined. What can this lead to? This can produce a psychological climate around individuals who are not comfortable with them. Because some will “wash up ” as Mafia representatives, huge funds, even hundreds of millions of euros. The second is going to be, and this is going to be 99 percent, and they're going to be doing this little business, and they're going to be suspicious of, you see, what they are, that it's a hidden business system, that they don't work for the whole people and they don't work for themselves. We should always remember that “the baton has two ends” and, on the one hand, we kind of write them down in a small enterprise, and on the other hand, we create such conditions that this social suspicion will arise and we will put these people in a very uncomfortable position, I would say, not productive for the economy. So our proposal is that this regime of criteria should apply to individuals to eventually draw up or legislatively write out one system of criteria and create one psychological regime for our enterprise. I think if the room agreed to this proposal, it would be a big step forward, because there's nothing to hide, we have this fight, we're a big business, where the sources of its origin are secret, that is, criminal business, and we don't have the middle class, because we don't have this support at the economic, legal, or psychological level of these people, the small businesses, the people of this small business. We just talk a lot, and we don't help him. So our proposal is to extend the criteria to individuals in order to be able to conduct this entrepreneurial activity legally in order to eliminate these suspicions of illegal activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u147	Yuri Miroshnichenko gives the word to John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u148	Thank you. Popescu, faction Party of the region. Dear colleagues, I am in favour of the adoption of this bill on first reading and in general. Why? First, the provisions of the bill are in line with the recommendations of the European Union and the European Small Business Charter. Secondly, the adoption of the bill would harmonize the definition and concept of small enterprises with the interpretation of such a concept in developed economies, which in turn would simplify the processes of cross-border economic cooperation. Third. This will improve the internal investment climate. Why? Because the adoption of the bill would simplify the tax system, which in turn would remove capital, because there would be no need to hide turnover. As a result, there will be additional income to the budget, additional income to the Pension Fund, jobs will be created, so there is no point now in postponing it, adopting it on first reading, I propose, and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u149	Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u150	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". In view of how today's established agenda and how we include some laws or other, I would like to understand one thing, as this is the practice of the last session, at least those who have been in the minority have listened to us and would have found at least one day to the faction “Our Ukraine”, which is now in opposition, could have expressed their laws, which in many cases will be maintained in this session hall just as we have supported the laws of the Party of the Regions. That's why I'd like to pay attention to that to today's majority -- the Party of Regions and the Yule Block of Timoshenko -- and at least one day for the laws of Our People's Self-Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u151	Reporter, the co-reporter insists on a word? Natalie Yuryovn, right? Please, it's Natalie Yuriovni's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u152	Dear colleagues, I have a big request for the entire room, so let's not now find out who's the best, who's the first to register, who's smarter, who's got any amendments, it's all right, but entrepreneurs have been waiting for this change for eight years. Well, let's just postpone our political ambitions. And today we are simply obliged to vote and protect our entrepreneurs from additional checks, to protect entrepreneurs from possible international sanctions, and, at least not long ago, we have had the Entrepreneurs' Day, to give them this bill and to enable them to continue working under more legal conditions, more civilized conditions, and we will have all of you as deputies to meet and say that we would at least take a step towards a meeting of Ukrainian entrepreneurship. Let's not take the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u153	Colleagues, I would like to ask you first of all to address Kseniya Mikhailna with one request, Kseniya Mikhailna, I would ask you very much to withdraw the second reading vote warning, to withdraw these warnings generously and to vote on this bill as a whole. And as for the amendment, we can now make an amendment out of the voice if we have it, you have it, let's talk about it right now. If it's not worded, well, then we'll take it to the next time. Why do I say that? If we don't now accept this bill in the first and second readings, and in general, it's on the committee's shelf again and we're waiting for the Russian moon. The word Kseniya Mikhailni Lapini.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u154	Thank you, fellows of honor! I would also like this bill to be adopted as soon as possible. I agree to withdraw my vital remarks, but only on one condition. They'll give me a commitment, not 10 years from now, but at least a month from now, they'll consider what I'm going to make as a separate bill. And that he will not be rejected for political reasons by the new majority, but indeed, for substantial reasons, he will be considered here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u155	I was given a written commitment to do so. Dear colleagues, please, let's vote first, second reading as well. So, colleagues, I put first reading, then second reading, and in general. I bet on the vote Bill No. 2031 is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on business regulation. Based on the base. [[17:44:24]] For 408 Thanks to the positions of Kseniya Mikhailovna, the guarantees of Natalia Jurijovna, I put the second reading to the vote and the bill as a whole. Please vote. [[17:44:49]] For 404 Thank you, dear friends. For 404, the decision is made. The law is passed in general. Colleagues, Bill 2298. [[second reading]] Sergei Mikolaiovich, please. It's a second reading. There's no need to report here. Just one minute of information.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u156	Dear colleagues, the bill of amendments to the veterinary medicine law has been in the Supreme Council for almost six months and in your drawers. And I'm going to allow myself to refresh your memory. In general, Ukraine has, thanks to all the calling of the Supreme Council, the Veterinary Medicine Act is quite modern, perfect, adopted and effective. It is enough to say that our personnel and all veterinary medicine each time deal with the outbreak of the epizootic disease, such as the bird’s flu, are exposed to the risk of minimal cost of finances and material resources. But what is it? With the introduction of the WTO, only three terms are adopted for the International Bureau of Epizootics. What does "polluter" mean, which is the "maximum residue limit" and the "animal identification system" position. I mean, here we finally adopt the Veterinary Medicine Act under the requirements of the International Epizootic Bureau. As a result, after we approved the law in the first reading, no comments were received from the National Deputies. There is only the desire and observation of the General Legal Authority to record the issue of the polluting substance not only in 75 articles but in the first article, where more detail and clarification is needed. It wouldn't be worse, I'll tell you the truth, but if we do, it's going to get into some kind of controversy with the International Bureau of Epizootics again. And since the WTO didn't join us, and we joined the WTO, let's not discuss it here anymore, it doesn't change anything. Thus, you and I have every reason, considering that it is the second reading to vote in favour of this law in the second reading and in general as the law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u157	Colleagues, no offer for a comparison table? None. I am betting on a second reading vote and, in general, Bill No. 2298 of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. Vote. [[17:47:53]] For 339 Decision taken. The next bill, 2088, is being announced. Julia Volodymyrov. There's a cut-off offer, right, comrades? Let's vote in favour of the simplified procedure. [[17:48:28]] For 313 Short-term procedure, please, decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u158	Thank you. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Recovery or Recognition of the Debtor's Pay-as-you-go Bankruptcy Act has been developed with a view to a detailed settlement of the legal relationship between the debtor and the debtor's management of the business in the event that the economic court terminates the recovery or recognition of bankruptcy in a way that does not have debts or may continue its entrepreneurial activity. The current law does not address this issue, which in practice leads to numerous collegiates in the courts of bankruptcy cases, resulting in different decisions being made by different judges. Thus, we have a situation where, in practice, some judges do not resolve these issues at the point of bankruptcy or liquidation, other judges appoint a previous supervisor, reinstate him in office. Such a state of affairs makes it possible for a participant in a bankruptcy case also for other interested persons to abuse their rights, to block further business activity by the borrower. Moreover, taking into account the numerous cases of so-called, unfriendly acquisitions or, as we say, raiding irregularities, this issue is in the background of the absence of legitimately elected business management bodies, so situations where such an enterprise is as vulnerable as possible give third parties the opportunity to take possession of the borrower's enterprise or property. The proposed bill is designed to amend articles 17 and 32 of the law, which stipulates that in the event of an early termination of bankruptcy proceedings, the responsibility to manage an enterprise relies on an arbitrator who, in turn, takes steps to select the authorities of the enterprise. That's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u159	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u160	This law is aimed only at improving legislation, filling gaps, and there is no other basis for it. So I ask you to support and vote in the first reading and accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u161	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u162	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy considered a draft Law amending the Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Payables of the Borrower in respect of the Management of the Borrower Enterprise, designed for the purpose of a clear and detailed settlement of the legal relationship with respect to the management of the Borrower Enterprise in the event of a permanent cessation of the recovery or bankruptcy procedure in such a way that there is no debt and may continue its business activity until the appointment of the debtor's directors in the established order of the debtor's administrations that there are no debts. [[Bankruptcy]] [[Bankruptcy]] [[bankruptcy]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a significant observation of editorial character and, as a result of the first reading, recommends the adoption of a bill in the first reading as a basis for further processing taking into account the observations and proposals caught. The committee unanimously voted in favour of adopting the bill in the first reading as a basis. Please support the committee's decision to vote in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u163	Thank you. According to Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, no one wants to register for operational information. Is it true? Really. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the adoption of Bill No. 2088 in the first reading, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. Vote. [[17:53:04]] For 349 Decision taken. We're going to the committee for a second reading. Dear colleagues, we have three bills left: two of them anti-residers, one of them in the village. I've been in session for 15 minutes. And I propose that these bills apply a simplified procedure. Is he going to? He'll go. Please vote in favour of the short procedure for bills: 1101, 2137 and 3024. [[17:53:50]] For 319 2074, I'm sorry. Under the stenogram: 2074. 1101. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please. Celebrities of Olives? Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u164	Dear colleagues, a very simple and brief bill. It's called the anti-rejder bill. In fact, it is designed to prevent the fact that businesses are captured, the very thrill. As everyone knows, the capture of businesses often takes place. Well, the same thing that's called raiding is happening with private security structures, and it's creating a serious social danger. We have proposed that this issue be removed by prohibiting private security agencies from taking part in decisions related to the change of business management and regardless of the form of ownership. So both state and non-state shareholding campaigns and private, if any court decisions are being made, it must be carried out exclusively with the help of internal affairs authorities. We understand that this is not a panacea, but in any case, there are more administrations for internal affairs officials if they act illegally. And at the very least, we're going to be able to reduce the ability to capture by these masks that we see on TV, all these bad examples. A simple and brief bill. The changes involved. are submitted, proposed in the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement, in particular in Article 5, where we limit that a public executioner may benefit from the services of private security institutions, except in cases of enforcement of judicial decisions, a decision on the change of management bodies and officials of enterprises, institutions, organizations, regardless of the form of ownership. In addition, we propose to the Police Act the 30th paragraph of the mandate that they may likewise assist the State's executioner in carrying out the executions in the cases established by the legislation. Another money, we propose to add the Criminal Code to Article 206, and to foresee direct criminal responsibility for the illegal involvement of private security agencies. It's a simple norm. Sounds like it. The illegal occupation of buildings, buildings, or other facilities of enterprises, institutions, organizations, and illegal interference with their activities with the aim of changing the management bodies, business officials, institutions, organizations, regardless of the form of ownership.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u165	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u166	Part two. The same actions again or again, or according to the previous conspiracy of a group of individuals. We believe that the introduction of these standards will significantly reduce, not fully, but reduce the number of businesses and buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u167	Can I have a deviation from the procedure? I didn’t quite understand one thing. To you as one of the drafters of the bill. All you're talking about is the grabbing, illegal grabbing of buildings, buildings, or other businesses. I mean, the subject and the subject of the crime, we're not confused here? Look at this. In fact, we have only objects of immovable property on the subject of a crime. What about stock?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u168	No, no. With the stock, you see, this is about private security structures. I don't know how private security structures can take over.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u169	No, but read the Criminal Code yourself. There's not a word about any private security structures. Read the changes to the Criminal Code. That's what you just quoted. There is no subject of crime as a private security structure. It's a broad standard. Unlawful grabbing of buildings, buildings, or other businesses, institutions, organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u170	Arsenius Petrovich, a general, general subject in the Criminal Code. And along with these changes that are being proposed, well, how do we set up the enforcement mechanism, it's clear that the seizure will be illegal if it doesn't meet the requirements of the enforcement law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u171	Why do I ask, for there are suggestions to accept it in the first, second, and whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u172	I think it can be accepted in general. We realize that this is the norm that won't solve a hundred percent question, but it will significantly reduce. In general, enthusiasm is a thrill. I think it's, at least, the prosecution's case, and the law enforcement department to do a background check. What happens there is criminal conduct. Practice will fix us, just practice. The theory, I think we're not going to be able to move harder today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u173	Well, I get it, I'm the only one. You've understood my question. It's very simple to apply this norm of the Criminal Code. So we don't make a declaration norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u174	She's kind of, you know, she's going to be declared to some extent, and to some extent she's going to be working on the basis of the integrity of doing her job by prosecutors and militia. It's kind of like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u175	I got it. Please sit down. Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritzak. Colleagues, well, not so good. That's not good anymore. It's not human anymore. Who's on the committee? Colleagues, who will inform the committee? Valerius Beales. Microphone from the scene, Valery Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u176	Dear colleagues! I have this mission today to talk about our committee on law enforcement, we've been looking at, we've had some warnings, but in our opinion, it should be accepted in general and done on that. Moreover, we have considered this bill at a round table and have also concluded that it should be accepted. A big request from the committee, please let us vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u177	I got it. Colleagues, I'm continuing for 15 minutes. Write two "for", two "against". Comrades, we have two more bills. We won't be able to look at them in 15 minutes or two. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u178	I'm making an offer because we have two very important questions to take seriously about agricultural products and to help with the added cost of taxes on agricultural products. These are two very important questions, and that's why this project has now been reported to need to be accepted in general and move on to the next two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u179	It's a bummer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u180	I join my colleagues in thinking that this bill is extremely urgent today, and it reinforces the fight against such a negative phenomenon that is taking place in Ukraine, that is, the raid. Therefore, it is appropriate to accept it both in the first and in the second, and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u181	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u182	Thank you. The question is relevant because the ports are already being captured. The South Port has been captured, in turn, by other ports. But I have a question for everyone, because I couldn't put a shortcut in the procedure. Please tell us, however, that the illegal seizure of objects by private security structures is punishable. Could there be a legal fascination with these objects? One second. The question is, why is it that only private security structures and Berkut can take over when it's being charged? And the third question. And, tell me, what do private security structures do that can capture something legally, illegally? These are protective structures and are designed to protect a particular territory or object within the scope of the contract. I think we're already writing this down in the bill. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u183	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u184	Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! Today, we have a country that admires all that is interested in those who take delight in it. In Kiev, there is an open-ended Kyiv Truth Shareholder Society. He has, and that's a hundred percent, the property of the state is property of 260 million. Suddenly, it appears that it is already in private hands, even though it is in a list of objects that are not privatized. I don't understand or understand how this state property was privatized without a dissuasion procedure. So the Ukrainian Company, the faction will vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u185	Thank you. The discussion was over. Colleagues! I have an offer for you. Mr. Svetoslav, if you listen, you say "good" – well, "not good" – not good. Look, I still read this article of the Criminal Code, which we're proposing, and we're doing something legal, not that nihilism, but, well, mildly speaking, wrong wording. Look, we're writing. Yuri Anatolyovich, don't yell at Volkhov, please sit down! We write: “The illegal occupation of an enterprise, an institution, an organization.” “Business, institution, organization” - is a legal person. Do you agree? So we're in a stupid situation where we can form a pattern of crime by seizing a legal person, whether it's possession of shares, parts, pies, what it is. That's what I'm talking about. Could I offer you a compromise so that we don't get a little bit out of the criminal code right now, except for 206 so far, we'll work it out, but we'll take everything but 206 Prime 1. Comrades, will you? Thank you. Dear friends, I am voting on the adoption of Bill 1101 on amending certain laws of Ukraine, and we are voting on the basis. [[18:05:02]] For 344 That's the case, 344. Now, in the second reading, and in general, except for the third paragraph of the bill, where the Criminal Code of Ukraine is supplemented by article 206 of Prime. 1 of this content, we're shutting it down. We're going to delete the third paragraph completely, okay? We vote in the second reading and in general. [[18:05:34]] For 351 I am very grateful for the wise decisions made by the Ukrainian national deputies. Welcome to the adoption of a very important law, a very important law. This is going to have a significant impact on real property relationships, because everyone who isn't lined up with these private firms has been licensed and turned these private security companies into CNG, which are organized criminal groups. 2137. Draft Law on Markets in Agriculture We have an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u186	Sergey Tereshuk, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, I'm going to exaggerately say, the enormous potential of our Ukraine, our country in terms of agriculture can never be fully realized if we don't have real market mechanisms involved. One of the big problems that exists today is the absence of such a transparent mechanism of product promotion from manufacturer to consumer. Today, a huge problem is the lack of infrastructure that enables agriculture to be properly prepared. You know, today everybody is suffering from it, those who eat products, I mean, the population of Ukraine and those who produce. In the structure of spending in a European family, food prices account for 40 - 50 percent; in the budget of the Ukrainian average family, food costs are 80 - 95 percent. So there's a fluctuation in the market. Although 10 percent is a major influence on consumption. As a result, to a large extent large numbers of families do not eat the amount of meat that they should eat, do not eat the vegetables, the fruits that they should eat. Those who produce food also suffer. Food products, agricultural products that you and I consume are produced by 70 percent in private agriculture -- milk, meat, potatoes, other vegetables. But at the same time, I want to point out that those who produce this product don't get the money that they should get. If a liter of milk is a peasant who gets a bracelet and a half of bracelets, we'll buy five bracelets with you. If we buy a pound of meat for 50 or 60 bucks, that's how the peasant gets 15, at best, a bracelet. The same is true of vegetables. So we, a group of deputies, representatives of different factions, I emphasize, this is not a political law, and we have just proposed a law on wholesale markets in agriculture. I want to emphasize that all the political forces that went to the elections, or most of the political powers in their programs, have just written down the participation in the creation of civilized markets. The same norm is in the country's support programme, a state program that is accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u187	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u188	Therefore, honourable colleagues, the law also provides for State support for the creation of such markets, the control of such markets, the creation of infrastructure that is in every civilized country. I ask you to support the bill proposed by the deputies of various factions, my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u189	Roman Volodymyrovich Tkac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u190	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, fellows of honor! A bill was considered on our committee. Indeed, we believe that it will have a significant impact on the reduction in agricultural prices. A good example for Ukraine, those who know about Western Ukraine are the wholesale market “Shuvar” in Lviv. This market can benefit many of our farmers and small farmers, but it is a lonely good case. We still want these wholesale agricultural markets to be taken over by the state. In large numbers, there's no need for very large budget costs, there's going to be, at most, 5 to 10 million dollars for the next year. That is why the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations has considered this bill at its meeting and suggests that it be supported on the basis of it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u191	Thank you. Colleagues, no desire to speak? None. I am betting on a vote on the adoption on the basis of Bill No. 2137, the draft Law on the Wholesale Markets of Agricultural Products. Please vote. [[18:10:17]] For 351 Decision taken. I declare the last bill 3024. Yuri Fedorovich, please, Melnik, Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u192	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! Special tax regimes for agricultural producers with added value tax have been introduced since 1998 as a complement to direct budget support. The introduction of special regulations has contributed to the increase in agricultural production, since support for special regimes has provided the targeted channelling of funds, since support was provided at the level of each farm that met the criteria and was directly dependent on the results of its economic activity. Most importantly, it works automatically without interference from the subjective factor. It will be noted that in recent years the specialists have continued annually with the relevant laws of Ukraine, which have generally been enacted at the end of the year, which has hindered the development of animal and vegetable sectors and prevented investment in the agricultural sector. The advantages of the bill that is proposed lie in the following. It is not contrary to the requirements of the World Trade Organization, for it is proposed to distribute the system of accumulation of agricultural products with added-value taxes on all agricultural production operations, including the sale of milk and meat for processing enterprises. In the reports of the working group on Ukraine’s application to join the World Trade Organization, there were no comments on the regime. The other one. The bill proposes to cancel the zero rate, which is discriminatory with regard to agricultural importers and the payment of subsidies by processing companies. Third. The cost-added tax accumulation mode is proposed to be implemented without limitation, which will help improve the agricultural investment climate by creating a stable tax policy. Four. The bill's tax regime is voluntarily chosen for at least one year. The fifth, and perhaps the main, is that the law, the bill, is fully supported by agricultural producers. In our opinion, honourable national MPs, the adoption of Bill No. 3024 will enable us to create favourable conditions for the production and financial activities of the Silgos.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u193	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u194	which will contribute to the further increase in revenue from agri-industrial enterprises. I urge you to support the draft bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u195	Thank you, Yuri Fedorovich. Please have a seat. Bondarev Constantine Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u196	Good afternoon, dear friends! We have considered this bill on the committee, but two other alternative bills have been introduced. In one of them, we are coauthors with Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk. And there's also the alternate bill of Teryochina. And on the committee, we came to the conclusion that we had suggested that the Supreme Council should consider the following: that the first reading should be based, and after the first reading of the committee, that all three bills should be merged into a working group, because there are some contradictions. And work on the second reading and then accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u197	Thank you. Please sit down. Colleagues, it's 18-14. Under the Rules, I have the right to continue meetings only in the first half. So I'm going to suggest the next option. Listen carefully. We are now formally voting in favour of the conclusion of the debate only after the vote. So we're de facto continuing. That is to say, we vote in favour of the question and the conclusion of the matter by vote. Please vote. [[18:14:45]] For 302 There's no other way out. If we don't vote for it, tomorrow they'll say it's unconstitutional or illegal. Colleagues, I now ask, two pros, two against. Option "a", option "b", without writing down which of the deputies wants to make a brief statement. Catherine Timothy and Roman Tuck. All of it. There's Yuri Carmazin. Okay. This is going to be two "for", two "against", just three men. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u198	Dear colleagues, in fact, we are going to continue to some extent today the law that we have worked with you and that worked in the agricultural sector and allowed the added value to be accumulated into a special account and used to buy technology, to make increased reproduction of agricultural production. There are only two changes. One is that we're increasing to 75 percent the obligation to produce agricultural products, and that's the right thing to do. So as not to hide the speculators under this norm, it's as if they've been drinking. Second, it does not extend to processing companies that did not pay VAT to the budget, which went as a subsidy to the price of milk and meat for those who produced and sold it. This is a requirement of the WTO, and we can't have children anywhere. But this law allows for a sufficiently serious amount of money to be left in the village. I'll say at least 5 to 6 billion. The VAT will be accumulated annually. It's the only just grant. Because there's no one there who shares, who takes the fall. Selling the product, the VAT remains on the farm and is used. So I urge everyone to support this bill. Without it, we're going to put the village in very difficult conditions, and it's still working in difficult conditions today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u199	Roman Tuck from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u200	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Indeed, this is a very important question. And we were looking at the Agrarian Policy Committee, and there were three laws on land relations. There were, of course, disputes, different views, and yet we made a compromise decision, the idea of which is to adopt this Bill for Number 3024 in the first reading, and to the second reading we would still propose to introduce a rule concerning the non-payment of taxes on added value when importing cattle, large cattle, purebred tribal pigs and also imported agricultural techniques that are not produced in Ukraine. The list of these techniques will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, the Agrarian Policy Committee proposes that this decision be taken now in the first reading, and that the second reading take into account the position of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance and the second literally vote in favour of the project as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u201	Yuri Carmazin and John Kirilenko Carmazine from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u202	Yuri Carmazin. Dear friends, I'm here to accept this bill. The only thing I want to warn you from one moment, paragraph 1129 needs work. What's that? It reads: After operations in the supply of agricultural products for their own production and processing. At the same time, it is not written in such a way that processing should be the same product as manufacturing itself. Then all the meat that is about to be imported here will fall under this scheme, that is, 300 thousand tons will be imported there. So this is definitely what we need to add here. I fully agree with the suggestions that Mr. Tkac has just made about tribal livestock, about technology that is not produced in Ukraine, and under what conditions can this be introduced. And I would ask you to accept it only in the first reading. In the second one, we have to assign a committee to work on it. I was also approaching the APC minister, and I think he shares that view, and we can hear him. And, also, Minfin, he also sees these horns that are, and he sees that we need to support our own manufacturer, or else we're going to get to do alien drugs. This is impossible and unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u203	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u204	Dear colleagues, the long - suffering law, in 10 years we have had it here in this hall every year with blood, with fighting, with pain, barely 226 votes, and now, thank God, there is a common position with the government. In strict conditions of competition against farmers who have much more support in the world, and farmers who surround us a lot, who have much more support, even in Poland, and we see how much Polish production we have, we adopt the law of accession. The price of a question for the State budget is 7.2 billion dollars. The government is taking an unprecedented step, not entirely in line with the Sotovian law – it is a "yellow box". But, colleagues, no budget, no direct inflows, we're not going to collect or collect 7.2 billion. This is the second argument that must be highlighted. With grants and aid, we don't cover all the producers, at least a third of them. And VAT benefits, so-called VAT benefits, apply, without exception, to every agricultural producer, each. And one more detail. 20 percent is accounted for and accounted for, and it goes, this special account, this one right here, the control function, of course, the government, and the other structures that are involved in this, to go exclusively to the replenishment of material and technical resources, to the innovation of investments, what we're talking about here. During a period of affection for agriculture, it ended. Let's be serious, colleagues, let's help. For the second reading, it's a shame that we didn't have a discussion earlier, you could take into account both the first and the second reading of what was in 2137, so what are you going to do? We're going to vote this way and we're going to introduce the amendments very quickly, in short procedure, and we're going to vote on an extremely complex document and we're going to help the farmers improve their technical condition and tribal work, which unfortunately we don't have today. Thank you very much, let's support it. Shorten the term for second reading, Arsenija Petrovich, and shorten the term to second reading if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u205	A few things. First, Ivan Grigorovich, not 7.2 billion, but 3.2. 3.2, I read the papers, Ivan Grigorovich, I'm not from the ceiling, it's all in the papers. The other one. I haven't seen anything in any paper that the government supports this bill. I saw quite another, I read: “The proposed bill cannot be supported” and on two pages it is written why it cannot be supported. The word of Fudashkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u206	Turn on the microphone, you're here for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u207	You're reading the paper on the Vaschuk Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u208	2704, why is he sitting in 3207? Yes, the position of the government. Yuri Anatolyevich, sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u209	Arseny Petrovich, but I really want to say that it can only be voted on the first reading, because there are technical errors in this law that will lead to the consequences when this benefit is distributed to all imported raw materials. Moreover, given that there is still disagreement about compensation, there will be a question of when there will actually be a double battery, as in the two-period distribution of purchase and implementation, we will get double, once there will be compensation, once there will be no payment of 20 percent. And so the total is going to be almost 40 billion. So we need to make technical clarifications in this text so that we don't distribute it for what we don't need.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-18-m1.u210	I mean, colleagues, before second reading, we have to remove those warnings that have been made. So it's a two-proposal. The first sentence is to accept it in the first reading. And the second proposal is to double the deadline for the bill to be submitted for second reading and in general. I'm betting on the adoption vote in the first reading of Bill 3024 as a basis. [[18:24:29]] For 361 I am now putting to the vote the issue of the reduction of the terms twice in the bill for the second reading and in general. Article 111 of the Rules. [[18:24:52]] For three hundred Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I want to tell you that, in principle, at a time when everyone is making a deal with everyone, and certainly no one will agree with anyone, the Supreme Council is working very quickly and efficiently. I'm adjourning the evening plenary session.
