ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u1	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:34]] A total of 351 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of the issues scheduled for December 11th. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders is being announced for consideration. Reporter: First Deputy Minister of Economy Romanyuk Sergey Andryovich, please. The focal point will be the chairman of the National Security and Defence Committee, Grishenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Sergei Andryovich, how long will it take you to report the bill? The reporter's asking for six minutes. Five minutes to ask. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, draft law eliminates shortcomings, legislation, and the practice of applying it on matters of public defence. First, at this time, the periodicity of planning a state defence order is annual and does not correspond to the Ukrainian Defence Planning Act, according to which a state defence order is to be developed for two years to come. The proposed project involves a defence planning system. Provision is made for the development of two budget periods by public contracting parties to the draft basic defence procurement indicators. That's it. Well, it should ensure that the production of the defence and industrial complex is projected and thus, with the appropriate support of these enterprises in today's economic situation. It's different. The bill removes the imbalance in the selection of state defence contractors in cases. When a product is purchased, it is a state secret in connection with its special purpose. Anything that does not apply to the production of services and defence work is proposed in the bill to purchase under normal procedures in accordance with the requirements of applicable legislation. And these are fuel-oil materials, goods, medicines, housing for military personnel, etc. Thirdly, Ukraine is now starting to purchase some weapons and military equipment at import. In the world market, such practices are accompanied by offset agreements, or some compensation to the importer. Ukraine’s legislation does not regulate offset activities. The project introduces a rule on the mandatory application of offset practices by obtaining Ukraine as a state of appropriate compensation. This rule will apply if the government contract provides for the purchase of defence-related products at an amount exceeding 1 million euros. The procedure for making offset agreements and types of compensation will be determined by the government. Fourthly, the bill in force excludes rules that are already regulated by the Financial Codes of the Economy and the Civil Code, such as the financing of the defence order, the responsibility for its failure, and so on. Finally, the draft structure and standards of the State Defense Order Act comply with the rules of law in force. In particular, the functions of the main subjects of the state defense order of the authorized body of government contractors and contractors are being revealed. In addition, the object of the defence order for the types of property, work and services that relate to the product of the defence, as well as the functions and tasks of the authorized authority on the coordination of the defence order of public clients and contractors of the defence order, has been defined. The adoption of the project will contribute to the improvement of the legal and regulatory framework in the area of state defence procurement, the adaptation of the defence procurement mechanisms to the requirements of the Budget, Economic and Civil Codes and the improvement of the efficiency of the material and technical security of the Armed Forces and other military formations of Ukraine. The project was approved at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Five minutes. There's a recording going on. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u4	Dear reporter! Vladimir Yavorowski. I understand that you can say that this is not really about the issue of defense orders -- but, well, you know, around Ukraine, our arms scandals are constantly emerging, and our ships are being detained, and Georgia, and many other scandalous problems. I'd just like to hear from you, as a national deputy, whether you know of the Ministry of Economics, where you're the deputy minister with the State Budget, the state Treasury with the profits. I understand if you have that number. I'd really like to hear it from a gun sale. Can you answer that? I'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u5	I can only say it's hundreds of millions of dollars. Hundreds of millions of dollars in arms exports.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u6	Oleg Zarubinsky, "Block of Lithuania" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u7	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Sergey Andryovich, I want you to clarify. You said that now, if this bill was adopted and it became law, nothing would fall under the category of state defense, except weapons, right? So fuel-oil materials, food and so on. And what about fuel-oil materials that are military-specific? Well, for example, special aviation gasoline or gas and all that, isn't that included? This is the first moment. And second moment. What were the motives, which was the argument, to remove from the state defense order those things that I said and about which you were talking about? Explain this to the deputies, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u8	Thank you. Well, given that we've had this practice for several years in a row in a country where the central authority of the executive was buying those materials that you're saying are fuel-oil materials, food, medicine and so on, even for military personnel under unusual procedure, and by specific procedure. And unfortunately, there was a lot of abuse. In connection with that. That these goods are now widely available in the Ukrainian market, there is no reason for them to be isolated and to use a special procurement procedure. Everything about weapons is going according to the proper procedure, especially what's going on in scientific research, especially what's going on under the graph in secret. There's a special procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u9	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u10	Thank you. Sergey Andryovich, please tell me a question over a question from a colleague of Zarubinski's. One of the purposes you just said is to align your bill with the relevant rules of the basic law on the organization of defence planning. I am interested in the social consequences of this bill. We hear the Minister of Defense repeatedly – Mr. Yehanurov, covered in such a pronatian scarf, demanding new funds, says that the army is starving, that everyone is going hungry and there is nothing to eat. So why, well, what does the defense order for food for our armed forces look like now? Little talk of a contractual army, the contractual army is hungry, and no one needs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u11	Thank you. I understood the meaning of the question. Well, first of all, food is not about the defense order. The defense order is concerned, and this is defined in the law, it refers to the arms and the security of the army. What's eating, providing fuel-oil materials, drugs, housing -- it's all going on a general basis. With regard to defence planning, the Defence Planning Act provides such a standard that this defense order is to be projected and planned for two years, and the effective law on defence orders determines only a year. There's a contradiction: all the time, these businesses that have to go out every year to win, win, etc. etc. It's time and money. So in order to make such enterprises more predictable, these standards are agreed upon in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u12	Taras Blackwall, faction of the Party of Regions, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u13	Dear reporter, I still have a follow-up to the answer you gave to the two previous questions, and yet on fuel oil and food for the army, on food products, you are now going to, not in this law, any other legislation to fully regulate this so that the problems that are present today do not arise so that there is a clear norm in regulation? And the second question is very short: the supply of transportation services is also provided, and not everything is so simple, especially when these services are not only related to transportation within Ukraine. With regard to licensing, about control, about planning in that area, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u14	Thank you. As far as food is concerned. Food is put in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, and it's not going anywhere. It's about the fact that there's a specific aspect of making contracts for the manufacture of weapons, ammunition, it's there. And this particular thing, this particular thing, is all that is consumed by the army on general grounds and that you can buy from the market in Ukraine without any restrictions or warnings. As for the execution of the defense order. And here are the jobs, and the services, and the goods, and the services, there are the appropriate companies with the corresponding licenses that can provide such services. And they're the ones who are taking part in the competitions when it comes to placing funds to buy these services in the defense order.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u15	Thank you. Time is running out, and those who want to have a good time have also been satisfied with their own interests. Thank you, sit down, please. The co-report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. Anatoly Stepanovich, how long do you need? The chairman of the committee requests two minutes to report the results of the committee’s consideration of the matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There is a meaningful question, there is an organizational question. This law is perfectly normal in the first reading. It is needed for our government, for our power structures, in general for the state. Our committee unanimously voted in favour of it in the first reading, and we support the government initiative. What's important here is the so-called offset compensation scheme, which has never existed before. And when we buy products from other countries, the state will be able to get some compensation in accordance with the procedure defined by the government: whether it's technology, whether it's additional co-production or jobs, it's very important. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we need to consult organizationally. It turns out our faction's not actually here right now: in a meeting with the President. I understand that the political position is that even by supporting the document essentially, and the members of the committee representing the Party of Regions voted in favour of it, but now the political institution: not to vote. Maybe there's a choice or a vote later so that we don't crash a normal bill when our fellow MPs come back, or maybe two factions will take a break. Because I wouldn't want an important issue for the State to go down for political reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for Anatoly Stepanovich? Yes. Please sign up for three minutes. Please sign in. People's Deputy Klimenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u18	Alexander Klimenko, Ukrainian National Party Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to support Anatoly Stepanovich, who is now, indeed, attending the meeting and meeting of the President of Ukraine, where most of the representatives of our faction are attending this meeting. The next bill will also be 3354, which will also be reported by the Minister of Construction. I'd like to support it, but unfortunately, we don't have a deputy present in the hall today who would write on behalf of the faction for a break. This is either a request to consider another bill, or a delay of at least 15-20 minutes. I fully approve and agree with these bills, but I would like them to be considered, at least so that most of our factions will be present in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, it's a wish or an offer, I understand. People's Deputy Korge, Timoshenko Street. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u20	I'm handing it over to Volodymyr Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u21	Honorable reporter, of course, is the choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u22	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u23	It's on the Korja card.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u24	Yes, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u25	Dear reporter, as part of the Committee on Budgets this year, including my colleagues, I have considered several times the Ministry of Defence's proposal to redistribute funds. Regrettably, in the second half of the year, the funds that were allocated under the State Defense Order were actively reclassified for food. I want to say that there's a generator plant in Kiev that produces unique products for Zenith complexes. This factory has always performed a defence order of 50 complexes. This year they were promised that they would eventually be included in the order. The factory has actually produced these complexes at its own expense, and today the money that was foreseen for this is reclassified for food. I think we need to somehow predict the protection of this article from such re-profiling, because we can feed the army, but without weapons it will all be ineffective. How do you feel about such ones on the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u26	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr, for the very important question. If you want my position, I think today's first priority for the development of the Armed Forces is not even a contract, it's a technical resupply and a corresponding development of our defence and industrial complex. It is sad that these changes are being made. Because, in fact, both our committee and other deputies have already been flogged with letters that show that food is far from normal in the Armed Forces. And the firms that supplied 22 bracelets now moved on to the others, who for 10 or more dollars per soldier per day take more money. Someone throws someone out of it, in their paws, a “market” and makes money on it, and then, of course, it's not enough. But that's a separate question, we've already sent these materials to the D.A. and HeadC. In fact, everything is in the hands of the government. The government provides materially, financially, security -- that's what the Constitution says. Therefore, it is unlikely that any further changes should be made to protect these articles. Because we still won't protect it if the Secretary of Defense comes out and says there's nothing to eat for the soldiers. We need to take better responsibility for our responsibilities and ask those who do not answer. You can't make the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u27	Thank you. Anatoly Stepanovich, time's up. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion. We've got ten minutes, haven't we? Please sign up for the performance. Please put your name on the board. Yuri Carmazin, Timoshenko Street. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski. And "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense," I'm sorry. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u28	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I think that this bill needs to be adopted and I think that the degree of its willingness is so serious that we can shorten the preparation for the second reading. The fact that the project introduces a special order of purchase of products, jobs and services for import, it inspires hope that we will eventually pay attention to our own defence capabilities. I'm already talking to our minister of defense, the minister of industry, I've been making calls, it hasn't helped with the purchase of unmanned scout planes. We finance foreign companies, in this case Israeli firms, instead of financing our own. That's why we need this law, because if it's written in the law, in article 8, there's a possibility for a domestic producer. I think that the law that the government is preparing right now is one that will also be directed towards a way out of the crisis, precisely because of the positions that have been said. I do not now share the opinion of the rapporteur, the head of the Committee of Grizzen, that something might not be adopted by this law. I think it's going to be accepted, absolutely for all parts of the room, it's perfectly normal to foresee the legal basis of the defense order, it's just clarifying because legislative acts have already been changed. He predicts that the coordinating body is exactly, this is the body authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers. And this bill just specifies, let's say, the specifics of the placement of defense orders. So you have to accept it, absolutely sure of it. As for the comments made in article 8, I will submit them. And I'm going to ask this question so that we prefer domestic defence enterprises and foreign development. And I think that's the same thing that should be added to article eight. I'm calling on the committee members to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u29	Oleg Zarubinsky is invited to the presentation, to prepare the Terran, the faction of the Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u30	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I don't think it's worth repeating the right banal truths that the defense of the state is a matter of national and universal importance. It seems to me that some of the points that have been written in this bill directly or perhaps even indirectly will have an impact on the mechanism for ensuring Ukraine's better, higher security. The only thing I didn't quite understand was a proposal from the National Security and Defence Committee. And the honourable chairman of Anatoly Grizzenko's committee offered to accept him in the first reading. And I don't think there's been any argument that needs to be changed and that doesn't set up a committee of profiles to be able to vote on this bill as a whole. Now, a colleague of Carmazin listed one item that might have been extra or more precise. I'd like to hear it from the profile committee. Once again, I would like to point out that the bill proposed by Sergey Romanyuk, the First Deputy Minister of Economy, is absolutely right, correct in terms of legal legislation. And unfortunately, I haven't been able to ask the question until Anatoly Stepanovitch is done, and I completely agree with your view that using the offset scheme, when compensation is done to those companies, those companies where we buy weapons, weapons for our needs, compensation for technology and other important things, let's say, for us things. I'm not an expert, and I'd like to ask you, is this a work in progress when Ukraine sells its weapons, its designs in terms of weapons, or is this offset by our technological schemes, our technological developments? And what are these technological developments that we're proposing to other states, what technological know-how, what high-tech is there? I think it's a very important question, because it's so secretive that, frankly, there's a question here that there's no technological development that we're compensating for selling our weapons and whether they're dual-use items. If I heard that answer, I think it would be right and important for all the national MPs. Once again, I want to say that the bill is definitely on the first reading and it is possible, and it is worth supporting, and I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u31	Terrence, please pass the word to Bondarenko, please. Prepare Larina from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, distinguished TV viewers! I would like to point out that, for our country, the problem of defense procurement is extremely important, because a huge number of businesses that are still working or living in Ukraine have been working in a defence complex and could successfully continue their activities today if only the state had been given order, just with a protective order. Unfortunately, the information I possess indicates that the state does not support the development, unfortunately, of this kind of weaponry, but only by half of the complex, of the money allocated. The Kyiv factory “Generator”, which manufactures the unique equipment needed for our air defences, is the UA clichrons that were specially released in Kiev for these defence complexes. Today, 50 of these devices are in business, and the company is bankrupt because this year’s government order does not include this type of product. The same applies to airplane resources and so forth. So what I'm saying is that government procurement is an extremely important factor in the impact on the safety of our businesses. The law itself, in accordance with article 27, was considered on the Committee of Budgets, it had no impact on the revenue or expenditure of the budget and could be approved. But in it, I think we need to make substantial changes in articles 7 and 12. Regarding the seventh article, it says that a government order can be considered and awarded only to enterprises that have won it on competitive grounds. But there are businesses in Ukraine that are unique and have no competition in the country. It is therefore necessary to provide for the possibility of a non-competitive award of such an order, but under the control of the Ministry of Economics and the Antimonopoly Committee. So this is non-alternative, "only on a competitive basis" has to be removed. The other one. In the twelfth article, we see again this situation with the allocation of funds in the Ministry of Defence. I think that we should look at the subject of arms, there is technology and there are devices without which our army can simply be a congregation of people, dressed in shape, fed, unable to do anything. So I would like the law to provide for protection for articles related to military technology and equipment, so that it is not possible to do so today, to convert the money that was envisaged for the defense order in part of the military feeding technique. That's not quite right, and if we go this way, we're just going to stay technical. I would like to point out that there is also a tank factory in Kharkiv, which may not be releasing traditional tanks that are now known to everyone, but there are new developments that need to be released. That's why the defense order.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u33	Jaroslav Suhi instead of Sergio Larina will speak from the faction of the Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, the agreement proposed by the bill with the relevant rules of the basic law on the organization of defence planning can and should be welcomed. But I would like to talk about again in the same question that I asked about the social consequences of this bill. I personally have great doubts that this bill, like our previous good intentions, will be implemented. As many times as I've been in Parliament, as many times as we haven't received the budget, no time, except in 2004, has been spent on new types of weapons. Until then, they had not been separated or won. I have a little calendar in my hands, this is our Ukrainian Mi-28N helicopter, called the Night Hunter in NATO. This helicopter is being sold to China, Pakistan, India, Russia, Indonesia recently purchased, Brunei, it's around, it's not just in Ukraine. In the Ukrainian army, the tops of helicopter art are Mi-8, which is the same as in civilian aviation, corn. This is how it travels at 300 km/h. By the way, our Mi-8 helicopters helped Macedonia to deal with Albanians. But, dear fellows, for us defense orders are at the end of the line here. What's in this room is the KPC, it's a military-industrial complex, a military-industrial complex. Again, I refer to this topic, which we know in Ukraine, because these are our inventions, the Black Shark and the Alligator, the K-50 and the K-52 are sold worldwide, there is no one in Ukraine, the K-50, the Black Shark in NATO called the Tank Batallon Exterminator. 16 rockets, 16 tanks, there's no hint of laser turning their heads. It's our know-how, it's going to be BP, it's going to be high technology, it's going to be material science. Look at how much of the achievements of the military-industrial complex are now widely used, both in construction and in metallurgy, both in medicine and in aerophotos. This is what we need to talk to you about. For example, I would like to welcome how this bill would contribute to development, but we have a bad experience in Zaporozhye. There was a factory in Tokmaka called Judzielmash. We're going to go, listen, fight the Somali pirates. Fellow MPs, please don't let our boats out of our bays. I know an underwater boat called the Zaporozhye, and we've collected batteries all over the area, and we've collected them, and they're not, the poor ones are standing there, for God's sake, somebody is going to drown, and we're going to have shame all over the world. Don't let anyone fight the pirates! Let's build our army with normal weapons and normal technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Anatoly Grizzenko, please head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u36	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Oleg Zarubinsky, I want to answer the questions that have been asked. We feel that we need to accept the first reading, but we need to make some changes. They spoke, including in performances, at least two. First. It's to predict a simplified procedure without wasting time on empty things, buying goods and defense services where there's one manufacturer, one regulation. There's nothing else. If an airship complex is produced on a single enterprise, there's no point in spending months on tenders. That's the first one. And the second. You need to specify a number for offset schemes. Because 1 million euros is written. One million euros is a piece of a tank or a piece of a war machine. And actually have serious negotiations with serious companies, probably for such a small, sorry, no amount, no compensation. Obviously, we need to raise that amount. Because otherwise we don't buy anything even where it's supposed to be. So I would ask for other comments, MPs have a right, so they should be considered only in the first reading. But for the second reading, we will prepare as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders has been completed. In accordance with the Rules, we should put it to the vote. There's no fraction and no card. We either have to vote then or we have to make a decision to move. Dear colleagues, would you agree to such an offer? Dear colleagues, you may agree to such an offer that we will now consider the bill, and then we will conduct the vote, understanding the irregularity of the situation. Well, we can burn the bill, we can think about the defense department, and we have to think about the armed forces, and then we can define it by voting, and it will be objective. If I knew that, I'd answer you. Dear colleagues, then I ask you, let's do this, because we have the next bill on housing. Everyone understands the importance of this problem. So maybe that's what I'd ask you to do. To vote for this bill, to accept it as a basis, I mean a state defense order. Let them work, we will continue to consider housing construction. It would be good for the Supreme Council not to burn the bill. I'm asking you very much, dear colleagues. How's the signal? I don't have that kind of signal vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a basic draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Order. Vote please, Your Honor. [[16:35:54]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Adam Martinyuk, please, microphone. I'm asking you, dear colleagues, we've worked well. Let's demonstrate that we have the will. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u38	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, we all know, perhaps, or colleagues from “Our Ukraine” will confirm that they are now at an important meeting with the head of state and probably not all of us have been able to return, and that is naturally, understandable. That's the first one. The other one. Maybe they won't come back at all. It'd be nice too. The other one. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have a perfectly legitimate regulatory right to re-vote the motion to return to the vote on this bill. Therefore, I ask you to use the Rules and put this bill to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u39	Honourable national MPs, taking into account the proposal as well as such a regulatory possibility, I am proposing to vote on the return to the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders. Registration number 2581, please vote. [[16:37:28]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Now, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Order. [[Registration number 2581]] Please vote. [[16:38:05]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for the principled position. It's being announced. The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, Yulia Timoshenko Block – 152, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 31, Communist faction – 21, "Litvina Block" – 20. A draft Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing is under review. Registration numbers 3354 and 3354-1, i.e. alternative. Reporters: Minister of Nationals. Regional development and construction of Kuibide Vasil Stepanovich, and the rapporteur for the second bill is National Deputy Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov. I invite you to report to the Minister for Regional Development and Construction, Vasil Stepanovich Kuibidu. I beg you, will five minutes be enough for you? Dear colleagues, for the reporter five minutes, five minutes per question. Alternative report in the same way. And let's have a discussion between 10 and 12 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u40	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! I have the honour to present to you today a bill to prevent the impact of the global financial crisis on the development of construction and housing. The aim of this bill is to achieve stability in the building sector, to increase the capacity of the population and to ensure the realization of the housing rights of citizens in need of state support, and to stimulate housing in the context of the global financial crisis. I'm going to point out that this project was prepared by a commission formed by a special commission made up of not only the workers of the Minregonbud. The commission consisted of experts working in various construction organizations, as well as national deputies, representing all the factions of the Supreme Council. I would like to thank them for their fruitful cooperation. I'm going to point out that this bill, which I'm about to report as a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers, is somewhat different from the bill that was drafted by this committee. It is largely different from the rules of the law that were removed by the Cabinet of Ministers at the request of the Minister of Finance. The rest is a bill to each other. If we compare the bill that I now report to the bill tabled by the people's deputies, we'll notice that this bill is different from those removed by the Minister of Finance, as well as by the fact that the bill is distributed around the people, and by the absence of a bill submitted by the people's deputies, the rules governing the rent of the house and the right of the next ransom. The rest of these bills go down by about 97 percent. The bill, which I have the honour to report, can be broken into two parts. The first part consists of a group of norms that relate to the entire building industry, including changes to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. In line with these changes, a fine of 20 to 100 untaxed minimums is imposed on officials who delay the issuance of technical conditions. In this regard, the authority of State building is expanded. Changes have also been made to the Earth Code for inclusion in the preparation of fleets for sale of engineering equipment. Amendments to the Master Code, Ukraine’s Law on Natural Monopolies, the Law on Electricity, and Building Transport are also envisaged to compensate an investor or a builder for the cost of building or reconstructing engineering facilities for gas supply or electricity supply. The organization that has the right to provide technical conditions is obliged to compensate, compensate for, and take advantage of the costs incurred. Changes are being made in the planning and construction of areas that make it easier to obtain output data, as well as in the Fire Safety Act, which provided for the calculation of 3 percent allocated for the new construction. Now that cancels. Changes are being made to the Architectural Activities Act, which prohibits the contracting authority from requiring the decision of the City Council when it comes to agreeing on urban design documentation and amending the Investment Act, further protecting the rights of investors and builders. Now the next set of standards is aimed at forming a paying consumer. How? Part of the rules are designed to cost the construction of a square metre of housing. Part of the other rules provide for State aid to those who are entitled to receive housing according to the current legislation at the expense of the State, as well as mortgage loans. By adopting this law, I am convinced that we will greatly improve the situation in the construction sector in general and, no doubt, in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u41	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u42	And no doubt we're going to build housing. This law is in fact like a parliamentary law. So, from my point of view, no matter what the brothers on the basis, we worked together on it and on it. It's important that he be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u43	Thank you, Vasil Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, the Minister's report has been completed. Please sign up for a question, if any. National MP Popov, please, faction of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u44	Vassili Stepanović, the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister repeatedly said that we would have a serious movement in 2008 with regard to the construction of affordable or social housing. Unfortunately, however, this year's programme has failed. Here we understand that the implementation of this law really needs State support. As a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, say the draft budget next year provides some resources for this law to be earned if it is adopted next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u45	The Ministry prepared the concept of the State Housing Programme by 2015 and prepared a law on affordable housing. Sadly, however, this law has not yet been passed. You're right in order for the program to be implemented effectively, you have to bet in the state budget. Maybe that's 0.5 percent, as the President suggested in his decree of November of last year, maybe less, coming out of economic possibilities. But if we don't anticipate these funds in the budget that will help first citizens who have the right to housing at least at the expense of the state, this program will be on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u46	People's Deputy Caplienko, faction of Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u47	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Serbia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u48	Please turn on the microphone of the Serbian national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u49	Thank you, colleagues. Dear Vassil Stepanovich, you have faithfully said that almost the same group was working on both laws. And the Ministry of Regional Development was actively involved in the drafting of the Lisov Law. Do you agree that if the deputy corps upholds the MP's law to lift the Kabmin law for the cause and to adopt the Lisov law as a basis?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u50	I have already said that from my point of view, since these two laws are almost identical, no matter what law will be adopted as a basis. The important thing is that individual positions are taken into account during preprocessing. I think there's two of them. I've made them up, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u51	Katerina Vaschuk, Lithuanian Block faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u52	Dear Minister, Katerina Vaschuk, Block of Lithuania. That's my question. So I'm reading both of these bills, and I see that there's something similar about how we passed the anti-crisis law, where banks, banking structures and bankers got the most right and protection. So it is here. Those who build housing, builders, those who have serious capitals on it, not those who have invested in housing construction today. It's not going to work. Although they have paid the sums, they are waiting for this residence. What specific protection can you guarantee for citizens who have invested in construction? Explain to make sure that we hear people too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u53	This law is not designed to protect the builders. This law is designed to form a capable consumer, a citizen. And it envisions state support for a citizen in the form of giving him 30 percent of the unrefundable aid, and then a citizen has to take credit or from some other source to pay off the remaining funds needed for the purchase of an apartment. If there is no consumer, no matter who builds it. These apartments will not be purchased. How to protect the consumer, how to make sure that we don't have new "elite centres" is also written in the body of the law. It's suggested that we take, now let's say, the level of readiness of the building, or 75 percent, and direct these funds there to complete the construction for the next year. For example, these could be houses that have a 50 percent readiness rate. As you can see, it is differentiated to form a pool of funds that is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u54	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u55	form a pool of funds to complete the construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u56	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u57	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vassili Stepanovich, let's be honest that this law is, of course, mildly speaking, raw. And the question that my colleagues have just asked, and you answer that the law directly assists Ukrainian citizens, is not exactly true. So, really, you can imagine, you're giving 30 percent to a person, and we realize that 30 percent of today's cost of an apartment is very few people can make it. What about those who are disabled, pensioners, people who have been expanding since Soviet times? People who especially live in emergency homes today. Where are they going to take that 30 percent of the value of the new apartment, and they're going to take credit at the bank for what? So you have good rules of law, I hope to speak up, but you're not answering the right questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u58	We have a million people in line. This law is obviously not going to help everyone. Some people, about 200,000, will not be able to borrow from the bank according to their income. I totally agree with you here. And here, for these people, we have to predict the construction of social housing. Everyone else can get a loan. We have to make sure that the square meter of housing falls in price and how the standards are set out here, including the restriction on the cost of construction and the production of construction materials, and ensuring that our workers build on construction, even when a foreign firm is made by an investor or a developer, is required, at least 90 percent of the amount of construction work done by our employees and brothers, at least 50 percent of the building materials that we produce. If you estimate how many people this law extends to, I'll say, about 250,000 families.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u59	Thank you, Vasil Stepanovich. Time's up, thank you. Honorary colleagues, with regard to the submission of Bill 3354, have the floor of Ukrainian deputy Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear Chief, dear colleagues, for your consideration we submit the Anti-crisis Act on Housing Construction. This law, I support Vasil Stepanovich, is not an alternative, it is a unified law, because so many of the regulations that were laid down in the Cabinet of Ministers' law and in our bill. This bill is united, and virtually all MPs have participated in its formation. I thank you very much for the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, the Serbian and Radovec, thank you to Vladimir Avrumovich Polachenko, Arzvitina, Klimenko of “Our Ukraine”, the members of the faction of the Party of the Regions. We tried to write in the positions of this law those positions that really supported the construction industry today. Because there are some 10 million square feet [10 million sq m] of construction in Ukraine today and some one and a half million construction workers are involved. You can understand today what the volume of jobs is, and for each builder, five or six workers work in industries that are adjacent: manufacturing of building materials, metallurgical industries, transport industries, manufacturing factories, design institutions and so on. So today we have proposed that the state help preserve the volume of construction in our country. In addition, it is fundamental and important because the component of the cost that passes through the construction sector is about 80 billion dollars a year. State support, that's what 30 percent reported to you today and providing for those categories where the state is obliged to provide housing is less than 10 percent. All the other investment investors are people who clearly need a significant improvement in living conditions. And so today, the situation is that people who put money into housing, and the state has changed the rules of the game, and that's to build the buildings that are now being built, and that money that's already being invested by the people who put it in today, because building a house is a collective investment. [[I'm Katerina Vaszczuk.]] And if the house has 100 apartments and only 50 people have to be invested, then 50 more apartments have to be built. Sadly, people today have lost confidence in banking institutions. Because they don't return deposits, there's either revaluation or inflation in our national currency. And so in order not to create an entire Ukrainian elite -- you have to give credit to banking institutions or to credit institutions to builders under mortgages, mortgages on built apartments, securities or other property rights. [[And these positions are laid down in our bill.]] And if we take this step, then we'll protect, first of all, the people who invested money today. If you're looking at a total of about 10 million people, it's about 150,000 people, 150,000 families. We have to protect them, and this law, in the norms, provides for this. Second, we'll save jobs. That's a second. And thirdly, we're not going to let those areas that are today working on building materials and other building materials. And there's another serious load. Because it's a social problem. And when people need to, we need to make sure that people are able to buy low-priced housing, and that's what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u61	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u62	So I'd like to answer the question if.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to Igor Volodymyrovich. Let me explain. National Deputy Korotjuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u64	Please pass the word to the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u65	People's Deputy Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u66	Thank you. I'm reading the Law on Anti-crisis Measures in Housing, and it says here that this law is designed to stabilize the construction sector and to ensure citizens' housing rights and so forth. And I'm opening the amendments to the Ukrainian Child Protection and Civil Code Act, I'm sorry. Article 18. “In the event of the eviction of parents from their occupied premises, because of their default on mortgage lending, evictions are carried out by a court decision without the consent of the guardianship and care body.” That's the first question. What do you think is possible? And the second. Ukrainian Civil Code, Amendments, Article 625, Part Two. “The borrower who has made a financial commitment is obliged, at the request of the creditor, not only to pay the amount of the debt, taking into account the established inflation index, but also three per cent of the annual amount of the debt. Please tell me if it's a law that's aimed at.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u67	I am angry with you, but this has nothing to do with our law. Our Law 3354-1. And that's why. No, no, no. Please show me an article.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u68	Yes, as long as they look at the article, the question from Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, the faction of Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u69	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Igor Volodymyrovich, you may not give an answer, but I hope you know, I'm sorry. I wanted to ask Vasil Stepanovich this question, I couldn't. Anyway, if we have state-owned construction organizations, that's the first. If they are, how much is involved in building and assembly work compared to private construction organizations. Next, what is the profitability of building private organizations. Why am I doing all this? On what basis do we have to help the private business at the expense of the State Budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, we don't have state construction organizations today. According to the State Budget, we support people in the second part of the bill, who have the right to receive housing, and the state pays 30 percent of the value of the apartment. It's prescribed, affordable housing. And it's clearly stated in the affordable housing that the benefits are given in order to make the rent. But a person who has received housing for government support, thirty percent, does not have the right to privatize for five years and loses his right to be on the line. Regarding the granting of loans to builders. In every state, every state exists.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u71	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u72	In every state, there is an income credit resource to build a place to live. In view of the fact that today in Ukraine, when people do not trust banking institutions and in order to maintain the growth rate of the construction sector and not to throw more than 9 million people into the street and without jobs, the bill is proposed for a period of two years, two years to compensate for the difference between the current commercial rate in banking institutions and the Nutzbank account rate plus two percent. It's absolutely small money, but it's going to be a high cumulative effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u73	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u74	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. My questions will go on to some extent as expressed by Adam Ivanovich. You know, when we adopt any bill, we want it as better, but unfortunately, it happens as often as ever. It's me before we have any warnings, certain mechanisms that we're not going to put into our hands a new part of the plots in this case from the construction to create new Elite Centres. And the second question. As a representative of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, I would like to ask you. Well, we're protecting, say, an investor, protecting a prodigal. Tell me, please, how do we protect a disabled person, a pensioner, a Chernobyl who has a chance to get housing because today, we understand, they are in the most difficult position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u75	Well, first of all, all the mechanisms, if you've read the articles of the law carefully, will be prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank in accordance with those articles and regulations that are in this bill. Protected. According to information provided by the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers, the following year government support should reach about 4 billion dollars. We're going to have a draft law for next year. And in this money, state support will be. We will remove or seek money to ensure that the social security of the population has the greatest benefits of getting free housing. But in our law and in the law that I believe is already united, yes, the clearly prescribed position of affordable housing is housing without the additional burdens of local authorities and government authorities, housing without the burden of developing engineering infrastructure and engineering networks. And it's going to be much lower than the housing that's under stress today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u76	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you, Igor Vladimirovich. The focal point will be Mr. Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please, Alexander Ivanovich. How much time do you have, Alexander Ivanovich? In three minutes, Alexander Ivanovich asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u77	Thank you. I'll try to get in. Our Committee on Finance and Banking proposed two bills for consideration. One of these Bills 3354, which is government, was considered, but unfortunately, the conclusion of the Scientific Export Authority was that it should be sent for processing. And there was an alternative bill, which was proposed by national deputy Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov, who had just reported it as an alternative. We have considered both of these bills, and according to our committee’s decision, we have concluded that we will create a working group, bring together two bills, removing all the positive articles contained in this bill, which would firstly revive the construction market today, which would protect citizens’ rights and interests, and especially to soften the situation that affects the construction market today, as well as the consumption of Ukrainian goods. There is a committee decision to adopt the bill of the national MP, Lis Igor Volodimirovich. And so the co-sponsors of this bill also participated in Arzheviten and Polachenko and Serbin, and I am co-author of the bill. There's also a positive conclusion from the Science and Technology Authority, which also allows us to do that -- to approve it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are questions before. Is it? Please sign up for me for a minute. Beavs, Communist faction, national deputy Bevs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u79	The word of Alexandria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u80	Alla Alexandrovska. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u81	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. The honourable rapporteur, here is the question that I ask: “Do you not think that too complex a solution is a problem both in one bill and in another?” As far as private mechanisms are concerned, they are well prescribed; that is, the relationship with banks, the provision there and the use of credits, and so on. But isn't it really easier for us to buy the apartments that are now dependent; to build those houses that aren't built; to provide people with social housing; and to give some of those apartments to people on the right to buy with timeliness, that is to say, cooperatives to create, and thus some of the money is still in the budget and return? Is it true that in the end, the State has to build housing for those people who need it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u82	Thank you for asking. I don't want to comment on the efficiency of using public funds right now. This is the first time. It's different. If you go to our market today and see if there's an apartment there today that was at least in our BWA. It is this bill that proposes such standards as would not increase, no more than 15 percent. [[what you asked the reporter]] Practically, this would have an impact on the loss of self - worth, or profitability of no more than 15 percent, and the standards will be taken into account today’s DBN. In the DBN, you know, today it's 4.5 thousand per square meter. Now to protect the interests of investors. There are many articles contained in amendments to the Law on Administrative Violations. This, in the first place, will also affect what will be the cost of this housing, because there is a very large chain of land acquisition and the very main, permissive system. And that's why we've made a whole series of changes to Ukrainian codes, starting with the housing code. Unfortunately, there is still a code for the Ukrainian Soviet Republic. We did not accept the Housing Code, but as the head of the working group, I turned to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u83	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u84	Members of the central executive branch, and to the minister of housing and utilities, and to the National Energy Conservation Agency, to the governors of the district, to the mayors of large cities, to other national deputies and so on. to representatives of the construction sector. They all made offers, and we counted them. In the second reading, if you have any warnings, of course we'll take them into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u85	Yes, National Deputy Arzhevtin, “Our Ukraine” faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u86	Alexander Ivanovich, question number 3. Please tell us we have a ban on financial and credit institutions for changing this law. No change in interest rate increase. Questions. Please tell me, will this be extended to contracts concluded in accordance with this law, or to all contracts that operate on the mortgage market?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u87	I think if we're adopting this law. Thank you very much. This is a sign of consumer protection, first of all. I think it's this one. This rule of the third article of this law will be extended to those banks and those institutions that will be made subject to such conditions since the adoption of this law. I repeat, the moment of adoption of the law will be in effect. January 1st and will be effective until January 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u88	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u89	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I have a very specific question. A predecessor in the rostrum, the author of the bill said that the implementation of this law would enable citizens to buy housing at low prices. Please tell me, what are the low prices? But there's some real predictive parameters that match low prices. In what price corridor will a square meter of housing cost the citizens when this law is implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u90	Thank you so much for asking that question. I'd like to draw your attention and attention once again to all the national MPs. What affects self-sustainability today is the first system that makes it impossible to work in market conditions today; the second, the land allocation; the third, the acquisition of technical conditions, i.e. power supply, gas supply and so on. If we say today for prices and corridors, these prices, and all those who will be considered to be the recipients of this housing, will be governed by only one standard -- the DBN standards that today will be applied by the Ministry of Construction and Regional Policy. These are going to be the priority prices. Today, this is the price of 4 and a half thousand -- 4,600 per meter squared. The bracelets, of course. This law, first of all, will not only revive construction today, but it will be a completely new industry that will rebuild construction today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u91	Thank you, Your Honor. Time's up. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Please write it down. Let's take 10 minutes. Here comes the recording. Please give us the names of the national MPs who are enrolled. Yuri Serbin, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Argentinus.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, what are these laws for? There were many, many questions to the reporters about whether we are protecting people by this law. So I can answer that both the first and the second laws protect people. The minister has already said that these laws are Eastern, almost identical. And there and there is what is being done now in many countries -- the ransom by the State for the underprivileged, for the people who have the right to receive housing, the ransom by the state of the unbuilt apartments, at the prices that are being set by the Minregionbud and the Mineconomy. This allows us both to finance and to give housing to people in line, allowing us to complete a construction that has a readiness of over 50 percent and 70 percent gradually. That is, we are not allowing new Elite Centres to be made and we are moving our course. The second question is, 30 percent, is it real or not? In my view, it's real if people invest money in this apartment. And they can put it in, and this is evidence of Poltava's experience. And you all know that the Prime Minister has not long since opened such a house in Poltava, where people have contributed 30 percent. There's money in our people, it's just been confused about these courses, these scarecrows, the prognosis and everything. And you know what a huge amount I don't want to call not to deepen the crisis again about these phenomena and the stomping of scarecrows, people have taken it from banks. And this money can return to real estate, because I'm sure people will realize that it's really a contribution that's guaranteed and definitely will come back. So this is housing, building housing for state support, where 30 percent of the people are being provided by the state to those who are entitled to it, that's helping our citizens again. And most of all, it's still we're giving you the opportunity to get paid, we're giving you the opportunity to work in the construction industry, we're giving you the opportunity to work in our metallurgy. Without that, it's impossible to get out of the economic crisis if we don't have construction workers. And lastly, in both laws, and in the law, especially the Cabinet of Ministers, well prescribed are those measures that will not allow the constructionists to go bankrupt right now. And that's very important. Because these calls, let's make them bankrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u93	One, finish your thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u94	These calls are not worth anything. Because if you figure out what a builder has in the basics, many don't, even tower crane builders. So if they start to go bankrupt right now, first of all, they're going to go to pay off bank loans, second of all, to pay off wages. And there will be nothing left for those who have invested their money in housing. So let's get to it in a balanced way and support the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u95	The National MP, Arjewittin, passes on the right to speak to Vladimir Polachenko. Get ready, Gordy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I spent forty-seven years in construction, in one organization. And fortunately, I'm known, not as a deputy, but as a builder. So I want to tell you that for my memory of a crisis like this, it wasn't. There was a crisis in the '90s, there was a crisis a little earlier. But now there is a crisis that was not in my memory. The downturn today is 10 percent of the capital. So far, the square meters of housing are being implemented. They are done because decent builders do everything they can to avoid new elites. They're running a launch program, but we're cutting the bitch we're sitting on today. Three percent of all work done is done. This means that in 2009-2010, unless the most radical actions are taken today, there will be no construction at all. The order of the numbers is like this. 86: 20 million square feet [20 million sq m] of housing This is the boom of construction in Ukraine. Last year it was said to be a peak, a golden age of 10 million. Of these, 50 percent is individual. Ten. We came out only 50 percent in 86, in 2100 - five million. So today, if I'm asked, my colleague Alexandrovska asked: “Are these laws anti-crisis?” I will tell you as the head of the Ukrainian Building Chamber, which brings together half a million decent builders. I would like to point out that, in 11 years of work, the head of Kyivmishkbud has built 120,000 apartments and there has been no case of fraud or anything else. I'm proud to support it. So today it's not an anti-crisis law. It's a law that minimizes a little risk. I hear a lot of comments today, and that's really true of all the comments. That is why we today have decided to vote in the first reading of a law that can be passed in the first reading. And there is a time to make proposals today, not just to speak with enthusiasm, but to make suggestions for second reading. Once again, this is the law that gives us the right today to develop it a little bit further. We studied the experiences of both SND countries and European cooperation countries. What is in Ukraine’s capabilities today is almost in this law. But there's time to take the time-out for a few days to study the proposals that both Basil Hara and Alla Alexandrovska made, and then we'll include everything in this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u97	Gordon, the Communist faction. Please. Adam Martinyuk. He's giving him the right to speak. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is no doubt able to write everything down in crisis today. And all that's said is that all you have to do is say that the crisis is going to end. I think, of course, like every one of you who listened to Lisov's report, that there's a really large number of people who are involved in the construction business or in the construction, that's what a lot of other areas of the economy are doing. And no doubt we need to look for ways to enable this area to work. So I think the first reading should be about adopting this bill, but I would very much like to, and on behalf of the faction of the Communists, I suggest, in preparing for the second reading very and very carefully, that we don't have to look so that we're still going to finance the revenue business at the expense of the state budget. Let's see what one square meter costs. Even if you believe the minister that he's worth 4.6 thousand dollars today, that's round, one thousand dollars is a cloud price, but let's believe it, one thousand dollars. They're selling how many square meters? Ten to twelve thousand dollars. Is that not profit? Overwhelming. The other one. Imagine, today, it is proposed in the bill that 70 percent of housing is built there and 50 percent of housing is built there next year, and that it be built at the expense of the state budget, and that it should be given to someone else. Maybe they will, but how and who will determine who to give the apartment to? What's more, please tell me, if 70 percent of the housing is built today, probably 90 percent, if not all 100, have already been sold. So the state is investing, and the apartment is no longer in this house. One more. We don't mention social housing at all here, unfortunately. And there is a special law to be said that, first of all, those on the line are young families, if they are financed by the State, who have earned their jobs for the benefit of the country. And a whole bunch of other colossals that arise in this bill. So I would very much ask, and I think that when we're finally considering this bill, we'll look more closely at each article, so that we don't throw four billion dollars away for reinforcements and so on, for business that's not bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u99	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u100	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, you know, I will not open America if I say that in a financial crisis the construction industry has virtually stopped. And the two bills that are represented in the hall today are very similar. [[absolute rights Minister for Regional Development and Construction Vasily Stepanović]] I'll add that they're not just like them, they're timely, they're needed, they're needed today. On the other hand, I wanted to say that the Ministry of Finance had attached its hand to the bill that had been passed by the Cabinet of Ministers. And where the Ministry of Finance leaves either fingers or hands, everything is cooled down and the bill remains dead, nobody needs it. Therefore, the best option, as if the idea of the bill had been presented and remained, was in the bill, which was represented by the People's MP, from the group of people's deputies, Lysov Igor Vladimirovic. I want to say that the adoption of this bill will revive the construction industry. On the one hand, it's jobs, it's wages, it's budget cuts, and on the other hand, it's not very important, because construction will be revived, there'll be a need for metal in construction materials. This will revive the domestic market of the country, revitalizing the domestic market of the country is the main cure for the financial crisis and the crisis. I propose the adoption of a bill that is presented by a group of people's deputies, represented by Igor Vladimirović Lysov, can be taken from a bill of government and a lot of sound speech by the people's deputies. To adopt a bill on first reading and decide not to take a month, but within a week, to prepare the bill for the second reading procedure, to adopt it in the room, and to put it into effect, as I repeat, it is one of the main remedies for revitalising the domestic market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u101	Thank you. Please, Arjevitin, there's only one minute left here, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In the following year, will the banking system be faced with an important task to direct credit resources? Is it agriculture, small business, consumer lending, or building industry? [[What are we talking about today?]] So our task with you is to prioritise this area and make laws that allow us to direct it. This bill not only aims at minimizing risks or at costing housing, but also at the main real filling of the building’s credit resources. Therefore, the bill provides several options for filling credit resources. One option is when, at the rate of refinancing, banks receive credit resources and have a limit of not more than two percent of the margin on loans issued. Another option is to compensate interest rates to commercial banks and a certain margin limit. Another option that does not provide for the debt regime, but allows the borrower and the financial and credit institution to enter into an agreement. These seem to be very hard, of course, but at the same time fair prohibitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u103	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u104	It is meant that banks are prohibited from issuing loans in accordance with this legislation to increase the interest rate for the period of application of this law. In my opinion, perhaps in the second reading, we will correct the standard when the banking system does not form reserves at all. I don't think we should cool down the banking system and still write this rule so that the reserves are formed for advanced or long-term loans. By standard loans, the banking system is obliged to make reserves. And, of course, the mechanism that the National Bank should write down on a simplified system for obtaining refinancing of banking institutions under housing. So I ask, as the author of the bill, to support our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, who is still insisting on this issue? Well, let's do it this way, from the faction came out, then maybe we should sign up from the MPs. There's a lot of people here already, and we're going to start like this. Dear colleagues! All right, let's have National Deputy Carmazin, he insisted, and a colleague, and then we'll vote, and Alla Alexandrovska. Do you have a deal? Everything, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u106	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I've carefully studied both the bill and the bill, very carefully, and the observations of scientific authorities. Unfortunately, as far as the bill of MPs is concerned, I will start at the end, the law on the seven pages, and the scientific expertise on the twenty pages. I'm actually talking to my colleagues. Friends! You're good at building houses, but I'm still asking you to involve lawyers in drafting such bills. Why? Because when the law sounds, in terms of legal technology, as an instruction or as an order, it's not a law. And when we say we're putting this one. We give priority to the bill. For example, article 3. “Prohibit credit institutions for periods of action to change towards increases”. Well, the legal technique would have spoken a little differently. Or article 4. “To the National Bank and the Government to develop and approve the mechanism”. This article of the law says so, not a transition, not an assignment. Or article 1. “Allow credit finance”. I'm telling you about the formulas used first. Instead, when a government bill is made, of course, it is made a little better. But I have great doubts that the government does what is right when it writes that the operation of this Law extends to categories of citizens who, accordingly, are entitled to housing at the expense of the state and are listed as military personnel, members of the military, and so on. [[This is Ending Positions, para. 2]] He's still in the professions that he's got, he's registered. Recorded judges, those unrecorded medical workers, the ones that aren't written down. So when we're giving out on professional grounds, we're no longer doing the right thing. They're all in line, people. They're all gone, and we're still taking turns from these lines, and we're saying this is what we're giving. Is that fair? That's not fair at all. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, you were right to talk about business profitability. You were right, but right now, when a government project says that thirty percent of that first contribution is being made, the state is making a citizen's contribution, that's the solution. So, in my opinion, it's the government's first vote, it can be added by the MPs, but in terms of legal technology, the law's perfection, the first one can be refined and polished. The second can't be done, it just needs to be reworked. That's what I'm telling you, and that's why I asked for the word not because I'm building houses, I'm not building them, I'm just worried that we're going to destroy the legal field, and we're going to have instead of the laws of the pole, the orders, the instructions and the distractions, what we have today in these. I can tell you so emotionally, but I want us to still, the Supreme Council, the highest legislative body, write laws that require legal technology and the law that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u107	Thank you. Please, I'd like to ask Alla Alexandrowski to prepare for the speech right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u108	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. When I spoke on behalf of our committee, I was entrusted with authority solely within the limits of the decisions of our committee. The Committee on Finance and Banking's decision was to adopt a bill of the People's Deputies of Lisova and the rest of the People's Deputies as a basis for first reading. This bill, which Mr. Carmazin has just reported, has not been considered. I want to tell you again, because you've read the second part, what's relevant to science and expertise, and you know them very well, I would like to pay attention to the essence and motivation of these bills. That's the first one. And second of all. If they follow the standards referred to in the Cabinet of Ministers, they refer to the government's programme of activities, there is no such program. But in our final positions, we have foreseen this bill that the government will develop this program and then, in accordance with this program, use the bill. That's the first one. And second of all. There are also deadlines for the National Bank for the refinancing rate, and this is foreseen in future budgets that will be set up for 2009. And as for the observations of the Science and Technology Administration. As the head of the working group, I had many suggestions from the national deputies, and we made them exactly as the national MPs had suggested. So in the second reading, of course, Yuri Anatolyevich, we will take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u109	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u110	Respected colleagues, of course, need a state-owned housing programme and not only in the light of the economic crisis that Ukraine is experiencing today. Since the destruction of the principles of socialism in Ukraine, millions of citizens who need housing living in emergency housing have virtually lost their hope of living in normal conditions. It must be said that it is a very serious problem and a poor level of remuneration and the income of citizens and unemployment, which prevents people from actually acquiring housing under at least the conditions afforded them by the housing market today. Unfortunately, the two bills proposed do not address these key issues. A person who receives a poor salary or a disabled person who lives on a benefit will not be able to take credit or pay credit and 30 per cent of the cost of paying for housing, which is proposed and proposed by both laws will not solve their problems. Therefore, I believe that a bill must be adopted as a basis, perhaps by the Government, but that still needs to be discussed and thought about, but still think about the mechanism for the relationship of the State, banks and individuals, such a mechanism that would really allow people to get social housing free of charge to those people who have the right to do so under the laws that we have enacted with you. And I think today those who have built houses, those who can't build apartments, those who have invested a lot of money in this by getting loans from banks, will be happy to sell these apartments at their own cost, or perhaps even cheaper to spend on the State and the State will be able to get social housing and give these to those who need it and have a right under the law. I think that the State, by buying out such housing, will be able to provide such housing to those people, in particular young families, who will be able to take this housing from the State and then return the money to the State for the accommodation. Thus, the possibility of using this housing market, which is in such a terrible state today, can benefit both those who have built the housing and those banks who have granted the loans do not see the possibility of obtaining the loans back, while allowing people to obtain housing. I want us not to be fooled by mortgages, interest rates, loans. These mechanisms are mainly proposed here. Remember what happened in the United States. Where loans were provided on very concessional terms to citizens, and the market had collapsed, the mortgage had collapsed and the housing was unrealized, and they were in a deadlock today. I think a noble goal will be the budget if it is used as the communists suggest. With this money, buy at a cost or even at a reduced cost the housing that has been built, use it as social housing and use it as a home for young cooperatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u111	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft laws on the prevention of the impact of the global financial crisis on the development of the construction and housing sector have been completed. Dear colleagues, this has also been the case in the speech of Minister Kuibida Vasil Stepanovich, also in the decision of the steering committee on what is more in keeping with the requirements and worked out, including less noticeable bill submitted by the people's deputies. So, dear colleagues, that's why there's such an offer. First. Any decision we make, and it sounded from the Chechtov National Deputy, who made a proposal, let's say, over the course of the week, the committee worked on it, and put it into consideration in the next, let's say, Thursday, to take it definitively as a law. But I understand that there is a regulatory rule, so I will put the government 3354 first, and then, if not voted, the bill of the Ukrainian National Deputies Group. I am betting on the adoption of Bill 3354 of the draft Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of Construction and Housing. Please vote. [[17:39:41]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 152, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 33, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block – 20. We need to put a motion on the vote. to shorten the terms of consideration and invite the committee to submit a second reading for consideration next Thursday? Should I? I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. Understandably, it takes into account the suggestions made by all who are right and set forth in the bills of the people’s deputies. [[17:40:30.]] For 385 Thank you, Your Honor, for your decision. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve Ukraine’s balance of payments and to deal with the global financial crisis is being announced for consideration. This is project registration number 3379. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing such a rule of procedure: for the report - 5 minutes, answers to questions to the rapporteur - 10 minutes, discussion and decision-making - 15 minutes. Is there a denial? You don't? Let's move on to the bill. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! The analysis of the main macroeconomic indicators of imports into Ukraine during the 10 months of this year shows a significant increase in imports of goods and services, mainly with all sectors of goods up to the corresponding period of last year, namely, $24.6 billion in cash or 51 percent in cash. This is explained by the cumulative effect of the following factors: the unfavourable world price situation on traditional Ukrainian exports; the decrease in import duties as a result of Ukraine’s entry into WTO; the high cost of borrowing resources and excessive currency exchange rates; the high energy efficiency and low productivity levels that collectively limit the use of Ukraine’s benefits in the international work story. The highest import rate was observed for goods belonging to the group 1.24 OCTS “Food and Agriculture” by $2.3 billion, or 71 percent. In particular, imports of meat and food products increased by nearly 250 percent in the 10 months 2008 period. It causes anxiety and a sharp increase in imports of low-quality products by group: 25-26 - mineral products, 41 - 43 - leather, fur and products by group 50 - 57 - textiles, textiles, shoes. 66 percent or nearly $1 billion. In the money scale, the highest increase in imports came from 84 - 90 groups — cars, equipment, and transportation. For $8.23 billion. It should be noted that most of them were made by end - consumption goods. The goods of the active part of the core funds — equipment, equipment, and equipment — were of little value. Overall, in the 10 months of 2008, a negative foreign trade balance of $13.7 billion, exports of $59.4, imports of $73.1. This situation with the trade balance of Ukraine is threatening, and in combination with the dynamics of reducing Ukraine's official monetary reserves and the ratio of short-term debt to maturity, there is a critical balance of payments. In this case, it is considered appropriate to take additional measures from the temporary restriction on imports of goods in separate positions with high growth rates that cannot be explained by the normal price line, or by MRT factors. Such a temporary limitation should serve solely to restore balance of payments and not set for protectionist purposes. According to customs statistics, the average effective rate of effective import duty fell by 11.5 per cent by 10 months. Given that this bill proposes to extend the temporary allowance only to certain goods whose volume does not exceed 12 per cent of the total amount of cash imports, it is proposed to establish a temporary target supplement to the current import duty rates for such goods on a conservative basis of 12 per cent. In the drafting of the bill, it was considered that the balance of payments was considered critical under the International Monetary Fund methodology for assessing the status and prospects of the balance of payments and alternative measures for rebalancing. What are some of the issues that may arise when considering this bill? We've asked these questions at the headquarters of the SOT, as well as the representatives of the Monetary Fund mission. Question one. Does Ukraine have the right to decide to increase import duties beyond the size approved in the protocol that we have ratified? The answer. In accordance with the rules of Article 12 of the GAT, Ukraine has the right to increase import duties where necessary, I quote, “to prevent the imminent threat of a significant reduction in monetary reserves or to halt such a reduction, or when the country has very small monetary reserves and wants to achieve a reasonable increase”. It is also noted that such an increase can be introduced to achieve and maintain full and productive employment or to develop Ukraine’s economic resources. Question two. Is Ukraine supposed to consult with the WTO until the introduction of such increased moments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u113	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u114	The answer. Such prior consultations are desirable but not mandatory. According to Article 12 of the GAT, the country should consult with the parties immediately after the introduction of such restrictions on the nature of the difficulties in its balance of payments. According to the WTO Committee on Balance of Payments Restrictions, the government should notify the WTO within 30 days of the date on which the decision to increase import duties is effective. And the Committee on Balance of Payments Restrictions should consider these arguments over the next four months. What is the purpose of increasing import duties? The answer. In the context of this law, temporary allowances for import duties are introduced solely in order to achieve balance of payments and to maintain a sufficient level of monetary goods. And finally, the last question. What is the principle behind the choice of goods on which a temporary allowance is placed? The answer. The main indicator is the sharp increase in imports of individual products. So I'd like to give you a couple of examples to make it clear what a trade balance we have. In group 2, carnivorous sub-products — 438 percent of the growth, in some types of pork, primarily inequity — up to 1215 percent in ten months. So let's say, on the wings, with or without all the ends, in 10 months, 16 thousand 610 percent of the imports. And so on and so forth. Therefore, the Committee on Tax, Customs, proposes to the Supreme Council, in accordance with all the international obligations of Ukraine, that the bill be based on the bill and that, in the event of the formation of supplements or proposals by the national deputies, or the government, it should be finalized in a short time in a week and submitted for final consideration by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, we had 10 questions, since the reporter took 2 minutes, let's take 8 minutes to ask. If there's no objection, please sign up, Your Honor. There's a record of a question to our colleague, the head of the committee. On the board, please. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u116	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! Tell me, please, now we see that there is already a need to address the imminent threat to the Ukrainian economy, what is just provided by your letters. Do you think it's possible for a government to make its own decisions without the law going into effect, because you're giving it another 30 days after the validity, I don't know why we're doing it? Why these 30 days, I'd like you to answer when you can come in now? Can the government, by its determination, introduce the things that are being discussed here? And maybe you'll agree with me to write that this law takes effect from the time of publication, like all other legislation? Maybe you'll agree that it doesn't take another 30 days, because we're working in extraordinary situations right now, and it's for the opposite, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u117	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I remind you of article 96 of the Constitution of Ukraine: the government cannot do so by means of decrees. But we give the government the same opportunities as in the Foreign Trade Act, external economic activity. You remember that in extreme cases when a compensatory or anti-dumping duty is imposed, such a decision is taken by a special commission in government. In this law, another idea is to impose a duty allowance on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but the Government, in accordance with the advice of the Committee on Trade Balance Restrictions, may decide for six months to continue this regime for another six months if the balance of payments is not corrected in Ukraine, or on the basis of these consultations, decide on the reduction of those moments that we have set. In no way can the government itself set any new duties or increase their size, such practices are standard for those.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u118	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please, instead of Martiniuk Adam Ivanovich, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u119	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I am also addressing the reporter, the faction of Communists insists on two fundamental things, first of all, we need to take a decision at this difficult time and stop the acts of the law ratified by the treacherous agreement signed by President Yushchenko himself in Geneva on February 5, this year. He betrayed the state and betrayed both the customs space and the economic space to the foreign masters, and that is what we feel today. Secondly, I would like us to understand today that those who had a conversation, and here two months or three months in this rostrum, including Sergey Anatoliyovich, were standing as a flaming fighter for involving Ukraine in SOT and were talking about quite another matter at the time. So today, at least you will apologize to the people of Ukraine for what you have done. Questions in two planes, the first of which was damaged economically by Ukraine, the State of Ukraine during this time because of the unbalanced program of Ukraine’s entry into WTO. And secondly, we suggest we stop in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u120	Let me finish the question. The possibility of finishing the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u121	And secondly, the faction of Communists is not offering today as small steps as you suggest today's decision. In general, we need to make decisions and protect all directions of our economic activity today. Just leaving one is a critical import. Critical imports -- we need to make a separate decision so that today we don't have some of the shadow economy that we're dealing with, and still will be the product that transnational corporations insist on. And the last. We have to rule out our laws today, which is by some methods of the International Monetary Fund. What part of our political sovereignty to the International Monetary Fund have we today given up? So let's put it this way, so-called national patriots of the "sacrifice spill."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u123	Well, Peter Mikolaiovich, you're such a respectable man, well, a "stretching spill." Peter Mikolaiovich, it is paradoxical that your last words have repeated the missions of the Monetary Fund, which insist on any reference to them being excluded, because they deny the adoption of this law, although it in no way violates Ukraine's international obligations. I'm broadcasting my personal conversation with a representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u124	Peter Mikolaiovich! I can't even hear myself! So I'm happy to say that, given that your proposal is in line with the International Monetary Fund's proposal to exclude any links to the International Monetary Fund, let's do it. Regarding the World Trade Organization. So this is the mechanism that's being proposed here that fits perfectly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u125	Allow me to complete the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u126	It is fully in line with the procedures envisaged by the World Trade Organization. She does not approve of such procedures. I had a two-month correspondence with Geneva headquarters about this project, and they say, in shape, it could be, and in spirit, we don't want it, we don't need it. And with regard to Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization in general. This is the right thing to do! Since membership in the World Trade Organization enables us to defend our interests, primarily our exporters, among other things, to participate in all negotiations on agricultural agreements. Previously, we were statisticians. Unfortunately, you are absolutely right that the conditions that we entered into the World Trade Organization, which have been written for thirteen years, have ended with my participation, which, yes, ended with the signing of the only protocol with Japan. Here's my share. So, unfortunately, there were really good positions, we talked about this today when we talked about agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u127	Valentin Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u128	Vladimir. Thank you. Dear friends, here we have heard of imports, over-imports of exports, in particular from food, but nothing has been said about the over-importation of household exports, such as those made in Ukraine. So I want to give you an example of an over-importation in refrigeration equipment of 2.4 times in nine months of 2008, compared to the year before 2008. Gas stoves are 2.2 times in nine months, and another three months will be delivered. I mean, we're getting a lot of money from the household equipment that we're bringing in. And our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our graves, our I'd like that to be taken into account in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u129	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u130	Thank you. I'd like to, I'd like to agree with you, I'd like to draw attention to our committee's draft decision, not our committee's draft decision, there's the last item, let me quote. To assign the Cabinet of Ministers, I would like to say, before the second reading of this bill, to the committee in the section of the individual sectors, a list of goods where the status as of 1 January 2008 was significant, with a significant increase in imports of more than 50 per cent. We're going to add this list if there's a lot of quantity and it's going to affect the balance of payments what we're going to be given. I call on the people's deputies who have this kind of statistics, please let us join the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u131	Eugene Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u132	Thank you. Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street. Dear reporter, you can still tell us a little bit more about whether there will be any sanctions that will be accepted from the WTO to us, because this law will be supported and we need to be supported, and I support it to shorten its consideration to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u133	Thank you. I would like to reiterate once again that according to the 12, 13, 15, 18 articles of the General Trade and Tariff Agreement, such a procedure is foreseen if there is a critical balance of payments. The criticalness of the balance of payments was confirmed by the International Monetary Fund in the same fact that it gave Ukraine a “stand-by” loan. This loan is granted only in the event of a critical balance of payments. Once this law is passed, it will be sent to the HQ, where consultations will take place for four months if they are needed, if any country makes comments. If, on the basis of these consultations, the interest rate has to be reduced, the Kabdin has the right to do so. Let him do it. But I do agree that by January 1st, you have to take a shorter period of action, not 30 days, but maybe 10 days, because there's a problem of blurry. You should.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u134	Please, Demyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u135	Please, pass the word to Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u136	Please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u137	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Sergey Anatolyevich, you and I, as people's deputies, must stand strictly for the protection of our people's national interests and health. I don't know what the logic is when, let's say, the increase in customs fees for certain types of products we should be able to place in the first place to prevent them from being imported. Here's an example. That's where you put 720 percent of your meat. It turns out you allow our people to be fed and are said to be satisfied, you allow them to carry “backs, necks, backs, tails, wings.” What are these approaches? Rats didn't report anything else here. So it's called protection? And here's four percent of that. Then we'll have to drive and it'll be geese, wing tips, ratites, that's what they'll be carrying. How can we treat our people in this way?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u138	Peter Mikolaiovich, once again, I would like to explain the logic of this law. Well, first of all, after the ratas you care about so much, there's 20 percent plus 12 -- there's 32, that's what it is. It's 20 now! Plus 12, it's going to be 32. Well, believe me, it's a little ratty. Here you go. Yeah. Now. The ideology of this law is to improve the balance of payments, the balance of payments. Maybe someone likes ratites, huh? Peter Mikolaiovich, if you are a nation’s fan of ratites, someone may love imported ones. But the main idea. We dropped an effective duty rate for 10 months at 11.5 percent. We propose to raise 12 percent to restore at least the balance that was last year and to reduce the trade deficit in order to correct the payment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u139	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u140	Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u141	We made a decision with you, arranged for 15 minutes to discuss the matter. I ask you to sign up for an address on this subject. Please. There's a recording going on. Let me explain. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. After Carmazin, the national deputy Demyanchuk, a faction of Communists, will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u142	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear national deputies, sadly, today the questions that we have asked have not simply arisen. When we passed the law on the state budget of Ukraine, when we were being returned, we were just proposing code 02 at the time, if you're mentioning, because right now we were asking the leader of the Communist faction questions, we were proposing to set limits. Didn't we suggest that we set limits under the car law, which then, with the President's cry, would change us? The results - the results of the imports of cars by light and other means have increased by 48 percent: necks, wing tips, livers - have been more than 569 percent since the introduction of the law. Well, Your Honor, that's what we're counting on to be so reinvigorated. The total number of meats and edible substitutes in the group is 438. And this is us with you, because our governments, many governments, in the ministries of the economy, have made decisions and agreed to bets, and we haven't received any transitional preferences. That's why we're in this situation right now. And what you're saying right now is that this government, this government didn't make it, they all signed it. And the ideologist is sitting today, as he worked as the first deputy minister of the economy, so does the Friday. Who doesn't know? Everybody knows. But they're holding something. Therefore, the law must be adopted. There's only one thing I care about. I care about what we need now and day and night, and I'm talking to the President, who doesn't like the coalition, who doesn't like anything else. We need to unite our efforts day and night and see that if the vast Russian Federation, where everyone speaks with one voice: the entire State speaks in the voice of Prime Minister Putin, President Medvedev speaks in the voice of Prime Minister Putin, and the entire government speaks in the voice of Putin. They are all opposed to the flood, and they lack their gold reserves, and they have dropped more than 200 billion. And we do this all the time, because they don't vote because they're, you see, opposition. What if it's war? So, for the opposition, will there be individual trenches? And now the crisis is coming. There's no need for any single trenches. We should all do it together. [[Applause]] Thank you for your support. So I would ask you to consider this law only the first. I'm talking to Sergei Anatoliovich Teriochin. Here, in this law, it has to be written that takes effect from the moment of publication. That's the first one. And the second. I think we need to adopt legislation now on automobile maintenance, shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u143	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u144	That's absolutely right. I was corrected by Zebravsky, and by the increase in certification and influence that horns and hooves should not be brought here. That's right. You understand! You finally get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u145	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Demyanchuk, Communist faction Please. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko of the Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, when discussing this draft law, I think that one thing I should do is allow the brain to be transported to Ukraine. Judging by what's going on, three months after there's been so much fuss, there's been so many spells about us making decisions, entering the SATs, we're going to be the richest. In the end, this is where you, Mr. Carmazin, are supposed to be thinking, not now, but when you've made your decision. Then you voted, the entire faction of our Ukraine, like the others, voted in favour of joining the SOTA. Today you begin to take icons into your hands and talk about what you are holy. You took a traitorous position when you gave up the economic space, gave up the car, handed over the farmer, handed over the metalworks, handed over everyone, sold them all in the interests of the importers, and they were your arrangements here, and returned the clan's demolitions. Therefore, if we speak today, we must admit that decisions have not been made professionally, but who is the chief, who has taken responsibility and signed this criminal act? The President himself, the seer, as they say and know what he's doing, your leader did it all. This is how we recognize today that, without taking into account the national interests of Yushchenko in Geneva, he has signed this agreement and betrayed the people of Ukraine. Importers' markets have been opened, they've opened up to bring a foreigner in here. And look what you've done, you've authorized the use of genetically modified products, you've allowed vaccines to be brought here to kill our children. And you think you're national patriots and you're insulted that we're telling you that you're pathetic patriots? And that's true! And you now acknowledge to the people of Ukraine that in a crisis you have surrendered the people of Ukraine. What should we do today? Of course, a decision must be taken within the framework of a decision, not by a single action, as we propose today to suspend action, secondly, a clear understanding must be made in the Government, which is a critical import and then support our agricultural producer, and all others who work in the internal market. Today, it must be understood that these measures will only work when we make the banking system work, not on the bank's owner's pocket, but on the national economy. Then we will do everything we can to balance our citizens' consumer capacities and incomes so that we can understand today that there will only be an order in the State when we balance our incomes and are hard in crisis to control the price policy in the State for the benefit of the people of Ukraine, and not as these holes are now being offered to be patched up. Therefore, in closing my statement, I would like once again, on behalf of the faction, to draw your attention, distinguished people's deputies, colleagues. You should finally stand above your own interests today and be truly deputies from.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u147	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u148	It is the people of Ukraine who are the deputies. What is happening today is just a confirmation that before that 17 years was a traitoric policy, it must be corrected today. If you are the patriots of the people, you will make decisions today in the complex, not in part as you think you will please some today, tomorrow to others. I think that this pinch policy that you're pursuing needs to be completed, but that's what you're responsible for. But in the end, take courage, stand up on this rostrum and admit not only your mistakes but also your criminal actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u149	Pavlov Zebrovsky, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u150	I like it most when the ungodly try to be more holy to the popes of Rome. I like it most when people call on their own faction makers not in the Tavria, not in the Lanos, but in the Mercedes and so on. I mean, I like it the most when the oligarchs are branded, and their factions support the same oligarchs, but they're the only ones who've been vilified, and it's not the Ukrainian oligarchs, but the Russian oligarchs that I like most. And I just want to say, guys, you don't have to rip your shirt off, you don't have to tell me how cool you are. And we have to say what to do with the economy of Ukraine, which is actually in crisis. What we can agree on is that a complex approach is needed, not a choice of direction. Sergei Anatoliyovich, according to article 12 that we signed with the WTO, we have the right to raise bets, but bets on all production, not selectively what you say. In fact, this would require a clear and clear approach to these questions and decisions. I think today the balance of payments isn't as bad as it used to be, because the devaluation of the bracelets that were allowed, and not only the acceptance of the WTO, but, first of all, the devaluation of the bracelets allowed enough imports to flow into the Ukrainian market, and the fact that Mr. Landik spoke with regard to household technology and so on. And loans in dollars, also the foolish position of the National Bank. And here we have to be honest, it led to what we started, the people of Ukraine, to buy imports, not Ukrainian goods. I think this law is definitely going to be adopted and corrected on the first reading long enough for the second reading and we're going to come up with some things that we can understand. But I would like to go to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the committees that are responsible for economic policy, customs and taxes, you don't need selective "tips" that need a comprehensive program. You don't have to do some of the stuff: metallurgical, chemical. Let's get the demand for Ukrainian products. Let's finance the demand for Ukrainian products. Then it'll be an honest policy and then we won't play with some people, with some businessmen, but we'll work for the economy of Ukraine. Then this complex approach is going to be an anti-crisis package of laws. We don't need, in fact, to be in Parliament to make a decision on the concept of getting out of the crisis, and on the basis of this concept we already have to draft those bills that we can do, because today there is no government, no Committee on Economic Policy, no Committee on Customs and Taxation, and I don't think there's actually going to be any more of that concept to sit on, and since you're going to the government meetings often enough, so, guys, work, suggest to the Supreme Council, and I don't think there's going to be a division of left, right, patriots and not patriots, because really.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u151	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u152	With some exception, the National Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine sit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u153	Dear colleagues, speak up. I'd like to sign up if you're not registered, then please, People's Deputies Landik, no problem. Replica at the end before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u154	Dear colleagues, you see, here's the approach we always have in our country, someone we let carry wings, and there's the back of chickens. Someone lets us all drive and sell and so on and bury our own manufacturer. Let's get the sitters here. Someone's gonna find their clothes on. You won't find anything, we don't have a needle, we don't have a thread, we don't have a button, we don't have anything! Our home country doesn't release anything! Therefore, we must approach this law to close everything! If we don't close it all now, we'll get over it, but let's get the country out to a small producer. This is where they talked about other banking issues, helping banks, and someone said we should give small businesses credit. In the Lugansk region, coal mines were used in every city, some of them were closed, most of them were built, and some of them were built by their wives and almost every city. So no sewing factory sews anything for Ukraine, no orders, nothing. There is no government support programme because it brings China, Turkey and interrupts everything. And these factories end up with millions of dollars of government money invested in remodeling them. So why don't we take it away, why don't we wear our own clothes? Because we're getting out of there because. I don't know the whole Kabmin or part of it is sitting on scraps of imports. Why, then, do we have a thousand times the increase in meat production and so forth? Yeah. So let's get over it once, but let's shut it down and try to get our country out so that it's worthy of you and our President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u155	Thank you. Now, the committee head, please, microphone for one minute. After that, a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, then a lineup, and we'll vote. Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've had a brief discussion. Such conclusions can be drawn. First. On the second reading, we need to look again very carefully at the expansion of the list of products that have high import growth rates. And I invite you in this, you know, rapid order to make these proposals with customs statistics to the committee. It's different. We need to look at the shortening of the time frame for this bill to be put into effect. And so, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you for another vote on shortening the terms of his consideration. And the last. I'd like to talk to you about what the allowance should be for. I would like to quote article 12, paragraph 3 (b), of the GAT: “The parties that apply the restrictions in accordance with this article can determine the scope.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u157	Let me finish my quote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u158	may determine the extent of restrictions on imports of different goods or groups of goods in such a way as not to discriminate against imports of those products which are more important.” In this case, it would be completely illogical if we put this 12 percent supplement on natural gas or uranium raw material, right? So let's look at the products that compete with Ukrainians with competition rules and where they are large. There's a big increase. And finally, I would like to vote with such a remark, agree with the distinguished Peter Mikolayovich that for his proposal, any reference to this organization from the draft law should be excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u159	Thank you. Yes, please, the government, and the position of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u160	Ministry of Finance. I want to point out that in general, the WTO agreement actually allows for the application of the balance-of-payment limit to settle the balance-of-payment problems to temporarily increase the rates. But it does not allow for the discrimination of such an increase and selective increase in individual product groups. In addition, the balance-of-payment regulation against the rate increase contradicts the International Monetary Fund's statute, which provides support to stand-by only if import restrictions are not applied. What's more, I want to point out that raising rates is the most destructive thing for the economy. the way to maintain the balance of payments, because in such a case not only are trade-restricted and due to adequate measures regarding Ukraine under such restrictions, but the situation of our citizens is further deteriorating. Because in such a case, citizens have to pay extra for the price increase that happens when any of these are raised, usually. Therefore, I believe that it is possible only if the third paragraph of Chapter 2 is deleted, and also what Paul Zebrovsky said regarding references to the International Monetary Fund and the shortening of the terms provided for in paragraph 3.5. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u161	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the speeches are over. When we worked together, there were two names of both Carmazin and Peter Simonnka. So after a minute of talking, there was a reference. Please don't give me names. Please. We have another bill to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u162	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that my request to join forces has been taken as a signal to attack. You don't have to do this. I want to say that in suspending the operation, the need to suspend the operation of the WTO treaty, the Party of Fatherland Defenders declared a month ago. And to the chairman. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! Paragraph 3.3 of the bill, which is now being proposed, violates the constitutional rights of Ukrainian national deputies, the President of Ukraine, to the legislative initiative. There is this point, it is written: In other cases, proposals by other legal entities besides the Cabinet of Ministers are not subject to inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking the question of excluding this issue in the first reading as anti-constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u163	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u164	Dear colleagues, I would like to refer to you once again, given that the crisis of the various experts' assessments may last for up to five years. We will not correct the balance that we are talking about here, because primary exports are raw materials, which will inevitably lead to serious consequences. Therefore, once again, I would like to propose that the adoption of this document should require the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately develop a list of critical imports for our country, and thus we will have a clear understanding that our manufacturer is not in a position to provide and that it will necessarily be necessary to support those who provide transportation to Ukraine to secure our manufacturer. And the second question. A decision must be taken today and the National Bank of Ukraine must be banned from promoting the exchange rate difference or the attitude of the bracelet to the dollar. We have to force the National Bank to do what the principal of the bracelet considers to be, let's say, a unit of payment. And make them go into production instead of playing the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have considered an extremely difficult bill. Clearly, there is a need to protect the internal market. I would very much ask, in preparing for the second reading, a committee that takes into account the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, to make such a decision that we do not be exposed to appropriate action by our trading partners. They did not come in contravention of those international organizations in which Ukraine already exists. It's data. That's the first one. And the second. It's quite logical to ask the question of the need to define a list of critical imports in order to make it clear that countries that are problems are absolutely needed. So I would ask the committees to deal with the proposals. With your permission, we will send an appropriate letter to the Cabinet of Ministers to submit an offer agreed with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the third. Dear colleagues, it is clear that such a law is necessary. We have to clean it up with proposals, let's say Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, because there are certain violations of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the powers exclusively of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they are replaced by powers or transfers of these powers exclusively to the Cabinet of Ministers. But this is about preparing for the second reading of the bill. And this is a proposal, if you support it, to propose that we shorten the deadlines for preparation for second reading so that we can consider it on Thursday and accept it as a law. We don't have time to follow procedures. We're working what's called wheels, in vertigo. Therefore, taking into account such proposals as your statements, I am voting on the basis of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in order to improve Ukraine’s balance of payments in connection with the global financial crisis in preparation when it is adopted on the basis of the second reading before the next plenary week, that is, Thursday. [[Registration number 3379]] And counting. If you make your offer, we'll put it to a vote and count accordingly. We can't put it now, we're taking it as a base. Based on the base. Vote please, Your Honor. [[18:26:02]] For 264 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 2, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 150, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 66, Communist faction – 26, “Litvina Block” – 20. And also, honourable colleagues, taking into account the suggestions of the Landik People’s Deputies, need to look at the extension of this law in preparation for the second reading. Thank you. Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on the development of automobiles and other sectors of domestic industry]] Registration number 3430. Correspondent of the National Deputy of Ukraine Natalia Yuriovna Kraljevska. A member of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kranji Valerij Grigorovich, will be the focal point. The committee proposes that, honourable colleagues, such rules of procedure be taken into account. For a report up to five minutes, the answers to questions up to three minutes, for a co-report similar to the one proposed to discuss the decision-making process for three minutes, obviously that's not enough, let's write at least ten. Adam Ivanovich, please make Martinyuk a proposal on the procedure for consideration and regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u166	From the people. Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you not to read any more of what the committees are proposing, because they are following an old woman, unfortunately, or fortunately we have everything defined in the Rules. No matter what he wants, the committee can't replace the Rules. So let's give three minutes to the interviewer today, three to the question, and in summary procedure, let's vote on the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u167	Dear colleagues! There's also this proposal, so I'd like to ask the reporters to report as closely as possible so that we can accept it quickly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u168	Dear colleagues! I would like to address our colleagues who are now leaving the room because we have been talking about an integrated approach for a long time, precisely this bill, which has an integrated approach to the entire processing industry. And respectable fellow MPs, let's get this over with, and then I'll answer all the questions. Dear fellow MPs! Respectable voters! You are invited to consider a draft Ukrainian Act amending some legislation to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on the development of automobiles and other domestic industries. We all remember very well the outcome of 9 months 2008 of the tremendous growth rate of the domestic gross product, the excellent growth rate of the processing industry. Unfortunately, however, the global financial and economic crisis has worsened. And our businesses have lost both the ability of credit resources, both domestic consumption and consumer credit. And today, the loss of the crisis by motorists alone is about $3.5 billion and the industry is, of course, in a serious and deep crisis. Likewise, joining the World Trade Organization, which we have just discussed, has been of great importance. And our producers have given up a significant share of the domestic market for imports. There is no need to reduce the underdevelopment of the owners themselves, business managers, because, as far as we have not talked about WTO accession, as the need for modernization, as the need for investment, processes have unfortunately been slow enough. And now we want to talk, not about "tapping individual holes" in this bill, but about a fairly comprehensive approach, we understand that there will be a need for further reading. But I want to remind you all that the processing industries are now working: in food production -- 447,000 people, in metal manufacturing and manufacturing -- about 400,000 people, in production of machinery and equipment -- about 290,000 workers, in production of vehicles and equipment -- about 230,000 workers, in production of electrical, electronic and optical equipment -- 161 thousand workers. I will stress that many enterprises have made it possible to be more responsible for improving their core funds and modernizing production. We have also heard a lot about social responsibility in business, but unfortunately the social responsibility of business has also been lost with the crisis. And today, the employees of the enterprise have, in principle, been held hostage to the fact that the enterprises themselves are unfortunately uncompetitive. And what has not been done for ten years is now in order to survive under harsh conditions, in order to remain competitive, in order to preserve the domestic national product, we understand that the modernization of the enterprise must not be done in ten but, to a maximum, in one and a half years and a half years. And the task of the State is to create today all the conditions for money to be invested in our economy, the domestic economy. Therefore, we now need to import new, less energy-intensive equipment, more productive, otherwise we understand that we will continue to lose our share in the internal market. Unfortunately, the core funds of Ukrainian enterprises are now more than 60 per cent on average, while the moral aging rate is about 90 per cent. Of course, it is not possible to make high-quality products of this kind of equipment even theoretically. In Ukraine, however, our Eastern European neighbours have lower depreciation rates than similar young economies, and this is particularly true of the third group of goods. In addition, Ukrainian enterprises are now denied the possibility of importing equipment that is not produced in Ukraine because they do not have Ukrainian analogues because import duties, even though we have joined the WTO today, are quite high. As a result, we have a rather lamentable appearance. Against the backdrop of the growing world crisis, there has been a decline in production in the processing industry. We therefore propose, first of all, that the processing industry provide a 20 per cent rate of accelerated depreciation, thus a four-year depreciation cycle. Secondly, the customs duty should be exempt from the payment of equipment imported by the processing industry provided that similar equipment is not produced in Ukraine. Thirdly, the production of motor vehicles will be referred to as strategic priority innovation activities in Ukraine. Fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u169	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u170	I propose to extend the Ukrainian Automotive Development Act. The global crisis has also led to a decline in domestic demand. And I would like to draw your attention to all the deputies present in this room. In order to protect our domestic producers now, we propose to establish, temporarily by 2011, that the purchase of goods, works and services for public money is exclusively for domestic producers. This restriction applies only to goods not produced in Ukraine. The law therefore provides benefits, we must understand, not for business owners in times of crisis, but the law allows businesses to keep their money at home in order to reinvest and upgrade equipment as soon as possible. Therefore, I appeal to all, colleagues, when you vote, I ask you not to forget that the processing industry is more than a million people, which includes more than 8 industries and not a political vote, but now for economic reasons to protect our workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u171	Questions. Please sign up, your honors. Please show me the list of national deputies who have signed up. National MP Gordienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u172	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u173	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u174	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I'd like you to answer the main question. We are working today to protect our industries. And if we're talking about the processing industry, in this case, for someone to make mixers, they're not the basic funds that really require depreciation of 25 per cent. Amortization of 25 per cent is an increase in the holiday price of a product, and that is understandable to everyone. If we're talking about auto building, I really understand that we need to protect our businesses today, so that we have the basic enterprises that produce this product. A mass of other enterprises will continue to operate naturally in cooperation. And we have a machine built, one of the best in Europe, including. Can't we get mixers and another one for processing? It'd be a shame if it all worked out. If there are those that are related, let's say, to medical equipment and so on, I demand imports, that's understandable. And if we can make it ourselves, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u175	Thank you very much, Petr Nikolaevich. I want to remind everyone. According to Goskomstat's qualifications, the processing industry includes: food industry, light industry, woodworking, paper pulp, chemical, petroleum, machinery, metal and coke production. So we're talking about a huge segment. We're not talking about mixers, we're not talking about pencils and paper, we're talking about preferences for the processing industry today. With regard to depreciation, we are only talking about a third group of goods. The 3rd group of goods has a very clear qualification, which is more than a year of operation and more than a certain price, which has been established by law. That's why we're not talking about all the depreciation. And you're absolutely right here that we don't need depreciation for lunches and for telephones, we need amortization for basic funds and to modernize businesses that are now with a core fund of over 60 to 90 per cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u176	People's Deputy Klimenko, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u177	Alexander Klimenko, Ukrainian National Party Dear Natalia Yuriovna, surely welcoming your proposal on this bill, I will personally support it, but I would like to point out where else. You just said in your speech that it would have to be a domestic manufacturer. Of course, buy Ukrainian, consume Ukrainian, produce Ukrainian -- it's supposed to be the main slogan of this bill. But we don't have a native engine, we have, unfortunately, what your faction leader said that with the adoption of the anti-crisis bill on the agricultural sector, its support of almost 10 million tonnes will be able to consume metal, but today our natural industry is not ready and it has to be taken into account in the first place, which will have to make a substantial improvement in the condition and in the machine building. And this will provide the prerequisites for us to feed our consumer market with domestic and Ukrainian goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u178	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to quote the rule of law that, in order to protect the domestic economy from the effects of the global financial crisis, it is necessary to establish that the purchase of goods, works, services for public funds is carried out by domestic producers of these goods, works and services other than those not produced in Ukraine. So we understand very well that there is a need to develop as an internal market. But at the same time, we cannot give up abruptly without parallel production and analogue products inside. But I believe that if we start buying most of our domestic goods for government money today, it will be the first example for all Ukrainians to buy Ukrainian, protect Ukrainian and support Ukrainian domestic goods themselves. This is a major task for us today. Because until we return to domestic demand, unfortunately no one will help us, we must support ourselves and support our businesses today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u179	Thank you. Natalia Yuriovno, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u181	Time's up. I can't, I'm too sorry. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, from the committee. Valery Grigorovich! Is there a Grand Valery Grigorovich? Please take the position of the committee, and then we will be determined as to the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u182	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on December 3, eighth year, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on the development of automobiles and other sectors of domestic industry, number 4330). Submitted by the People's Deputies of Ukraine to the Royal, the Krajini, the Gorbal, the Baburin. The aim of the bill is to stimulate the development of the domestic industry, to upgrade production, including through the acquisition of core funds, to create conditions for manufacturing enterprises to cope with crises and to prevent the reduction of investment in production, production and jobs. Today, it is crucial to tackle the problems of the manufacturing industry at the legislative level that effective measures are needed to ensure a solution to the crisis and further development. The very manufacturing industry is the foundation of the entire economy, and its state depends on ensuring the economic and national security of the State as a whole. The chief scientific expert of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus concluded on December 4 that the bill could be adopted in the first reading, taking into account the comments made. The comments made to the specific provisions of the bill will be processed and taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. National MPs, members of the committee have adopted a decision on the draft Act “On amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on the development of motor vehicles and other sectors of the domestic industry” to submit to the Supreme Council for consideration and propose to adopt it as a basis. Please support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u183	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The honourable national MPs and the drafter of the bill and the committee have expressed their position, they offer to accept it as a basis, to allow it to be processed expeditiously. So I think let's make this decision. But now that I understand the situation, I'm going to put it to a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare. The regulations are designed to show the readiness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, I would like to ask the distinguished national deputies to come into the session room. I put to a vote, a signal vote, on the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to minimize the impact of the financial crisis on the development of automobilising and other sectors of the domestic industry. Please vote. It's a signal vote. [[18:43:01]] For 231 Decision taken. One proposal, Yuri Carmazin, we vote for one minute. 30 seconds, please. Please, Your Honor, we must do as planned today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u184	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to enter the stenographer's offer. I would like to add to the Priority Directions Act: trams, except for automobiles, buses, bicycles, mopeds. We had previously released HTZ and “Verkhovina” and “Dnipro” on the “Yushmaši” trams. And I also suggest that we include, because there are certain types of goods here, so 61, 62, 63, 64, 65 is just clothes and what we can do in Ukraine is right here and other sectors of domestic production. For the second reading, I understand all our friends, but I wish we didn't just throw it out and write it down, and it definitely came in when we were working on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like the committee to consider the proposal of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin in preparing the bill for second reading And in view of that, I'm voting on the adoption of the bill, registration number 3430, amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts with the proposal of the committee to work on it for, say, six days so that we can adopt it next week. [[on minimizing the impact of the financial crisis on the development of automobiles and other sectors of domestic industry]] Please vote against this proposal. Please vote. [[18:45:04]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Please, Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u186	The Communist faction, Alexandrovsky, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! It is understandable why we voted in favour of this bill on first reading. No one objects to the fact that the core funds should indeed be upgraded. It is therefore necessary to introduce a fast-track depreciation mechanism, but Vladimir Mihajlovich, the issue of the price of goods has not been raised here. After all, accelerant accelerant affects the final price of the goods being produced. Today, we need to make our domestic Ukrainian competitive. I would like to take this factor into account before this second reading is finalized, and this modernization will not result in a higher price being paid by the consumer for our Ukrainian goods?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-11-m1.u187	Thank you, dear colleagues, I would ask the committee to consider this proposal, it is urgent and timely. Dear National Deputies! Questions that were scheduled for consideration today, on Thursday, in the plenary session, all discussed. Dear colleagues, we agreed that tomorrow we would first consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the 2008 State Budget and amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, taking into account what this means for the Pension Fund, all categories, including those decisions that have been taken with regard to miners. This is also a decision of the Conciliation Board, so I'd like to take that into account. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. Thank you, Your Honor. Good luck!
