ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. There are 426 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, Prime Minister Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko and Vice-Prime Minister and Ministers participate in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we agreed at the Conciliation Council that after the Government had introduced the 2009 project of the State Budget of Ukraine, which had been finalized in connection with the events that were taking place in the world and in Ukraine, the budget would be presented. I would like to emphasize the presentation of the budget. This procedure is proposed, for a report to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for up to 30 minutes, answers to questions from the national deputies for ten minutes and statements from the factions, from the Committee on Budgets, Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, on the proposal for a procedure for further work on the draft document. And after that, we continue our work. I was approached by Alexander Alexander Omelchenko about a bill that the President defined as urgent about the local self-government association, as we set a date, and we determined for an hour that at 16 hours we would consider presenting the budget, and then we would go back to that question so that we wouldn't have any misunderstandings. We made a deal like that, we made a deal. We therefore turn to the presentation of Ukraine's 2009 draft State Budget. The Prime Minister of Ukraine Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna has the floor. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u2	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Today, the Government of Ukraine, following the formation of the majority in Parliament, is presenting the documents needed by the countries to undergo the difficult tests of the global financial crisis in order to balance our activities, in order to offer to all branches of government, the entire Ukraine's Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers on overcoming the impact of the global financial and economic crisis and progressive development, as well as the 2009 National Budget of Ukraine based on this programme. Today, the government of Ukraine has introduced a programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers to parliament, and the report of this program is certainly an integral part of the foundation, the 2009 State Budget Framework. I would like to say immediately about the priority tasks in this very difficult year for the world. I don't think we need to tell you, the people's deputies and the country, that today the whole world is breaking down with a financial and economic crisis, that not only are the countries of post-Radians today, but all the countries of the world themselves developed, stable themselves, the liberals themselves have very serious problems, which are initially related to the banking crisis, then as a result, to the economic recession. I think every country in the world today is facing a challenge. And what's important today is a clear understanding of the way and this way of consolidating the work of all branches of power. You know, with the second one in Ukraine, it's extremely difficult as a minimum with one branch, it's still difficult, everything else, I think we can consolidate. What about Ukraine’s priorities? First of all, it is necessary to achieve macroeconomic stability, which is based on the coordinated work of the National Bank, which must provide a course of stability in a country that needs to provide adequate monetary and credit parameters, to provide credit rates for the real economy sector that can ensure a steady rise and halt those negatives that are today, in addition to the correct budgeting and proper formation of all the indicators related to budget deficits and gross domestic product. Of course, one of the priorities is to heal and restore the normal functioning of financial markets. And now, as I report on the government's anti-crisis agenda, I want to get your attention right away, which is one of the first points in our program, which is in conjunction with the national banking system for the development of that package of legislation that can help mitigate the crisis, protect the banking system. Such a bill will be adopted tomorrow at a government meeting with representatives of the working group of the national banking system and will ensure, during this difficult period, the stability of Ukraine's banking system in terms of proper legislative activity. I think that version of the bill will answer the banking system as it does today in such a difficult time of crisis. One of the main tasks is to minimize the negative social consequences of a balanced and responsible social policy, increase economic activity and restore economic growth after, of course, achieving stability and fulfilling tasks aimed at further approaching European standards in all areas of life. Once again, for the medium term, we have five key challenges: creating conditions for crisis, overcoming crisis and post-crisis development, removing infrastructure constraints on development, raising the technological level of industry, creating a modern agro-industry complex and continuing integration into world space. At the current stage, Ukraine’s economic challenges are divided into two: first, to overcome the crisis and, secondly, to achieve stable development. I can tell you that some of the numbers I'd like to give indicate a certain magnitude of the crisis. I want you to look at the dynamics of Ukraine's gross domestic product in 2008 and you'll see that starting with September of the month when we had GDP dynamics, when we had 6.5 growth dynamics in the second half of the year, 7,1, 6, 9, from September of the month, as in all countries of the world, the economy started to give recession and decline. We already have 5.8 GDP growth dynamics in September and 11 months is 3.6. So from the maximum we had, 7.1 we have 3.6 today. And we have to report that the global financial crisis has not stopped, it continues to take turns in the world, and it continues to increase all the absolute components of the economic downturn. Besides, I'd like you and I to see how Ukraine's GDP looks in the background of other countries, that's important, because you know that in Ukraine today there's talk that the whole world lives well, and in Ukraine there is such a problem. So I want to show you the GDP in Ukraine and other states in the third quarter of 2008, and you're going to see that Latvia, Denmark, Italy and all the other countries have given a serious drop. In nine months Ukraine was 6.9, 11 - 3.6 years old. So the point is that at a time when all the countries are more or less unstable and even the averages have fallen, the recession is already in the third quarter, Ukraine still has a positive growth dynamic. And if you saw that 3.6 we still have until the eleventh month, November, in industrial production, we have negative 0.7 in eleven months, even though we have very high rates of 8-8.8. Industrial dynamics in particular economic activities, food industry, light industry, chemical, petroleum, especially metallurgical, engineering, electricity, gas, and water distribution. You can see that these indicators, I think now 16 slides will show, say that the key areas in Ukraine today are very and very damaged by the global financial crisis. And even what we're seeing today is the decline in electricity and gas consumption in the European Union by more than 20 percent, and in Ukraine at about the same level, says that industry, the manufacturing sector, the real economy even stops taking energy in the amount of energy that they took to the beginning of the crisis. But at the same time, I would like us to look at industry in Ukraine and other countries, this is a separate indicator for us to see what industry looks like in the world. And when we look at the percentage increase to the corresponding month of the previous year, you'll see that Spain, Estonia, Ukraine, France, Italy, Japan -- 6.7 downs, the EU -- 5.3 downs, the US -- 4.3 downs. It is meant that even countries that are completely successful, stable, well-structured economically today have huge downturns and very serious recessions. That is why today we are simply obliged to pay attention to the situation and to work on adequate measures, and not only in industry, metallurgy, chemistry, but also in the agricultural sector, because the world’s grain markets have fallen, and our Ukrainian crop today does not find markets in the world, and this is still against the background that the European Union has restricted the export of grain to its territory from many countries, including Ukraine. A very difficult situation in construction too. I'm asking you to see what the world looks like in terms of the collapse of construction work. If you see this table right now, you'll realize that construction started to fall first, and it continues to have a very, very serious stagnation. All the countries that are given are European countries, as a whole of the European Union, the fall is taking place practically around the world. As a result, the consumption of the metal-market complex, the construction complex, and of course this is happening to everyone without excluding the enterprises that are in the technological chains. At the same time, the situation is compounded by the devaluation of national currencies relative to the U.S. dollar in virtually every country in the world. But the question is, what devaluation must there be? How is the value of the national currency being reduced in other parts of the world today? I'm asking you, look, please, language goes from October 1st to December 19th what devaluation looks like. If we are looking in all countries, even those countries that were close to the default have a lower decline in the value of the national currency than in Ukraine. The smaller, the more the fall occurred in Brazil - 18.7 during this period, but Ukraine has a fall of 38.5. It is clear that this policy of the National Bank creates conditions where it will be very difficult to return monetary loans to both banks and industrial enterprises, to all economic actors. At this rate, it is not possible to return loans to consumers and mortgages to Ukrainian citizens. And of course, this course is going to be a major inflationary outflow. This is the challenge that is born in Ukraine and that, unfortunately, everyone will have to be held accountable for this challenge. That's why I want to say that if the National Bank is in the coming days, or maybe we have another week and a half, no more, it doesn't stabilize the currency at an economically sound and financially sound level of 6-6.5, we're going to have big problems in the country and with inflation, and with the banking situation, and with the situation in every enterprise and in every family. That's why I'm very counting on the findings of the Special Investigation Commission to be considered in the near future, and we'll be able to get an answer to the question, namely, the professional management of the National Bank. With regard to macroeconomic projections, which are foreseen both in the Government's Action Programme and in the budget that is now being presented to you. I want you to look at the real GDP dynamics in the world and in Ukraine, the 2009 forecast. So that we can get a sense of what the whole world is like. You can see that some countries have openly planned a decline in GDP. And that means that everything about the forecasts of the euro, about the projections of the developed countries, of the United States, of the forecasts of the AIF and, in addition, of Japan being given to you here for comparison, according to the forecasts of the AMF and other world organizations, you see that the decline in GDP is planned. With regard to countries such as Russia, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, they have not yet dared to plan their downturn budgets. We in Ukraine have chosen a medium-pessimistic path that can have a right to life if a country at the level of leadership, parliament, government, president, national bank, starts to work in a coherent and systematic manner. If the budget of Ukraine is accepted, we can count on real GDP dynamics of 0.4 percent. Once again, the forecast is rather optimistic in terms of the state that is unfolding in the world today, but at the same time, I think that the national elite of Ukraine has to do a little bit higher than to say stagnation and work to avoid such a major stagnation in Ukraine in 2009. Another macroindicator is inflation. Evolution of consumer price indices in 2008. I'd like you to first look at what inflation looked like last year and this year. We've combined two years into one table, and I ask you to show me, please, and you'll see how much inflation we got at the beginning of the year, and that's an inheritance of almost 17 percent inflation. And then we got through these effects and we came out, and now you see it on the table, in blue -- this is last year's inflation, in red -- this year's inflation, starting in July of the month. You can see that last year, from two to two and a half times the inflation of this same period of time was greater than this year, despite the course of leaps, despite the colossal crisis and despite the government's outright obstruction of work. This means that if we compare July to November inflation this year and in the past, our government, despite the crisis, demonstrated on average two and a half times lower inflation rates over this period. And I want to say that this is the kind of policy that makes it possible to hope that stability in Ukraine will still be born. Unemployment rate, another macroeconomic indicator. And if we look at the International Labour Organization what the rising unemployment rate looks like in all countries, you'll see that in the European Union, the ILO methodology from 6.8 unemployment is going to go up to 7.1. In such countries, both U.S. and 5.7 and 6.1 are stable. And if we take every country in the world, they're setting pretty serious unemployment rates. In Ukraine, we're also planning growth and we're planning to increase the pessimistic growth that we can see right now is 8.8 percent. And now we're proposing a program for overcoming unemployment, which I would like to talk about separately. I think overcoming unemployment is, first of all, creating new jobs based on new infrastructure-wide investment projects. In addition, the maximum pooling of business owners, trade unions, governments, all branches of government to stabilize the situation and work together to preserve the labour force during this difficult time of the global financial crisis. Producer price indices are another macro-indicator that plans for the 2009 budget for today. The producer price index, please show me, we had 2007 where inflation was set up in 2008. In 2007, 23.3 percent of producers’ prices ended with inflation, and it immediately reflected on the consumer price index for all goods and services. In 2008, we recorded up to 21 percent. 2009, we have a 12 percent forecast of the price rise of producers. And this is another indicator that will help stabilize the macroeconomic situation. Now I want to move on to another very important component of the program, this is social stability. And the budget that we're going to offer is based on what social costs are, if this is about the benefits, if this is about other components of the tax system, stability, not reduction, not reduction, but a serious revision, for which benefits are paid, to which benefits are paid, and if these benefits are not entitled to life, they must be reduced, starting with benefits to officials, deputies, benefits to those categories that are not provided with financial resources. But by the key categories that today have deserved benefits where the state has to help, the benefits will be saved and will not be touched and the crisis that has unfolded in the world today. In addition, the average monthly wage is planned for 2009, compared to 2008, in 2008 it is expected to be 1840, in 2009, including an inflation rate of 2,093. So I want to emphasize that given the inflationary components, the average wage is planned on a scale that makes people feel stable at social costs. Exports and imports of goods. We will continue to narrow the gap between import and export. And you know that the devaluation of the bracelet will definitely result in similar consequences. As for the anti-crisis actions that I'd like to say in a concise way right now, but so that it's clear what the government is going to do. First, we're talking about creating tax policies that will enable us to support the real sector of the economy. I am convinced that right after New Year's Eve, we will be able to start a systematic work with you on the basis of all the factions of the Supreme Council on the new Tax Code. The time had come to do so, and it was time to give the country a new Tax Code. The other one. We are now taking the first step, the first step that is in the bills that are presented today in Parliament, is to simplify the tax system. We offer to virtually cancel 14 extra taxes that Ukraine has placed on the last stages of the world tax classifications, and we also propose that when the budget is adopted, another qualitative step should be taken -- and instead of the countless taxes on the Wages Fund, make a single social contribution that will allow for the optimization of all taxes, will allow for the simplification of all reporting procedures, make it clear, transparent and understandable. I am convinced that in the Tax Code we will be able to substantially reduce taxes by optimizing their numbers and optimizing the tax itself, which will be budgetary. I think that one of the key mappings, basically our main task is to stabilize Ukraine's banking system. In this direction, the government is planning a fairly thorough programme of recapitalisation of the banking system and the capitalisation of state banks, and also a substantial change in the taxation of the banking system to enable the banking system to respond more flexibly and more effectively to all the challenges of the banking crisis. In addition, the government is planning 44 billion dollars for 2009 to recapitalize the banking system. In addition to those conditions that will be perceived by banks that will allow banks to completely eliminate their internal gaps and allow the state to have reliable pledges under this recapitalisation, and then, after the recovery of the banking system, return all pledges, including stocks to those banks that have saved through the recapitalisation system. And this will also allow a more substantial improvement in the bank's liability to customers. I think that tomorrow at the government meeting, we can, together with the banking system, propose a comprehensive bill. I'm convinced that we need you and I to fully restore the functioning of the banking system. Then we have a chance at everything else. If the banking system doesn't get on its feet, the real economy will be extremely difficult to raise. With regard to the development of entrepreneurship and the real economy. The government's action programme, the anti-crisis government's action programme is proposing some very clear steps that the government has taken today and will take to prevent a crisis in the metallurgical complex and support at this difficult moment. First of all, we've completely changed the whole VAT return system, day after day. Because they're circulation costs. We took off all the natural gas prices. And today, companies will get at the same price that we import gas, a penny in cash. We've done everything we can to get the government to supply coal mines that extract coke and three times lower the price for coke coal because the main component of the price of metal in Ukraine is coke coal and also provide compensation for mines. We've taken a number of steps that are linked to the cost of the services of the University for our entire mining and metallurgical complex. I think that we will continue to move towards adopting special anti-crisis bills for each sector. For the metallurgy sector, for the construction sector, for the chemical industry, for the agro-industry industry, because only the targeted measures outlined in the Government's Action Programme can legally have a positive impact on the real economy sector. I think now is the time for us to engage with you in a fundamental deregulation of all business in Ukraine and to simplify all procedures without exception that relate to the allocation of land to social needs for macro-infrastructure projects. What is involved in supporting small and medium-sized businesses? I can tell you that the bill has been drafted. They're in the Supreme Council, and I hope that right after New Year's Eve we'll give small and medium-sized business the maximum deregulation and maximum simplification of all bureaucratic procedures. Stimulating investment activities will be built up as follows. First. The government itself will become an investment agency immediately after New Year's Eve, which will be able to meet every week at a government meeting of key investors for Ukraine who can come along with money and open up to these investors, I'm sorry, manually and there will be no investors who will be excluded from the list, because they're somewhere, something they haven't taken on time. Each investor will be fully provided from the point of view of power by all the green streets, the green procedures, and the discovery of all roads. Now to say what an investor in Ukraine is facing is to spend 30 minutes just counting what are the obstacles today for every investor that comes with money in Ukraine. I think we need to make a good policy change here and, in general, our concept with you at an anti-crisis time when Ukraine's budget will be in a very difficult situation when the financial system in a difficult situation is involving investors with capital, here's the concept: roads, subways, electricity, energy, energy conservation, infrastructure commercial, all that can today give money to the economy, and every investor has to find in Ukraine their homeland. Measures to be taken to organize land relations are clearly listed in the program. I think what we need to talk about right now is real infrastructure projects, and here I would like to focus on that. The government in this program, which we've just handed over to you in Parliament, has made the entire list of infrastructure projects clear for every sector and sector, where there is a technical economic justification, where there are deadlines and all the reasons for how we're going to build and how we're going to build and what's the main thing, there are already sources for 2009 in the amount that allow us to start and we're going to increase. With regard to questions related to infrastructure projects, for example, we will start with key hydroelectrics. These are projects related to the construction of the Dniestrów Hydroelectric Station, which are objects related to the creation of our own nuclear fuel cycle, these are objects that accompany the introduction of new electricity lines today, which allow us to reconstruct and modernize thermal power plants. For the main investment projects in Euro-2012. These are individual projects that both have investors and sources of budget funding and plus their clear absolute recalculation. I'd like you to take a look at the Government's Infrastructural Projects. And if you have proposals from investors, proposals from world financial organizations, from countries, we are very happy to see at the level of government each of your projects take and make it an integral programme of anti-crisis government activity. And in addition, all the social costs that are in the budget today, and they once again, I want to say, are created so that no person will suffer in terms of wages, pensions, benefits. At the same time, we focused on development costs. I want to tell you that today all countries of the world are planning, without exception, on the basis of recession, the deficits of the budget. And I would like you to show 49 slides -- this is about the European Union Treaty in Article 104 -- the so-called Maastricht Treaty. It foresees the most optimal level of budget deficit for the countries of the European Union for the following year. I ask you to show what budget deficits the countries of the world are planning to make it possible to plan development costs. You see Hungary -- 2.6; we're proposing a deficit in the budget -- 2.96; Germany has planned -- 3; the United States has more than three; the countries of Latvia are 4 and so on and so forth. I don't want to show you any more dozens of slides that say that no country in the world has gone out with a zero deficit. All come out three or more, or about three from the point of view is 2.5-2.9. So our budget proposal for stimulating investment activities and infrastructure investment projects, the supply of the entire budget deficit, almost a hundred percent of the volume, to send to the stabilisation fund. They finance key sectors directly by item, as budgeted, for example, the implementation of the national target programme for the preparation of the Euro 4 billion 354 million, the cost of loans, the financing of investment projects from the construction and technological resupply of energy and carbon-carbon enterprises, is 5.5 billion dollars. These are the infrastructure projects I was telling you about. The purchase and upgrading of military and special technology equipment is the money that will flow into the machinery companies of Ukraine, into the defence complex, and will supply orders throughout the metallurgy chain and for other enterprises operating in this technological relationship, 3 billion 900 million. Borrowing, financing investment projects in the agrarian sector, 2.2 billion. The increase in the statutory funds of state banks and I ask you to pay attention to this, this is a completely separate project, the two state banks “Savebink” and “Ukreximbank”, if we increase their total capital by 3 billion dollars, this allows us to invest ten times in these banks as long-term loans to finance construction. And so everything related to mortgage lending, everything related to building support, everything related to the creation of special state reserves of fuel, coal, nuclear fuel, will be financed through two state banks, through loans that will be provided by increasing the capital of the two banks. This is the only way out of three billion you can make thirty. And by the end of this year, we're going to have to capitalize on two state banks and try to recapitalize them on the resources I told you about. I mean, what do I want to say? Each country of the world must have its own source of economic recovery. Our source, unfortunately not taxes, will be completely limited today, only to social needs. Unfortunately, our source is small gold reserves, so in 17 years Ukraine has not collected them in this amount. It's not reserve funds that we don't have, it's the only way to substantially increase the capital of our national state banks. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we will be implementing special investment projects in housing and utilities for up to half a billion dollars. Nevertheless, despite the enormously complex budget, we offered money for socio-economic development projects in the region at a level of 500 million and also a large number of projects. I can say that all of our numbers in the budget are certainly quite difficult. We cancelled and cancelled up to 25 percent of all administrative expenses. And that's why when you see that there's a reduction in expenditure on the power system: government, the President's Office, the Supreme Council, the courts, the prosecutions, the BSS, I'm not going to count, but 25 percent, that's evidence that we're going to cancel out with what we can cut. We've cleaned up all the specific and unwarranted programs, and we've done everything we can to make the regional budgets in this difficult situation stable. And I'm asking you very much to support that package of laws that allows you to balance the budget, and to balance the budget we can now only do so in the only way, there are special taxes that can be collected at the local level. What kind of taxes is that? The property tax is a real estate tax, where we don't offer to tax any real estate stock, any office, nothing but housing that has more than 150 square meters and houses, houses that have more than 300 square meters. But each regional community will be able to allocate such objects for itself, to determine how this will be taxed, and to fill a partial budget at the expense of these incomes, if you adopt the law. As far as road construction is concerned, it is about increasing the excise duty on oil products. Dear friends, there are oil prices in the sweat markets today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u3	Julia Volodymyrna, how much time does it take to give?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u4	Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u6	It costs $25 per barrel in spot markets, and it certainly costs a little more on the stock markets. But at the same time, absolutely inadequate prices today stand on Ukraine’s monopolistic oil market. Therefore, the introduction of excise duty would not lead to a price increase, but would lead to a normal system of profits in this sector. Because there's actually a monopoly income situation there today. And all the money that's going to be budgeted for this excise is going to be focused exclusively on road construction. I would like you and I to set two goals for the 2009 budget: first, development expenditure -- as much as we can and support the real economy and second -- is the stability of the social programs that are in the budget. It is not possible to increase, unfortunately, that we cannot place emphasis on this today. But conservation, a reasonable approach to it, is today the plan, of course, of our activities. I thank you very much for your attention, and I am ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u7	Please. Dear colleagues, the report is complete, I ask you to sign up for the question. Ten minutes. On the board, please show your names. Sergey Headate, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u8	I asked to pass on the word to Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u9	The Turmanov People's Deputy. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u10	Dear Julia Vladimirovn, we have heard your information. I don't know where you got that coal budget. You've previously submitted such a budget. Today, 5 billion 116 million, of which 4 billion are 75 million, is the Pension Fund you have invested in the industry's budget. What's left? One and a half billion. No money for development, no technical re-arms, no capital construction. Where's the coal coming from? Seven hundred and fifty million were bets. This year we had a budget of 4.7 billion. We can't pay today. Today, 850 million wages. And what did you say today, before that, the prestige of mining work, is that what the miners are saying all the time, and what's really going on here? It's just you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u11	Well, first of all, I have great respect for you, Mr. Turmanov, and I would like you not to use such words in a normal public discussion “if anyone has come to mind”. I would just like to ask you to study the budget more carefully. Today, when you called the figure, you missed a number that's referring to the coal sector in addition to the budget deficit that we sent to the industry's stability fund, plus five billion. Please raise your budget, and if you speak respectfully to you, take a look, and you will see that even more money is being spent today. Besides, I'd like to ask you a question. There were privatized mines under your authority, and today people's wages are not paid on privatized mines. And you know why it doesn't pay? Because these mines were sold to metallurgical companies that today, due to the fall in the metal industry, don't need coke coal, and they're forcing coal miners to dump coke coal today, unload it on the ground, because the money is in their offshores.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u12	Sergei Greenewecki. Please complete the answer to your questions. Let's make a deal, a minute to ask, a minute to answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u13	I ask you to ring the bell when you finish so you don't rip it off in half. So what I'm saying is that this question about wages is that you have to go to the owners of metallurgical enterprises and mine owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u15	And we'll do whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u16	Sergei Greenewecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u17	Thank you. Sergey Greenewecki, Lithuanian Block faction. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, it is quite obvious that the budgetary process is an even distribution of disappointments, especially in the face of a financial crisis. But it's also quite obvious that a more substantive conversation can only be after the committee budget is processed at a more professional level. I have more requests for you than questions. By your order of April 2, 566, the entire property complex of the Opera and Ballet Theatre, national, Odessa, has been transferred to state property. And you have commissioned the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance to provide for funding as national theaters. [[Your answer I have]] We can't have national theaters in the first and second categories, I'd like to take that into account when we're working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u18	I thank you for your understanding, because when there is a crisis in the country, total income and budget expenditure is enough to cover pensions, wages, medicines, food and so on. We took a step so that the budget deficit would not go to eat, but rather to go to economic development. And I can now go to all the deputies, to all the factions, with one suggestion: the government's task is to count objective revenue, we've created a base for you to properly allocate expenses. And so at the level of the budget committee, at the level of each profile committee, you can determine where you see the expenses you need to take and where you want to send them. And that's why I'd like to ask that the income part be seen as a constant, because no matter how much we raise it, there's just not going to be this huge part of the income, and there's not going to be any expense to your judgment. The only thing is not to get pensions, wages, benefits, what people need. The other is for you. As the Parliamentary Corps will do, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u19	Vassil Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u20	I'd like to give Vaszczuk to Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u21	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u22	Dear Julia Volodymyr, we've seen what we've got, the budget. It's too bad it's such a tough year. And I want you to pay attention with the Ministry of Finance, and we're going to ask ourselves on the committee what a stable increase this year, as in the past, the agrarian sector, but on one condition: there's a very large reduction in expenditure -- 11 billion to four. Including, by credit resources, only 300 million. Considering that a lot of people can't repay loans and they're going to need to be prolonged, and in order to sow, take new ones, it's going to be the most painful topic in the APC for this year. That's why we need to talk about this together.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u23	Katerina Timofievna, I thank you for saying so softly in the agricultural sector, because, in fact, we were able to raise spending on the agricultural sector by 40 percent this year, including, for the first time, to fill the agrarian fund with 2 billion and 250 million. For the first time in all years! But today, when you count the costs of the agrarian fund and the expenses of the agrarian sector, note a separate article that distributes the stabilisation fund. There's an additional 2.2 billion going to the agrarian sector just for loans, for all the other expenses. And I can tell you again that all the money that's in the budget right now, you can redirect it to the top priority. I ask you to keep in mind every expense line the text article on the distribution of the stabilisation fund. Only for developmental expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u24	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u25	Dear Julia Volodymyrna! Of course, it's a financial tornado that forces Ukraine, we can't hide from it, we can't sit in the bushes. Because of this, obviously, it would be good to start with the people's deputies and, first of all, give up the feudal benefits that national MPs have to pay, I'm convinced that we're going to do it in one piece. I want to ask you a permit, a public permit, we understand very well that today is not fat, and that what is circumcised for culture today is what we in our committee understand very well. However, we also understand that although we have not avoided certain stereotypes, there are certain Vipovian, so to speak, objects in culture, there is an institution that increases the qualifications that I think only has the qualifications of directors and teachers. Do you allow us, together with the minister and with the ministry, within the limits of the funds that are to be redistributed by agriculture, and in this way we will survive next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u26	I think it's the only possible, it's a profile committee, along with a minister at every budget line, and redistribute it as best you can. In addition, I would like to point out that the development costs of the stable fund do not allocate 885 million dollars that can be directed towards those development costs, including cultural support, including the opera theater that Mr. Greenewecki has just raised. I think there's work to be done here, so just go to it objectively, objectively, and justly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u27	National MP Danilenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u29	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u30	Dear Julia Volodymyrna! The faction of the Company is now receiving a lot of letters from specific labor groups. One of them vividly shows the problem. A pompous ferro-nickel combination. There are 1,900 people working. This is a village that practically lives at the expense of this combination. If we stop now, and it's expected that production will stop as of January 1, 1,900 people will be out of work at the employment fund, and 2 million people will have to issue money every month, and social infrastructure is not working, so the city stops. This is how the budget today provides for aid to such enterprises, in terms of reducing the cost of a kilowatt-hour, which is just 1.4 kip or lowering the cost of transporting ore and nickel across Ukraine by 1 ton by 10 grubles. So we leave the manufacturer, we let the labour community live, and we don't lose the social infrastructure. How does the budget provide for such a level of support for businesses?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u31	You know, I totally agree with you that there's not a single recipe for all businesses with their specifics. For example, we took aluminum companies, saw that there was a big pietome of the weight of electricity and made decisions about the cost. Now, at your signal, we're also going to do everything we can to study the situation and try to give a certain reduction in tariffs and costs, just like we did for the metallurgy, just like we did for the chemists. And in general, I'd like all of you to hear right now that the price boom in the markets has fallen so much that all chains, all of the components of self-sustainability, will have to be priced a few steps back, starting with government monopolies and ending with each host subject. Price trends have gone down in the market and we need to raise all the cost components so that our production does not lose its competitiveness in the internal and external markets. And I'd like to ask the deputies, through the committees, directly through the Ministry of Industry, to give us signals where the point of administrative assistance is needed. Unfortunately, without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u32	Let me finish. Everything?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u33	Well, if that's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! The time taken for questioning is exhausted. What, what? Are you ready? Well, make a proposal and we'll vote. Please. Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues, now. Dear colleagues, because we are. Dear colleagues, since the budget is being presented, please now, the budget committee proposed by the procedure. Turn on Mikoli Ivanovich’s Microphone, and then we’ll discuss it from factions. Please, Mikola Ivanovich. Or on the rostrum if you want. Where do you feel better?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u35	Dear People's Deputies, Vladimir Mihajlovich! First of all, I wanted to say the following. If the will of the people's deputies is to take a decision today to take action, then it may be suggested, given the economic, crisis and end of the year, and the beginning of the year should start with a good, bad budget, however, so that the possibility may be proposed: to entrust the budget committee with the Government with a proposal from committees and factions to consider on Wednesday at 3 p.m. If the Committee decides. Then go out Thursday night for the first reading. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that both the Prime Minister and the matter in the budget committee will be present with regard to budgetary balance. If the 17 bills that are proposed for consideration today and they are part of the income base of the budget, one condition is to adopt it as a balanced budget. If those 17 bills do not form an income part of the budget, then, of course, the budget committee may consider and take a decision. I'm short.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for factions. Here comes the recording. It's from the factions. How many minutes from the factions, 3 or 5? Five, please. It's a faction entry. Please. Roman Tkac, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". Paul Zebravsky, please. The next one will be the people's deputy Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Mr. Head, Madam Prime Minister! It's very difficult to talk about the budget that you got an hour or a half to have a professional discussion here, so you can say enough things. Because, in fact, the budget for today is convinced that maybe they were just polished, looked at in the first impressions. But to say that this is a document is hard enough. What Mikola Ivanovich said is that, at present, there is a financial resource in this budget from the 17 laws that we still have to adopt. It's pretty strange to see the front of the cart and the back of the horse. At first, it would be necessary to fill the budget with financial resources and then share this financial resource with the ideologist proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, who is being developed by the Committees, who is working on a budget committee. Today, I think it's just the first act, no more and no less. Which currently appears in 17 bills. I don't think it's gonna be that easy going through the session room. As much as the faction has been discussed today, our colleagues have plenty of comments on these resource bills. There's a note about the resignation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, that's enough for a huge amount of resources. Obviously, I don't think even on the budget committee tomorrow's draft budget law will be effective, because there is, apart from our vote, still the President's signature. And this time is going to take us a little bit longer to realize what the income part of the budget is. So we're actually going to share the skin of an unkilled bear. And today, to talk about a sufficiently serious budget preparation for the first-reading vote on Thursday, I wouldn't want us to be in such a hurry. We need to hurry, we need to adopt the budget, but only after the budget is filled. Today, there is no such thing as an enormous amount of revenue, all of which is laid down in 17 bills. And because of that, I'm not talking about macro indicators that we should have approved. And the increase in GDP, when the decline in many, most countries of the world is there, and today the level of inflation offered by the Cabinet of Ministers is under discussion. We'd have to listen to the National Bank for the next year. It is not clear what the price of gas for the next year will be. And when we talk about subsidies for local housing-communal budgets, we have to understand what the cost of these housing-communal tariffs is going to be. So today, when we talk about a serious review of the Budget Act, we are not prepared to consider the Budget Act not only in Parliament but also in the Budget Committee. I think we're basically going to adopt a law, actually a title -- the Budget Act of Ukraine. Because there are no other reasons to share what we do not already have. And I don't know, maybe we should be working both next week, and Monday, and Tuesday, and Wednesday, by January 1st, if we can adopt financial laws. But just like that, it's wrong, it's unsavory, and I'm convinced that we don't have to do this. I don't share these because it's better to have a bad budget than no budget. I think as soon as we accept the bad budget, we, by the way, took the December-month budget last year and also said that in March-month we would review this budget. But in a year, we haven't looked at it, and again, there was a little bit of brownie and we shared it. I would still like us to take a thorough look at this, look at this bill and work. We'll have to work at night. But let's just do it on a basis that's going to form financial, that is, fiscal laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u38	The Landik People's Dept., faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u39	Please give the word of Ephraim to Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u40	He gives the word “Efraem’s ” to Alexander Sergiyovich. Please. Get ready from the “Julia Tymoshenko Block ” of Borodin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u41	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the Government. You know, I've been listening to Julia Vladimirovna. I have the impression that there are no members of the Government out there, and I don't know what's really going on. And he mentioned just one year ago on the same rostrum of Julia Vladimirovna when she told you that you would approve the budget for at least three months of 2008, and then I would draw you a budget that the whole country would happily cry. But the result is that we have been living for eight months without a budget. And the country is really crying. But he weeps, not for happiness, but for all the other things. Now, with regard to the budget that we received at the beginning of the 25 copies for the 175 persons faction 10 minutes before today's meeting. We can only provide analysis on data that we have previously obtained from various sources. And it is noted that for the first time in years of the independent Ukraine, we have faced the fact that the current power unappellatedly imposes on society the budget for looting and impoverishment of people. The very ideology of the government bill is cynical. Let the poor pay for the rich. The Government of Timoshenko has brought the State to a standstill. He ignored all warnings and protests from the opposition. In fact, even admitting the crisis for three months has spent an empty discussion of memoranda, political disputes, justifications and the search for the guilty, all of this rather than decisive action to overcome the misery that has plagued people. The main anti-crisis document is the draft State budget for the following year, the Government has literally met with haste and haste. That is also what the main macro indicators say. GDP is claimed to be positive 0.4 per cent, inflation is 9.5 per cent, the rate is 7 to 7.5 per cent, and all major experts who estimate these macro indicators say they are unrealistic. The question is, when considering the budget, we do not see where the foreign exchange policy document for 2009. The first-reading anti-crisis programme is just a set of slogans, which is actually accompanied by the government's action for the first time and the result, Julia Vladimirovna, not the graphs you showed, but the reality that by November last year, GDP in Ukraine had dropped by 14.4 per cent, and production had fallen by 28.6 per cent. And if you don't have an analysis, I can give you documents that say that this is the biggest fall among all the countries of the former Soviet Union and Europe, including. As a result of this year's leadership, Ukraine has moved poverty among all countries of the European Union to second place since Moldova, and for three more months you will correct it, and we will take first place in this policy. The Government had pushed the budget up to the last one, had been emerging, had sought a way of not leaving its fingerprints, had transferred responsibility for drafting the budget to Parliament, yes, had written down to the Supreme Council the relevant “spargarillas” which the parliamentarians were supposed to give to the Government. We have literally forced the Government to fulfil its constitutional duty and to submit a draft State budget to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What's the matter with you?? What we see, the apopheus of the generally recognized non-professionalism, illiteracy and helplessness of the Cabinet of Ministers, is not a draft State budget, it is a quick-track deduction based on fictitious macroeconomic indicators. This budget does not solve any of the problems caused by the crisis. On the contrary, it will exacerbate existing ones and give birth to new ones. The faction of the Party of the Regions strongly does not support the 2009 Government Draft Budget, because the Government of Timoshenko proposes: the freezing of minimum wage in the budget area at the level of October 2008, the under-replacement of subsistence and the associated State social standards, in particular the minimum pension. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask that you give as the only opposition faction in Parliament another three minutes. A sharp reduction in benefits. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're afraid of the truth, and that's what you're saying, with your government, with your speaker, you're afraid of the truth. Extreme, underestimation of subsistence and related State social standards, in particular the minimum age, social assistance pension, including families with children, children with disabilities, unemployment, scholarships and other social benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u42	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u43	A sharp reduction in benefits, guarantees, compensation, State aid to the poor, cancellation of pensions for salary growth in the previous year. The right of the Cabinet of Ministers to review, arbitrarily and arbitrarily, the appointment and recalculation of pensions is uncontrollable. Restriction of access to employment, unemployment assistance, forced participation in public works and so on. I understand that you won't give me time, there's a whole list of what you're depriving people and what's in our Constitution can't be changed in the State. The listing of such absurd anti-national norms could continue for a long time and would take up as much space as the budget allocated to social expenditures. The Government is trying to cut everything, not on the basis of common sense and the need for people, but on the commitments made by Timoshenko in response to the International Monetary Fund's loan. The Government is not in a position to respond with clarity to the main issues of concern to the people. How can jobs and wages be maintained? How can the income of citizens that at least cover the unrestrained rise in prices and tariffs be increased? How can people be compensated for the loss of valuable savings? How to pay pensions that at least exceed the subsistence minimum? What's the dollar's rate? How much will the country pay for the import gas?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u44	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote who is in favour of continuing the right to speak, please vote. For - 199. The decision is not taken. The national MP, Borodin, is transferring the right to speak to John Kirilenko. I'm asking you, your honor, what I did wrong is what's on the board. I'm asking you, Your Honor, I ask you once again, let's all calm down together, I'd just like to hope if you're in power or if you're going to be able to speak to anyone, so calm down. And I'm asking the secretariat to make sure that there were enough votes to continue. Please calm down. The word is John Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, I'm surprised at what's going on. In the towers at the level of faction leaders, at the level of former government officials, they walk, hug us in a vest, cry and pray to God that they did not have a cup of soybeans, go out to the rostrum and worship us so, dear friends of conscience. You know, on this very hill of this skinny woman, there's this crisis, and you're going to have a green road for 2010, you'd be with you right now. Dear friends, listen, please take off the charges of an untimely budget. On September 15, he was in the hall, and today, when the National Bank plays the exchange rate difference of 10 percent of the national currency that the budget can be calculated. Next, when you say that the crisis is just us and you're proving from the rostrum, dear friends, if only we had, why your metallurgical enterprises today, private in your hands, sell a third of their product for export, two thirds couldn't sell, and what they sell is twice as cheap. If only everything was okay. These are your privates, colleagues. Please don't get excited. Next. Eight years later, the budget was adopted as a special procedure. You will refer to the missed year as from the rostrum on the last day of the previous year, with this in the hall: “Let’s send you”. And that's how I took the budget. And the amendments to this budget are up to 60 laws. Today, the government has put forward a separate bill, a separate budget. Yeah, he's unpopular today, we understand that. So what's the deal? We're going to keep blocking, we're going to be pandering to the fact that, please, let's not accept, let's go 1/12. 1/12 2008, 1/12 2009 are different things, colleagues. This is going to be a blow to the pensioners, to the budget, to all unprotected levels. Next. Everyone's worried that there's not enough to develop. You and I have passed five antichrist laws. Today we received an agrarian. The price of the issue -- VAT is a special regime, 7 billion for the budget minus, VAT for the livestock that's still going plus -- 4 billion minus, and what we've done with the bank loans for the budget is another 4 billion for the budget minus. One law saved the agrarians 15 billion. Imagine, this year this benefit ended, the following year it was all in the budget. What would happen to the village? Or let's predict it in the budget, is it going to go a little bit? And we have already passed such laws with you eight and five more. And that's all the cost of a question for the industries, for the people's agriculture, for the individual, including the types of population, and for the jobs. So we're still going to worship? And the last. We're still proposing this year's budget, because it's not that much of a budget, we understand it, not fat, it's a social protection budget. And for that, let's work in the hall as much as we need. But the New Year calls for budget and social protection for at least 20 million budgeters and socially vulnerable ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u46	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Prepare Baran.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u47	The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, I think everyone in this room understands why the government, more than a month ago, recalled the previous version of the State Budget project, only brought it today, why we have this government so timid. Three times in terms of macroeconomic indicators, they were unable to confirm them, but now it is absolutely clear that not only is Ukraine’s State budget now included in the session room, with a solid range of people’s fates behind each of them, not only the government’s programme of activities, but also two dozen of the most important documents. Obviously, the government is hoping that the MPs won't deal with all of this, so I want to assure the government officials, don't expect, we'll figure it out and we'll figure it out in just a few minutes. All the inadequacy, all the poverty of this document, I want to illustrate on a few social indicators. And so in that State Budget project, which was submitted on September 15, 2008, the minimum wage of January 1, 2009 was planned to be 770. What is proposed today? Six hundred and five, of course, have made great progress. Second rate, so-called, guaranteed a minimum of living. Well, obviously, the guaranteed here has to be taken into very large quotes. How it is set for a month. And now I call the numbers 133 bracelets, 187 bracelets and 200 bracelets for the disabled. Dear colleagues, it is not possible to live on such sums that a month can't last a week. And this is what we consider to be a major social achievement. The third indicator, the once-in-a-lifetime aid to war veterans by May 9, is given in the same amount as the last two years. But respectable colleagues, given the inflation rate of less than 25 percent, that means that there are no 1 in 4 bracelets in that amount. So it's not 400 million dollars anymore, it's 300. This is also a big social advance. It should be said that today the most disadvantaged part of the veteranism, including the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, today suffer from inflation as the greatest disaster. I want to say that, despite my previous assurances, and the government has given them over and over again, this State Budget project does not provide for the improvement of the average wage for the recalculation of pensions for pensioners, veterans and disabled persons. This is not foreseen, but it should be borne in mind that the inflation rate will already be extremely high this year and no less so in the following year. It should be said that these approaches are also based on indicators that refer to some other aspects of social security. So, dear colleagues, I would like to say that the document presented today should be the subject of a very substantial processing by the professional committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I very much hope that in the way that it is presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, this document has no right to exist and cannot be supported in this room. And in general, when we talk about that this year's budget is going to be special next year, it has to meet the challenges that the global economic crisis has expressed, it's not in any way different from those previous budgets, and so let's say it meets the status of the year's budget, which is marked by the economic and financial crisis, it can't. So, dear colleagues, this document can.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u48	Yes, thank you. Baranov Valerius, Lithuanian Block faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u49	Dear colleagues! I think everyone will agree that our budget is bad, but we understand very well that it will be equal to how much money we've made with you, and I'll say more, how much have we earned since 1991, when everyone was in power, and none of those who blame each other here today have done systemic reform or changed those square wheels in our body on the round, which is why we came. And this needs to be shared among all those who are sitting here and on this side. Therefore, this crisis will force us all together, the deputies and the Government, to undertake systemic reforms without which we were 135 places in the world of investment attractiveness, and we will probably be lower. And there's a plus, paradoxically speaking, that's what we're going through. We must realize that without administrative reform, decentralization of power, decentralization of finance, the introduction of self-government, health reforms and the JCC in our country, nothing will be expected of our inhabitants and voters. It is therefore likely that next year's budget, and it will have to set priorities, and the priorities, above all, are the salaries of the budget, the energy carriers, the social programmes, the pensions and the priorities that we will have to deal with with with you. I want a few words on my favorite subject: housing and utilities. You know, this industry is driven, destroyed, it's driven and destroyed by the State, its populism, its promised benefits unfunded and so on. But that's not what this is about. Last year, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, the JCC received four billion, three times less this year, and a zero is planned next year. And that's wrong, Julia Vladimirovna. I think you should get into this more seriously. We found money for the village, for the miners, it's beautiful. Well, what about housing and utilities? We forgot Alchevsk. We do not understand the state of our boiler nets and where we are going with this sector of the population. I believe that it is imperative that resources be made available for the State energy savings programme and that it will enable us to save resources from the State budget to budgetary schools, gardens, hospitals and so on. And how to do that, we know. There is a line of “25 million for the sale of loans”, Julia Vladimirovna, please increase from 25 to 50, at least. Indeed, we will be able to attract at least 10-20 bracelets of money from international financial organizations for each bracelet and invest in that necessary industry. So each bracelet here gives you 10. I, speaking at your meeting, asked you to allocate only $2 million for the preparation of 350 investment programmes that would enable you to attract at least 10 billion. You've made an order. Viktor Mihajlovich, we have Pinzenyk himself who decided that your commission is not to be carried out. I mean it in principle, and it's wrong at the root. Further, last year, the Association of Cities met last week, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin attended. We discussed the situation we had. And I would ask the Government to know that the association has considered transfers to local budgets to be at least 15-20 per cent low. If you do not recalculate them, local budgets, teachers and doctors will not receive wages and money. But at the same time, the Association of Cities is addressing you and the Government, and you, Julia Vladimirovna, and the opposition, that understanding the difficult situation in the country today needs to adopt this budget, and that it has to be redesigned in a creative way before the New Year, because the territorial communities and the people working on the ground will be in greater trouble if we do not accept it and settle political debates and battalions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, consideration of the submission of Ukraine's 2009 State Budget has been completed. Julia Volodymyrna, do you have any final words? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u51	I can literally say two words. Well, first of all, I want to thank all the deputies and factions who have made a constructive statement, understanding that leaving the country for 2009, the year of the biggest budget crisis, means giving the world's rating agencies a few more points to take down the ratings of Ukraine, every bank, every enterprise and to close the road to the world's credit resources. Yes, the budget for such a colossal crisis will not be ideal and everyone understands it, but for that, the common intellectual potential of the Supreme Council, so that we can have the opportunity of giving the country a budget of these incomes, which is the chance next year. And I'm going to the opposition government, if there are intellectual developments, and not just such harsh criticisms, we're willing to cooperate and we're ready to find a perfectly normal understanding. I thank you for your willingness to do this work today. And I am convinced that Ukraine's budget will be much stronger than those statements that are destructive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u52	Please, I ask you to calm down, but Alexander Efraemov will be given the floor to finish the Prime Minister and we will act together. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's work properly, don't get me out of balance. It's gonna be okay. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u53	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Julia Vladimirovna! In response to your request, I would just like to clarify to which opposition government you are addressing, because a few days ago you stated that you are also in opposition. So if we can figure out where we have power, we'll be fine in the country right now. And that's how we get the opposition here, and you have the opposition, the only thing, but no authority, and the people are abandoned on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u54	Dear National Deputies! It's very obvious that we're finalizing the question, let me finish the consideration of the issue. It's pretty obvious. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down, we agreed on the matter and the procedure, we agreed on it. Dear colleagues! Please. Please, please, give me a chance! We're going to consider the budget, there's going to be an opposition government. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? You know, by September 15th. We don't vote! What procedures?Oh, my God! We don't vote! Dear colleagues! By September 15, according to all laws, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is due to receive a budget. You know the Supreme Council got the budget. In view of the change in the situation and in connection with the adopted Law against the World Financial Crisis, the bill was returned to the Cabinet of Ministers to work on the realities that are being drawn up. Dear colleagues! You know very well that all the laws that fill the income part of the budget according to the requirements we would have by August 15th. You understand perfectly that all the lines are broken, the responsibility lies, directly and clearly, with the Supreme Council and its government. So let's either talk about the charges now, or in this situation, let's define the approaches that would allow us to prepare the budget and determine how to adopt the budget. That is why there is such an offer. Given that the deadlines are broken, we need to take a special procedure, one way or another. Today we heard a budget presentation. If there was a draft decision, or a proposal, whether it was from factions or from committees to reject the bill, we would consider it. Since no offer has been made, the Supreme Council accepts the introduction of the work. And that's why we'd have to do it this way. Invite factions and committees to submit their reasoned proposals to the Committee on Budget Affairs, say tomorrow at 12 o'clock, at 3 p.m. Dear colleagues! There'll be another offer, we'll consider other proposals. The committee should start its meeting, work on it, and we should consider the proposals that will be worked out. If we can't come to an acceptable decision, then we'll either decide whether to continue our work in plenary mode or act in another way. Well, there are no other possibilities, and you understand that very well. Or a budget will not be adopted at all if the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not taken accordingly. We just don't have any other options for maneuvering. So once again, I want to repeat the offer. In view of the fact that no decision has been made regarding the rejection of the bill in the event of its inadequacy. That's the first one. Second, invite committees and factions to submit their proposals to the committee by 12 o'clock tomorrow. The committee will start its work at 3 p.m. so that we can decide on Thursday on the adoption or non-admission of the first reading and in accordance with the proposals for further action of our draft basic law. And in the meantime, we'd have to look clearly at the proposals that came from the office to fill the income part of the budget. There's just no other offer. Please, that's the offer. Five minutes. Sign up. Well, I said, sign up, five minutes, please. Please sign in. Please. Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u55	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, there's obviously a part of the hall that's getting worse, the better, so there's going to be suggestions to drag it, stretch it, drag it to nowhere. At the same time, citizens and sober people in this room understand that we can't start a new year without a budget, because no pensioner will get a pension, all social programs will just be blocked, so the proposal made today by the head of the budget committee, Vladimir Mikhajlovich Litwin, for us to take up this budget today, tomorrow by 12 a.m. let all factions, as well as committees of our own proposals, and we've been working on it before, we're going to the budget committee at 15 a.m. tomorrow and we're going to work on it as fast as possible to work out these problems, so that tomorrow morning at the first reading session, we're going to review the budget and continue working on it. So this is the only way, we don't have a spare time. Let's take that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u56	Please, Gordijenko, microphone, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u57	Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I would like to address both the committee and the government today so that we can seriously review the chapters relating to the local budgets. In particular, I would like to address you, Julia Volodymyrna, in part: No one has been financed for a year from the expenses associated with delegated authority, what is delegated by the authorities themselves to the local authorities. They have never been financed or funded. If this is not reviewed in terms of local budgets -- and the main issues of our people are solved -- then the faction of the Ukrainian Company will probably have no idea of voting for this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u58	Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u59	Please pass the word to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have a huge request from our colleagues. We're having a discussion here. We don't afford to be rude. Therefore, some of the people’s deputies who allow themselves to express themselves in a destructive way are uncultured and immoral. Now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, what you're talking about. You're wrong to say there's no proposal. My statement, including the faction of our faction, made it clear that it was impossible to continue working with such materials. You must therefore put to the vote whether the Supreme Council accepts the budget. And we will see who wants to take responsibility for the total destruction of the social guarantees that we have in the State. And I'd like to follow this procedure. And the last. It's like we're discussing a basic state document, a basic law, and you're not even letting the people's deputies say a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u61	Paul Zebravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u62	I think the Supreme Council should be involved in the review of the Budget Act. However, on Wednesday on the budget committee to consider the Budget Act, without having sufficient, once again, income base, to talk about some serious consideration of the Budget Act is not necessary. I am convinced that we have to start today, not to urge each other, not to make calls that are more loving to the people of Ukraine and Ukraine, but to do the things that are needed. First of all, adopt 17 bills, determine what resource base we're going to have. After that, we should seriously consider the Law on Budgets. I don't think we need to send the Budget Act to Kabmin, because that's how we're supposed to be accused of not working on the Budget Act. I'm convinced that there are enough intellectual skills in the people's deputies to take it seriously and to make it clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u63	Please, National MP Movchan, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”. Shut up, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u64	Thank you. Paul Mokchan, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government! Undoubtedly, that thought, which has just been formulated by my colleague Paul Zebrovsky, that we have sufficient intellectual resources to support your idea at the most intense, shortest time, so that we can work out this budget and this document so that tomorrow in the second half we can already express the thoughts of all the committees that would be working on this document in the morning. This, I think, is the best form to finally approve what the head of the budget committee suggested on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u65	Thank you. Who else do we have? Peter Simonenko, please. Aren't you going to perform? I'm looking at the red light. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u66	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, speaking of how we, in what conditions we accept the budget, I would like to draw attention to what we will do in principle, both in this budget and in the coming years, in what we do when we prepare the budget. The crisis requires us to adopt laws urgently today to regulate the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine. In this case, the State budget, which should be based on production and the same income as the value added tax, is a real economy. Unfortunately, there is no such cooperation today. When it comes to taxes, it is necessary to make decisions and cancel the value added tax, and to introduce a turnover tax that will allow today to actually force all the authorities to do so. Third. What I was talking about this morning. We need to urgently, urgently make a decision and order in a crisis all the power lines, especially the government, directly to the Cabinet of Ministers. There can be no other way today, because unfortunately, there are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, we exchanged. Well, please, we've had our share of thoughts. Dear colleagues, this is where it sounded. I'm asking for your attention. Dear colleagues, we must now make a responsible decision. That's why I'm asking for your attention. There were diametrically opposite thoughts. First. The fact that all the terms of consideration and adoption of the budget have been violated and the laws necessary to fill the income part of the budget have been adopted. In fact, the Supreme Council of Ukraine today faces the need to work with wheels in order to accept the budget. We don't have any differences in what we need or whether we don't have to take the budget. The only problem is that we don't have enough time. So given that we started looking at the budget today, and some of the deputies didn't get to know it, and part of the factions, I mean, the representatives of the Party of the Regions were talking about the decision to reject it. I, my dear colleagues, well, you say everything right, it will be put to the vote. But the second is a proposal, which is also a two-proposal that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts a bill, factions and committees should consider it, make their proposals to be accumulated, taking into account the lack of time for the committee to consider them tomorrow, and on Thursday the Supreme Council of Ukraine began to consider the issue of budget adoption. If we have problems, then we'll make a decision when we make the final version of the document, the main economic document. But for there to be no mutual accusations, and we're all backing out of the Rules here, so I'm going to make the first proposal that you haven't been able to formulate in writing, the deviation of the draft budget and the referral to the government. Please decide how to vote. Please make up your mind. For - 198. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues! By factions, please, the Party of the Regions – 169, Block of Timoshenko – 0, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 5, Communist faction – 24, Block of Lithuania – 0. So once again, I repeat the second proposal, fellow honourable Members, because the budget, the draft budget, was adopted before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and given that any deadlines have been violated, we need to determine the procedure. It is suggested that committees and factions submit their proposals to the budget committee by 12 p.m., and the budget committee at 15 p.m. will traditionally start meetings and work until the relevant documents are drawn up. On Thursday and Wednesday, and Thursday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working to review those bills that the government is proposing and, to the extent they are adopted or rejected, appropriate adjustments are made to the income part of the budget and with appropriate redistribution. That's the right offer, isn't it? We agreed, then there is no need to vote on what we will vote on. Dear colleagues, we have accepted and we are working, there will be no vote, because we will not replace the law. Please. Consider the following questions. It's not manipulation. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Since no decision has been taken, the Supreme Council has begun to consider - there is no manipulation. Question completed. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! We continue our work for 15 minutes. We agreed here with the faction, part of the faction represented by Alexander Alexander Omelchenko, that the next one would be the draft Law on Associations of Local Self-Government Authorities. There have been some differences here. That is why this law is being declared for consideration. We decided to consider it as a reduced procedure today. Please. The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat, Ms. Ivanovna Stavniychuk. The focal point will be Troiduk Mikola Fedorovich, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. After that, we will continue to consider draft laws that relate to the filling of the income section.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u68	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine and present at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! According to the European Charter of Local Self - Government, local authorities have the right to unify to perform tasks of social interest. Despite the fact that article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine provides that local self-government authorities have the right to more effectively exercise their powers of protection of the rights and interests of the territorial communities to unite in appropriate associations and unifications so far, the issue has not been settled in the current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u69	I'm sorry, I'm speaking to my fellow national MPs, and I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. There is no solution to the question of how local authorities, local governments, can form and operate associations. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that in most European nations, the issue of the merger of local governments, including their relationship with government authorities, is regulated at the legislative level. At the same time, the relevance of these issues in Ukraine and Ukraine shows that there are still quite a number of associations of local self - government in Ukraine. Let me point out that this bill by the President of Ukraine is being submitted to the Supreme Council of the Association of Ukrainian Cities and Communities. The bill is largely supported by the leaders of the local government’s representative bodies. Today, this bill is aimed at the practical provision of article 7 of part four of article 142 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The project is intended to determine the order of association, rights and duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u71	Let me finish. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u72	Deal with the issue of the interaction of public authorities with associations. The quantification of this law, I conclude my statement, I want to draw your attention, is that the appropriate associations of local self-government bodies are given the right to initiate and consult, first of all, with the government, with the President, with the Supreme Council on the adoption of the State Budget and the financing of the respective territorial communities throughout a number of articles of the State Budget of Ukraine. This is an extremely important and vital bill for Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u73	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. Thank you, sit down, please. Mikola Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u74	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting held on June 4, 2008, reviewed the draft law of Ukraine on the Association of Local Self-Government Authorities, introduced by the President of Ukraine. According to part of article 15 of Ukraine’s law on Ukraine’s local self - government, local self - government authorities with a view to a more effective exercise, protection of the rights and interests of local communities can be integrated into associations and other forms of voluntary associations that are subject to registration in accordance with the laws of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The Committee notes that the bill provides for the establishment and termination of the association bodies. The rights and responsibilities of such associations are to address the interaction of associations with government authorities and local governments. Local associations under the project are formed to coordinate efforts within local self-government bodies in one or more regions of Ukraine, including the development and implementation of individual projects and socio-economic and cultural development programmes of the territorial communities. The project also provides for the legal basis for consultations of associations with executive authorities on issues, such as the preparation of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the year in question. The Associations propose to strengthen the right to initiate consultations with the President of Ukraine and the Committees, temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council on issues relating to local and regional interests. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports and considers that the first reading of the bill can be based on the need for the adoption of this law. The Committee agrees with this conclusion and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on associations to be adopted as a basis. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two-for-two-again. Please sign in. If we don't, we'll vote, but they say we do. On the board, please. John the Rabbit. Prepare Valery Baranov. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u76	John Haretz, Ukrainian People's Party, faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Dear national deputies, it is clear that the issue of self - government today is a priority for our activity. And it's clear that self-government should somehow be organized and we've been seeing the process of self-organization for many, many years. We have a lot of experience with this process being regulated at the legislative level. So it seems to me that there is no basis today for not supporting this bill in the first reading, in order to finally address the problem of the legislative settlement of these associations, these associations. I think a whole series will be open during the first reading work to improve this bill. And it's clear that we shouldn't stop this process. And so my position is to work on it in the first reading, and in the second reading, to work on it. There is very little time to deal specifically with the shortcomings of this bill, and there are many of these shortcomings. So I think we're going to take it on the first reading, and we're going to work on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u77	Valerius Baranov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, I do not think that the history of Ukraine knows presidents, Governments and deputies who would oppose the development of local self-government. We all went with these slogans here, to the Supreme Council. Our trouble is, therefore, that everyone who is involved in this has done everything to ensure that this local government does not develop but dies. He had money taken downtown, then returned to whoever he asked for, and so on. I wish to address my colleagues, members from the Party of the Regions in particular. As regions are made up of territorial communities, the territorial communities today survive on their own, they also advocate for their own interests. We need to join associations, such as the City Association, the Association of Councils of Our District and Regional Councils. And I ask you, please support this necessary document, which will allow the territorial communities of our country to protect their interests, the interests of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u79	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u80	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u81	Mikola Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the idea of the bill is certainly correct. At the same time, it is clear that without a strong, understandable, responsible system of the local self - government association itself, regional and local self - government will do nothing. So it's obviously a parallel process of building a system of local self-government and associations. Second position. Well, it's clear from the bill that this was written by experts from the Ukrainian City Association. And I don't think we can define right associations and wrong associations in law. The law should have the only procedure for forming these associations. From the very beginning, they should be created by local self - government, having the only principles of formation, the only responsibility. Local officials cannot be associated with local self - government. These must be the public figures who work for this. So, of course, the bill should also remove this rule, which stipulates that we have government officials in the system of public institutions. It is vital that we consider whether we should grant the right to engage in profitable activities. Apparently, they unite the systems of local self - government and are, in a good sense, lobbyist structures, that is, they promote the ideas of territorial communities. There are, say, district councils in their own way, local councils in my own way, so I have doubts as to whether or not to set standards here for the creation of enterprises, there's economic functions and so on. Each institution of local self - government that unites in this structure contributes and works together. And finally. Of course, we need to think about the fact that not only these associations, but once again, local self - government should work. Because today I read about getting into Leonid Cherniwiecki's reception, now I have to pay $100,000. In order to keep in mind that local self - government should be accountable to the law and then to the associations of local self - government. We therefore vote in the first reading and work actively on the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Yatsuba Vladimir Grigorovich, please. I. Oh, I'm sorry, National Deputy Gordienko. We continue our work, the evening session, for 15 minutes. Then we vote from the local self-government of the association.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u84	Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Decades of talk about local self - government did not actually lead to anything. Local self - government in Ukraine has been and remains a local self - rule. I would like to draw the attention of everyone sitting in this room today that there were parliamentary hearings in June 2003 that outlined a number of reasons that prevented us from developing local self-government and outlined the perspective that we would need to work on. But five years had passed, and none of the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings, unfortunately, had been carried out. I would like to say that self-government will never be required to be strong and strong in this state until the land that is in charge of the territorial communities is looted and municipal property is looted. I realize that we need it today, I signed up against it, I asked against it to have a word, but despite everything today, despite all the mistakes of this bill, we have to support it in the first reading and work and give it a chance. If the State does not help local self - government, though the authorities and the territorial communities could unite and defend their rights and rights in each region, each territorial community. The faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote in favour of the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u85	Vladimir Yatsuba, microphone, please, and we will vote. Oh, on the stand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u86	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, respected local self - government workers! I'm sure they're looking at us right after the budget. A little bit of history. There are 17 years of association between city mayors and local self - government. But it exists on the basis of the President's decree, which was signed back in '94. Local self - government and association have become a powerful structure that unfortunately has no law today. For many years, almost 15 years, Alexander Alexanderovich has supported me, local self-government workers and city mayors have fought to write the law and make associations work on the basis of the law, where all the problems that exist today and are at the shoulders of mayors of large and small cities are written. Regrettably, though, it was so that the Supreme Council’s previous appeals did not go through with the adoption of this law. The law passed today by the President and the Secretariat of the President was written by many generations of mayors and local government officials. He certainly has his faults, and these include relations with executive authorities, regulatory flaws. We are familiar with the comments of the Supreme Council Department of Local Self-Government, and we support them. I think when we adopt that second reading, we will correct that law. And I'm authorized by the Supreme Council Committee on Construction and Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Housing to support this law in the first reading, and also by the faction of the regions of Ukraine. Please vote first.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u87	Yes, Your Honor, the bill is closed. The proposal of the committee, which was supported by the National Deputies, is based on the draft Law on Associations of Local Self-Government Authorities, registration number 2477. Please vote. To 411. Decision taken. It would have been in the budget package, it would have been okay. Dear colleagues! We continued our work for 15 minutes, a draft law to amend some of the Ukrainian Act on Excise Congregations is being considered. The reporter is First Deputy Minister Fudashkin Denis Aleksandrovich. And it's written here after 16 hours, dear colleagues, and we're going after 16. We'll be there in 15 minutes. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u88	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The bill proposes that the government regulate the relationship between the increase in excise duty rates on alcoholic beverages and, in due course, alcohol and beer. In fact, during the 2004 period, the actual rate of excise duty in the price of the product decreased, regardless of the increase in the nominal rate. Yes, the share of the excise congregation in vodka was 40 percent in 2004, now 29 percent. A corresponding decline took place in the excise congregation and in the price of beer. So in 2004, the share of excise duty was 8 percent now 5.9 percent. This bill proposes to raise the excise duty rate on vodka from 21.5 bracelets to 27 in the first half of 2009 and 34 in the second half of 2009. And the corresponding increase in beer, up to 31 kips in the first half and up to 39 kp in one liter in the second half. In comparison with the Russian Federation, the price of excise duty on alcohol is 49 dollars, and in Belarus it is 43. For beer, respectively, 79 copies in the Russian Federation, 51 in Belarus. Also, the bill proposes a very substantial reduction in salary for a fragmented licence, allowing for a reduction of the workload of nearly 180,000 subjects. First of all, small business entities, small stores that cannot compete with large shops, because today’s license fee is the same as for a small store that is for a large hypermarket. Additional revenue from this Law will amount to 1.2 billion. That's right. But...
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u89	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u90	The minister's sick. They said that. Yes, from the committee, please. Who will speak from Teryochin’s committee? Please sign up, dear fellows! Two in, two in. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. Unguryan, the faction “Blocca timoshenko” and Koleshnenko will be. Please. Is there a colleague of the Ungurians?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u91	Dear colleagues! Of course, the issue of raising the excise congregation is vital. Last week we voted with you and supported the promotion of the excise congregation on tobacco products. The bill envisions an increase in alcoholic beverages. Of course, under the conditions of increasing dependency, the dependence of Ukrainian citizens, under the condition that Ukraine takes first place in child alcoholism, these issues are very and very important not only in terms of budgeting but also in terms of preserving a healthy Ukrainian nation. So I think that on the first reading, this can certainly be supported. But I think it's a good question of a substantial increase in even these tariffs that are proposed here at the raising of the excise congregation. So I'd like to support that in the first reading, but before the second reading, it's still important to review the rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u92	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u93	The faction of the regions, Vadim Kolisnichenko. Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u94	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I call your attention to the absolute inadequacy of comparing our excise proposed changes to the situation that has taken place in other countries. If it looks like a world financial crisis, we get a 30 percent drop in total production, then I remind you that Belarus has plus 13 at the end of the year, Kyrgyzstan is 12, Azerbaijan is 11, brother Russia is plus 6 percent. So to compare it is not that you can't compare it completely. And one more thing. I have never heard of an alcoholic who quit drinking because vodka has become very expensive. They drink what they drink. And he will never let her drink, for advertising will be banned and so on. But most of all, I'm paying attention to you, dear colleagues, here's what, alcohol-containing drugs, those drugs that have alcohol, they're already galloping and for our old bloodbaths, Barboli is the only drug they carry in their pockets, saving themselves from the high pressure, and from the stress that every day this poor executive branch of power wears on them. This bill can't be adopted without calculations. We're going to get 1.2 billion dollars. How much will we lose?Oh, my God! How many jobs are we going to lose? And how many investors are we going to lose? One. This was the case with tobacco products. Philip Morris invested tens of millions of dollars in the Ukrainian economy, now he's bringing them out, and the vodka in Ukraine, and the beer in Ukraine will be imported from Moldova, from Transnistria, where we now have tobacco products. I think that introducing such drafts will require a detailed calculation so as not to harm people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-23-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, the bill to amend some of Ukraine’s laws on excise matters has been finalized. This is a vote proposal, please prepare for the vote, on the adoption on the basis of draft law of registration number 3078: on amending certain laws of Ukraine on excise matters. Please vote. Based on the base. First reading, yes. To – 217. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 151, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 46, Communist faction – 0, "Litvina Block" – 19. What? Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask you to return to your consideration. Please don't make it, the bill will be removed. Please prepare for the vote. A motion for a return to the draft Law is put to the vote. Registration number 3078. Please vote. Please vote. For 227. May I have your attention, please? We're back to the hearing. A proposal for acceptance is put to the vote as a basis, namely, in the first reading, draft law registration number 3078. Please vote. For 226. Decision taken. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. Thank you.
