ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:01:45]] There are 390 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, today we have December 4th and the birthday of our colleagues: Bondarenko Vladimir Dmitrović, Kovalova Julia Viktorovna and Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich. [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] Please welcome our colleagues. Dear colleagues, you and I had a break that was to be devoted to effective work on the parliamentary committees, and the conclusion of consultations between the parliamentary factions on the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This morning, at nine o’clock in the morning, we held a meeting with the leaders of all parliamentary factions. At this meeting, we were informed that consultations on the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for today have not been completed. The other one. That of the 26 draft laws that were registered a week ago in the Supreme Council for review, only three are now being prepared for possible consideration in the sessional Chamber of Parliament. 12 such draft laws are being prepared after they have been considered by the committees, but the committees have not yet formed them and submitted them for circulation to distribute to the deputies. 11 draft laws are being prepared for consideration by committees that are scheduled for today and tomorrow. This is the real state of things that we have today. I ask once again all the heads of committees and heads of parliamentary factions to organize an effective work of parliamentary committees so that we can get in the session room on time and well prepared projects that can be considered and approved here in the session room of Parliament. Now, about the proposals made by the leaders of the MP factions in order for us to adopt a decision here today, in the session room of Parliament. First. Two factions suggested that we begin our plenary day today with presentations from parliamentary factions, authorized representatives. The second proposal was that we decide today to hold a special session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tuesday to discuss the situation in the country with the invitation of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And the third proposal is that we work on the committees today and tomorrow, and we complete the review of this first anti-crisis package, and the next plenary week, so that we can make the plenary. Here are three suggestions made by the leaders of the parliamentary factions to make sure that the session hall is identified. I am voting on the proposal to move away from the Rules and today to hold statements by authorized representatives from factions in the session room. [[30 minutes]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:05:51]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 39, “Julia Timoshenko Block” – 7, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 2, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20. The second proposal is to hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tuesday to discuss the situation in the country with the invitation of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I ask you to identify the possibility of holding such a meeting. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:06:40]] For 353 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 148, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 146, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 12, Communists – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20. And the final proposal I'm putting to the vote is to change the calendar plan, so that today and Friday the Ukrainian National Deputies will work on the committees and complete the consideration of those projects that will have an impact on the state crisis situation, and to make the next plenary week a plenary. Please be sure. [[10:07:46]] For 303 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 145, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 150, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 8, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 0. At this morning’s plenary session, I declare closed. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday at 10 a.m.
