ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u1	Good day to you all, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! I'm asking you to register. [[10:00:33]] For 392, I'm sorry. 392 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules today, we have an announcement of requests from Ukrainian national deputies, and I will allow myself to announce them. First question. Mikoli Timoshenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resolve the issue of the decommissioning and disintegration of the land of the Bilkovetski council of the village of Bilkovci in the region of Žitomir. Our colleague Valerius Pisarenko's second request to the head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for an improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal regarding the privatization of state property. However, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, is to be dealt with in an improper manner with a petition for violation of the procedure for the privatization of state property. Request from the National Deputy of Ukraine Vasile Wooden to the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for the improper examination by the State Tax Administration in the Ternopil area of parliamentary appeals for the verification of the financial and economic activities of the Society of Individual Instructors “Goodwill” and the Society with limited responsibility “Rovex”. Mikoli Komara to the Head of the State Committee on Water Management for the implementation of a comprehensive programme for the protection of rural settlements and farmland from water damage to 2010 and forecast to 2020. To the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the provision of a school bus to the educational establishment of the city of Djrjinska Donetsk Region according to the program “School Bus”. That request from two national deputies, Paul Movcan and Vladimir MacKeenka, to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the need to preserve the territory of the Conchi-Ssleep in a natural state. Dear National Deputies! I've completed the announcement of requests from Ukrainian national deputies. And I would like to inform you that yesterday, a proposal was made by the Conciliation Board to transfer the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies, which take place every first and third Friday from 13 to 14 hours to the first half of the day, right now. Formation of the order of the performances – 30 minutes, by 3 minutes, can be performed by about 10 Ukrainian national deputies. This was a proposal from the Conciliation Council. Colleagues, please be careful! In order for us not to have any objection to this issue, I would like, colleagues, to vote in favour of the proposal made by the Conciliation Council on the transfer of the speeches of the national deputies to the first half of the day, shortening it to 30 minutes and allowing all three minutes to speak. I'm asking a question for a vote. Please. It's just a technical thing. [[10:03:47]] For - 298 people’s deputies in Ukraine. So we made an organizational decision. I'm asking the Ukrainian National Deputies to sign up for the speech. Colleagues, we're starting speeches by Ukrainian national deputies. Karpuk Vladimir Georgievic, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense Block”. Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. The word is given to Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, speaking from the rostrum. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Boris Tarasyuk, People's Movement of Ukraine, “Our Ukraine” faction, the People's Self-Defense. I have the honour to announce a statement by the faction “Our Ukraine” – People's Self-Defense” concerning the statements made by the official institutions of the Russian Federation. In recent times, statements by official Russian institutions have been published in connection with so - called anti - Russian manifestations in Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to duplicate foreign films in Ukrainian. The harsh, brutal tone of these allegations is false and groundless accusations that are being made in Ukraine. What is Ukraine being accused of. According to the official Moscow, every memorable action in modern Ukraine has to do with unbiased assessments and events of our history, honouring the memory of the dead in the Stalinic regime as a result of artificial famines and political repression, and fighting for the independence of our nation is an expression of anti - Russian and Russianophobia. In fact, Ukraine has been accused of reestablishing historical truth, strengthening the sense of national dignity that has been eradicated for decades of forced destruction, and ensuring the inalienable and natural right to use native language in all spheres of society. It cannot help but be indignant at the efforts of the Russian side to give a trend in and a false assessment of the events that took place in Ukraine during World War II, in particular the activities of the Ukrainian rebel army, whose 65th anniversary was first observed in Ukraine at the state level in October of last year, according to a decree by the President of Ukraine. We find it particularly shameful that the official statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia contains offensive statements at the address of the Hero of Ukraine, Roman Shuhevich, regarding acts of vandalism in relation to the monuments to the Soviet liberators referred to in the Russian declaration, and as has been repeatedly stressed in Ukraine, take a consistent position to condemn any such acts. At the same time, I would like to remind Russia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the barbaric attitude of the local authorities of Russia towards preserving the history of World War II, such as the last year’s dismantling in the submersible city of Apralovka, a monument to the Ukrainian pilot, Lieutenant Vasil Fedorovich Podenka, who died protecting Moscow during the years of World War II and the transfer of the grave and the destruction of the monument to the soldiers of the Great War of the Great Motherland in the Mostrels. We are also concerned about attempts by the Russian Ministry of Justice to question the legitimacy of the Ukrainian Constitution and the world practice of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u3	Thank you. Vaklov Viktor Aleksandrovich, The Yuli Block of Timoshenko. I need to. Vladimir Bondarenko, please. An exit from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u4	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends! The documents of the Supreme Council contain two, two draft regulations relating to the preterm conversion of the mayors of Kharkiv and Kyiv, as well as the Kiev City Council. The point is that we have been quietly observing for quite some time now what is being done in Kiev. Each sessional session of the Kyivrada, which is held practically every week, brings thousands to the hands of private owners, and three thousand acres [3,000 ha] of land in one day. Kiev’s property has been practically solved by an opaque method without auctions, without competitions. The same is true today. The recent decision of Kyivrada practically transferred the Airport “Julians” to private hands. This used to apply to Kiev, the entire Kiev information complex, and so on. These draft regulations provide for the creation of a special commission of inquiry, particularly in Kiev. Unfortunately, so far these projects have not been considered, especially in the regulatory committee. On this issue yesterday, the State Building and Self - Government Committee made a decision and recommended that the Supreme Council consider the matter. If there is a quality of minor inadequacies, we can fix it. But this, the solution, cannot be prolonged. So I would like you, Mr. Arsenia, to give an order to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules of Procedure for the urgent consideration of this matter. Because it's kind of artificially delayed. If we look at Kharkiv today, it is unknown and unclear why Kyiv is not being considered. Today, there is a groundless discussion that there is a frenzy of lobbying in various structures, including the President's administration, in some of the structures of the Supreme Council, so that the issue is not to be taken up in any way. I know that there are certain attorneys in this room of that power who are operating in Kiev today, but, despite this, I would like to say that the cynics, our constituents, our constituents with you all the factions and groups that are in the Supreme Council require that they be given the opportunity to determine once again with the choice of Kiev authority, which has recommended itself as predatory, as one who today is embezzlementing the good of the community, without taking care of its welfare in the future. So once again, I ask you to return to this question. Perhaps on the following Friday, he will be presented to the Supreme Council for consideration in order for us to make the appropriate decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u5	Thank you. Ephremov renders the word “Kysel’s Basil Alexiyovich, ” a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Yesterday is the anniversary of the tragic death of our colleague Kushnarov Evgen Petrovich. I ask you for a moment of silence to honor his memory. Please sit down. Dear compatriots, today in Brussels, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine will place a letter on the table of the Secretary-General of NATO signed by the three highest officials of Ukraine: the President, the Prime Minister and the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Yacinuk are asked to support Ukraine in its quest to join the North Atlantic bloc. I would like to remind those who are accustomed to renegotiating the fact that in the autumn of 2006, Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovic refused to sign such a letter, as he stated at NATO headquarters in Brussels. It is understandable that Yushchenko is seeking to drag Ukraine into NATO by placing in Ukraine an ABM system against Russia, which will finally dissipate us with the Russian Federation. It is understandable whose will Timoshenko is doing by making the first declaration that her Government will take Ukraine to NATO. And all the cancellations since January 1st of this year of our children's further appeal to the emergency service have played a performance that the President has allegedly failed to deliver on that promise. Speaking to the mothers, I want to say what I've already said from this rostrum once. After Ukraine joins NATO, our people will replace American soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan. I would also like to recall that this is not the first attempt without advice from the people and without the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring NATO troops into the territory of Ukraine, as was the case in 2006 in Feodosia. Only when the people rose up and the city and the MPs stood up were they disgracedly expelled from Ukraine. It is no coincidence that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has registered a project to which UN-OPA soldiers are likened to the veterans of the Great Homeland War. I note that there is a deliberate offensive in Russian. Only today did I get information from Crimea that testing is going to be conducted in Ukrainian this year. You can't see that the subject of hatred for Russia is pedaling. The faction of the Party of the Regions strongly states that any action to accede to the NATO action plan is possible only after the holding of the all-Ukrainian referendum, not vice versa. We therefore appeal to the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yatsenyuku, to withdraw the letter he signed in Brussels. And we will do so in all available parliamentary ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u7	Thank you. Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u8	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On January 15th, unfortunately, it was from the press conference and statements by US Senator Lugar that Ukrainian citizens learned that the President, Prime Minister and, unfortunately, the Head of our Supreme Council of Ukraine had signed a letter on behalf of the Secretary-General of NATO concerning Ukraine's desire to join the NATO Action Plan. Now I will not stop at the disgraceful fact that Ukraine has learned about this, not from the official reports of the leaders of the state, but from the statement of the US senator. The fact that the Head of the Supreme Council, on behalf of all of us, has signed this letter with you alone, has no solution to this question. And the attempt to explain such an irresponsible step with reference to the adoption of Decree No 223-4 of 21 November 2002 and the corresponding Article 8 of the National Security Framework Act adopted in 2003 are unfounded and unfounded. This ruling does not refer to NATO at all, please note. This decree refers to Government Day and the minimization of damage to floods and floods. And what's NATO's purpose here and Jaciny's authority to sign this letter? And article 8 of the relevant law, which is so often used by Nazi agitators, speaks of the possibility of joining Euro-Atlantic organizations exclusively in preserving good neighbourly relations and strategic partnerships with the Russian Federation, other SND countries, and other states of the world. And it is now clear that this aspect is impossible, as is the impossible entry into NATO itself. I will not now talk about the numerous statements made by officials of the Russian state, the SND countries and other countries of the world. I would like to remind you once again that Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic openly and sincerely told NATO leadership that Ukraine would not join the DHD, and he refused to sign such a letter. And we have no right to forget that at least 2/3 of Ukrainian citizens are definitely against joining NATO. Honorary colleagues, today the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, acts according to 88 articles of the Constitution and 73 articles of the Rules, which clearly define his authority. Arsenius Petrovich, you have gone beyond your authority. We ask you to withdraw your signature, withdraw your letter. If we don't do this, we're going to need to raise questions about the appropriateness of your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u9	Thank you. Victor Petrovich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Victor Petrovich! Comrades, I can't imagine, in principle, what you're thinking, but not as often as you'd expect. Who's got the word? Akimova, please. The word Akimovius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Yatsenuk, distinguished colleagues! I want to draw your attention once again to what 11 numbers have happened. This did not happen on behalf of the people. The signature of Prime Minister Timoshenko on a document that was signed on a culinary basis is, in turn, a violation of the will of the people. How should we evaluate this step? First, it is a violation of the promises made by this Government and by Yulia Vladimirovna in the Universal of People's Unity. Secondly, this is a violation of the promises and intentions already set out in the “Policy, not for the people”. I recall that part four clearly states: the decision to join NATO can only be taken by referendum. Thirdly, this violates all the promises made by the coalition Government on transparency, transparency and absolute openness in the work. I would like to draw your attention to what we are seeing now, as the promises of the coalition Government are being fulfilled. The promise to transfer to the professional army has not been fulfilled since 1 January. That promise was made during the elections. It's not even in the program. We will have to consider with you the issues set out in the “For Politicians” programme, “For the people, not for politicians”, and I call on you not to support this programme. What took place on 11 January is an act of political irresponsibility. The vote for the programme gives the coalition Government a one-year indulgence. We cannot give this indulgence to political forces who are unable to bear political responsibility for their promises. We are against NATO, we are against political irresponsibility. And call on you to support our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u11	Thank you. Slauta renders the word “Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich. ” Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! I have just pointed out that in his statement by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in which he explained his actions regarding the signing of this famous and disgraceful letter for Ukraine, he refers to Decree 223-4 of 21 November 2002. I'm handing over Arsenija Petrovich and his statement, and the decision that deals with floods, and there's nothing about NATO here. Maybe it's another unfortunate mistake, Arseny Petrovich, yours. Because I remember how recently, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, all of Ukraine was convinced that such a country as Belgium was never a member of NATO, forgetting that Belgium was the founder of NATO. If you continue to do so, where is the guarantee that you will not declare war on anyone by referring to the decision to approve the calendar of the next session? I'm handing you this document, study it, please. Arsenija Petrovich, I would also like to remind you that under part 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the authorities of the State and their officials are obliged to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine and in the laws of Ukraine. And the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined by article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 73 of the Supreme Council Rules, which clearly state that you have the right to sign documents and acts adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and act on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So you had no or no authority to sign that letter. Arsenija Petrovich, today you have created an unprecedented step for Ukrainian parliamentaryism when you, alone, usurp the will of all of us, signed this disgraceful letter. I am addressing you as a responsible person, if you are, withdraw your signature, withdraw this letter, ensure normal peace in the country by your actions. If that is not the case, we certainly understand that, unfortunately, there is a majority in the Supreme Council today that is controlled by NATO, and we leave behind the right to act adequately in Parliament and beyond. We will not be broken, nor will we be forced to follow the course of the people of Ukraine today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u13	Vazivsky Vladimir Mihajlovich, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich! I will now come from the coalition of MPs, the coalition of democratic forces, and I will take the official position, the proposal, and we will demand that you put it to the vote. What are we talking about? On December 6, I emphasize this date – December 6 – was registered. A draft decree on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry for Kiev was registered. The third part of article 88 of the Rules gives 30 days to a profile committee to consider this draft Decree. Part three of article 92 provides that if a committee in the third part of article 88 of the Rules has not considered such a project, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the initiative of the deputies, may include questions in the plenary session at its initiative. As a result, Arsenija Petrovich, we have not understood the situation with regard to this issue by the Regulatory Committee. In view of the fact that the Rules of Procedure violated the deadline set out in article 88, part three, we propose that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine issue a decree of 1137, and we would ask you to make such a motion for a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u15	Knazevich Ruslan Petrovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u16	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Taking advantage of the opportunity, I welcome everyone with a generous evening and a Vodhresh. At the same time, I would like to inform my honourable colleagues that today the process of collecting parliamentary signatures has been completed under the initiation and introduction of a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine as part of the amendment to article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning the abolition of parliamentary immunity. Therefore, the deputies from the factions of the "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" bloc, with the help of our colleagues from the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, have fulfilled their commitment to initiate this issue in the Supreme Council. I remind you that according to the 154th article of the Constitution of Ukraine, exactly one third of the parliamentary votes are required for the bill to be submitted before. for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. His registration process in the Supreme Council is now under way, and we are convinced that at this session, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is still under an obligation to fulfill its promises to the electorate, who have been given to all without exception to the national deputies of Ukraine, who have joined everyone without exception the list of the national deputies of those factions that are now represented in Parliament. There was no meeting with our voters anywhere in Ukraine, where the issue would not be the first order of the day. I am convinced that all of them, without exception, have promised that immediately after they have gained the authority of their deputies, they will be able to do just that political commitment. Therefore, nothing prevents a timely review of this issue by a properly qualified Legal Political Committee, and at this first session of the Sixth Parliament of the Ukrainian Parliament to consider this issue, as required by the Constitution, having previously approved it by 226 votes. At the same time, it is appropriate to take a decision to refer this bill to the Constitutional Court to provide an expert opinion. This will allow us, at the next session of Parliament, to change the Constitution by more than 300 votes and end the disgraceful phenomenon that we are so actively fighting for over the last 10 years of the existence of the Ukrainian Constitution. I am convinced that, at last, in the Ukrainian State, the legal status of a member of parliament must prevail, which is typical of most European countries, when it is not immunity, but what is called parliamentary. The municipalities, i.e. the lack of responsibility for political statements and voting in the Chamber of Deputies, are the primary privilege of deputies. I am convinced that there will also be the voices of all the other factions who were actively involved in the electoral campaign. As with us, I am convinced that all members of the Chamber will vote in favour of the law amending the status of MPs in part of the liquidation of parliamentary benefits and privileges, as a number of bills have already been registered in the Supreme Council. I think we're going to go to a harmonized bill, and at this session, we're going to make the decisions that long-standing Ukrainian society is going to make, actively and unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u17	Thank you. Tolub conveys the word to Alexandrovsky. Well, just now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! I am addressing both you and the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Arsenia Yatsenyuk. It has already been said here that we are all aware of the joint letter of President Yushchenko, Prime Minister Timoshenko, President of the Supreme Council of Arsenia Yatsenyuk concerning the question of Ukraine's accession to NATO. The most interesting thing is that the public of Ukraine became aware of this after the press conference of the Congressman from the U.S. Lugar. Thus, it can be concluded that, secretly, behind the back of the people, the Trinity is trying to pursue a policy that the people of Ukraine do not support. It is well known that the absolute number of Ukrainian citizens interviewed is opposed to Ukraine's accession to the NATO aggression bloc. No wonder that letter was not officially declared by those officials. Clearly, they fear the wrath of their people and have done so in secret. I remind you, all those present and those who are listening to us today and who see that, by voting for the presidency, Yushchenko was forced to take into account the sentiments of society and promised to withdraw the Ukrainian military forces from Iran in the electoral campaign process. Today, the President's issue of Ukrainian military participation in actions in Afghanistan and Iraq is becoming quite relevant to Ukraine. The position of Prime Minister Timoshenko and the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Arsenia Yatsenuk, must not be indignant. The first conveys the interests of its constituents, to whom she has promised to take a position in this regard that is in the interest of the people of Ukraine. And the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Arsenia Petrovich Yatzenyuk, should be reminded of the need to follow the laws and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No one here has authorized him to take such a position as President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Arseny Petrovich! Here, in the Chamber, these proposals have already been made, and I categorically ask you, on behalf of the Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to withdraw your signature under this letter. We believe that, otherwise, we are entitled to question your mistrust as President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We ask you right now in this room, pending consideration of any other issues, to make an immediate declaration of withdrawal of your signature. Otherwise, we declare that we will block the rostrum of the Supreme Council because we believe that you are not in a position to continue to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u19	Burlakov gives the word Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, the truth is, in order to fail a matter, it is sufficient to make it absurd. This has also been the case with some of the provisions of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies in the part of enabling members to exercise their powers. Instead of supporting last year's proposals for a coalition of national unity, which has legislatively clearly defined what can be called a benefit and what is necessary for a job, then a opposition, and today's majority again zealously introduces an old depraved plate from the President about parliamentary privileges and inviolability. You could just ignore all these fake songs if you just did. If it did not harm Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if it did not harm the authority of every 450 Ukrainian national deputies present in this room. If we didn't deal with half-breeding, half-truthfully deeply mixed up in population and demagogy and distracting the Presidential political power from what people really expect from us, because we see instead of a state-owned program of building cheap and affordable for young people and for the people of housing, a primitive bustle around service apartments and rooms, hotels for a little over 100 people's deputies. Instead of normal, not even European, but normal roads, especially in the countryside, accessible and safe transport for people, trying to deprive a deputy of the opportunity to go to the district, use another transport to get to the train station or the airport. Instead of reforming the health system, trying to deprive members of his family and deputies of treatment in one clinic, where more than 40,000 citizens are assigned. Disposing of treatment in a well - known sanatorium in every factory, factory, firm, or office. By artificially inflaming the feelings of social outrage, a small part of the population of our new “national-largest people” spread lies about parliamentary wages and bonuses, as it is easier than to fill a legislative strategy for overcoming poverty and the concept of reforming the pay system, creating conditions for growing wages in the pitiful cost of producing goods and services. Colleagues! As early as 2003, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine had made it clear that the status law was a guarantee of the uninterrupted and effective exercise of its powers by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. To the same absurdity today we are proving Ukraine's cooperation with NATO, our “Ruslans” are transporting NATO cargo, but no one has given anyone the right to talk about Ukraine's attempt to join and become a NATO member. Today, only such conversations are damaging our military and industrial complex, hitting high technology, preventing us from integrating ourselves into a European security system. I think Arsenius Petrovich will take our advice and withdraw his signature, and this will be a courageous step.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u21	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the country’s distinguished national deputies, in view of the fact that I was very often approached today, I cannot escape this subject. And with your permission, I'm going to make a legal comment on it. The head of the Supreme Council acted, acted, and would act exclusively in clear conformity with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine represents the Supreme Council in relations with state authorities and international organizations. Item 2. The head of the Supreme Council cannot sign any documents on behalf of the Supreme Council that are not approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the law. I would like to remind everyone that the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in 2003 on the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of National Defence, which defines full membership in the Alliance under articles 6 and 8. And I'm surprised at the position of the individual people's deputies, the factions that voted at the time, and I'm saying that the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, which was then represented by Nestor Ivanovich, did not give a single vote against it. The faction of the Party of the Regions, which today, including the one represented by Nestor Ivanovich, has not voted against either. Now, with regard to decree number 233, passed in 2002, Nestor Ivanovich, as always, confused, clearly defines in paragraph 1.1 the issue of membership in the alliance. So once again, I want to point out that the Head of the Supreme Council acts within and in a manner defined by the Constitution, if the two laws and the corresponding decree are repealed, the Head of the Supreme Council will immediately withdraw his own signature. Moreover, I would ask that we be based solely on the positions of the letter. And even though none of the laws provided for a referendum, I was one of the ones who insisted on being included in the letter as a reference to a popular referendum. Thus, according to the second paragraph of the letter, the political will of the two parties, which was stipulated in the Universal National Unity, namely the Communist Party and the Party of the Regions, is clearly stated. In view of this, I do not understand the subject of the discussion that is taking place today. On the contrary, I have done everything to reconcile the political positions of both coalitions and opposition and minorities and to reflect the interests of the entire Ukrainian society. And the last. The issue of NATO membership today is not on the agenda, primarily in NATO. And to discuss whether Ukraine will become a NATO member today or tomorrow or not. In view of the foregoing, there is no legal basis for withdrawing the corresponding signature. The head of the Supreme has fulfilled his constitutional duty, there will be other legal and regulatory acts, and I will carry out other legal acts. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, if you're embarrassed by the speaker that you're opposed to the people of Ukraine deciding on NATO membership in the referendum, then there's no problem. Then let's say to the people that we don't need a NATO referendum today. Dear colleagues, we have. I'm not going to give you a replica because I didn't call your last name, and according to the Rules of Procedure, it's only given when your last name. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'd like you to listen very carefully, but let's not discuss it, if we're trying to destabilize the work of the Supreme Council on purpose -- that's one story. If we want to work as well as we did on the Conciliation Council yesterday, it's completely different. I've got a statement on the table by two factions about taking a break. What I want to ask. I understand that now after the break there will be "old songs about the main," so we will enter the hall and the rostrum. Half a minute, colleagues! So yesterday we didn't agree on the Conciliation Council, you're talking about the need for a break, you insist on a break, two factions?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u22	You insist. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I am obliged to announce a 30 - minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for recess is up. I ask everyone to take their seats. Dear colleagues, we are approaching the day-to-day issues agreed upon yesterday at the Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first bill that we are considering today is a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Ukraine to investigate the facts of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine by city chief Kharkiv Dobkin and the Secretary of the Kharkiv City Council of Kernes in the system of tariff, property, land, budget and financial relations in the performance of their duties. [[Decree No. 1155]] As a result, I was now approached. But you can't scream?Oh, my God! I'm telling you again, I'm going to give you my word. In view of the fact that the Party of the Regions is now addressing the application, I now give the floor after announcing the suspension of the application, then we proceed to the announced draft decision. I ask the Ukrainian people's deputies from the left wing to comply with paragraph 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, namely ethics in the hall. The head of the Supreme Council is not deaf, he hears everything, he gives everything according to the Rules. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u24	Respectable TV and radio audiences, respected colleagues! Joint statement by the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine. First and foremost: The signing of Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Yatzenuk means the beginning of the procedure for Ukraine's accession to NATO. We are outraged that the Ukrainian people have learned this from Senator Lugar's mouth. This shows that power has become an adventure, fearing its people, with three doors closed, deciding the fate of our State. At the same time, neither Parliament nor the Government nor any other collegiate bodies have considered the matter. Based on the opinion of the absolute majority of Ukrainian citizens, our constituents, we demand a reply to the “letter of three”. We turn to NATO's leadership that the “letter of three” does not express the will of the Ukrainian people, is not the subject of political consensus, but adds additional tension to Ukrainian society, which will inevitably lead to a deterioration of Ukraine's relations with the North Atlantic Alliance. In this regard, the factions of the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party have decided to block the work of the Ukrainian Parliament today, 18 January, requiring signatures: Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Yacinyuku, to withdraw the letter of accession of Ukraine to NATO. And the second. We also draw the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council that when you sign a letter, you have gone beyond the constitutional authority and requirements of the Supreme Council Rules. We therefore ask you to withdraw your signature under this letter. Otherwise, we will act adequately on the basis of the legislation of our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u25	So what do we do, comrades? Don't we want to work? Have you found a reason not to work? That's right, that's right. I'm asking for two factions: The Party of the Regions and the Communist Party. Bring it in. I think we're going to call a committee right now and we're going to take a quick look at this. To be considered: first, to amend the National Defence Fundamentals Act of Ukraine, which excludes article six and eight, and to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order, which, by the way, Nestor Ivanovich also voted in favour of paragraph 1.1, as of 2002 on 21 November. As soon as we put it in the hall, we vote – the signature will be withdrawn immediately. If there is no such decision, the Head of the Supreme Council has no right to violate the Constitution, must act in clear compliance with the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukrainian laws and reflect the will of the people's defenders, as expressed in 2002 and 2003. It's all dry leftovers. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I ask you to sit down. Let's continue the meetings of the Supreme Council, please, on all matters of the agenda. We will not discredit the authority of the Ukrainian Parliament. With regard to all other matters, let us meet at the Conciliation Council, once again at the legal disposal of signing or not signing this letter. I remind you once again, the issue of membership in the alliance is not today. There is a reflection, there is a confirmation that only what the Supreme Council has adopted in its legislative acts, there is nothing else. So I ask you, if I have violated the authority, in accordance with the Rules, to rule, 150 votes, take off the head of the Supreme Council, second paragraph, you can bring me to trial. But I'm telling you again, according to the Constitution and only within it is the head of the Supreme Council, dot. I'll tell you again, go to court. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! I'm forced to continue the sessions of the Supreme Council. We have a lot of legislation and legislation. Please have a seat, comrades, come on, sit down. Alexander Sergiyovich, sit down, well, that's it. Well, I realized that there was a reason not to work, well, that's not right, colleagues, that's not right. Let's sit down, well, the whole country is looking at us. What are you? Well, what do we afford, comrades? You can't do that, you have to work, you don't have to do that, I don't want to say that. Please sign up for the speech, dear friends. Five minutes to the show, please. Chef Roman Mikhailovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I would ask both the Party of Regions and the Communists to sign up not only for the right part but also for the left. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u26	Please give the word to the head of the faction Kirilenko Viácheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u27	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u28	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we are now witnessing with you how the Party of Regions and other minority factions have found reason to block Parliament's work. I want to remind the voters that they blocked the parliament when we, the coalition majority of us, came close to: first, lifting the MP's immunity, secondly, canceling the MP's benefits. They are now opposed to undoing the intrusiveness, and the company of the relief workers. All people need to know that NATO is just an excuse for them. The head of Parliament has legally signed and therefore has every reason to continue to consider the issues of the agenda, to which we urge you, Mr Arsenia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u29	Kostenko Pavel Ivanovich, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Please give the floor to my colleague, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u31	National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Party of Regions, I'd like to ask why the rostrum is being blocked today. Because in 2003 you also supported the bill on. The law that in Ukraine there is the goal of joining NATO, that you signed in 2006 the Universal of National Unity, in which you envisioned joining NATO, for the fact that the Yanukovich government had previously implemented a plan of action for joining NATO. It seems to me that the blockade today is not through NATO, but because the Party of Regions does not want to work in Ukraine when there are many important issues for our country when it comes to the responsibility of those officials who were in office today during the administration of Yanukovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u33	Soboleu Sergey Vladislavovich, House of Julius Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u34	Sergey Sobolev, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, please note who is now meeting at the rostrum, who made the statements? These are the people who, under the insistence of Kuchma in 2002, Mr. Ephraim stands, the Governor of Kuchma, voted in full for joining NATO as a legal prospect. Second, look who's next to the rostrum? Mr. Schufric, representative of the Social Democratic Party, who voted in full for the deployment of troops to Iraq, together with the Janukovic faction. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a conscience: it is you who have sent our young men to Iraq to be shot, it is you who voted in favour of bringing the troops directly to Iraq and for joining NATO in the future. And now you're giving us a perspective that you want to cancel with the Ukrainian people? Yes, it is in the referendum that a decision will be made on the prospect of joining NATO, and now do not block the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u35	Bilorus Oleg Grigorovich, Timoshenko's Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today’s turmoil has no basis. If we are honest with our people, we must tell them directly. If all of us combined wanted to join NATO today, we would get the answer: no. Only through a NATO referendum can Ukraine accept. So there is no need to play a storm in a glass of cold war. No one in NATO is accepting us today or tomorrow. But as responsible politicians, we must ensure that Ukraine prepares itself for joining the collective security system. Because without it, without any demarcated borders or other attributes, we're defenseless. And this is not good for our people. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u37	Korz Vitaly Terintovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u38	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u39	I didn't hear who to say the word to. But. Deputy Yavorowski, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u40	Dear Ukrainian voters! I want to address you in the first place, on behalf of the "Julia Tymoshenko" Block. We are very interested in what is truly democratic and moral power, we are interested in having strong, strong intellectual and strong moral opposition in Ukraine. What they're doing today is this opposition of ours, tearing down the normal work of the Supreme Council, I feel like we don't even need to fight them, they're fighting themselves. I would like to remind the voters when Yanukovic, as Prime Minister, went and talked to the whole of Europe, said that Ukraine was not ready and would not join NATO at all. I'm asking you who he took permission from and on whose behalf he spoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, time for the performance is over. Let's go back sometime. Comrade MPs, may I comment again? If you want to hear it, I think you'll be able to hear it if you don't. Once again, article 88 of the Constitution: “The head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u42	Don't yell, please don't yell. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't knock your head off.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u43	Once again, the Head of the Supreme Council acts within the limits and in the manner defined by the Constitution. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, what kind of wild people are you, huh?Oh, my God! But calm down in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u44	You don't want to vote for the Harks, do you? You can explain it to me. Well, how come you're in? You're still in my apartment. What is it? [[B in m in s a l in]] . [[From the hall. And we're blocking because we made a statement.]] [[From the hall. We are blocking the work of the Supreme Council. Because from a political point of view, it is declared.]] [[B in m in s a l in]] . We insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u45	Deputy Lukyanov, please don't stand over your soul. Don't stand over your soul. [[From the hall. Let's call it a break.]] [[B in m in s a l in]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u46	Come on, comrades. Quiet, quiet. It'll be all right now, comrades. Quiet. So I'm going to propose next. We'll meet the faction leaders now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Comrades, let me say the word. Let's get out of the faction manager. Colleagues, I'm asking for silence. I ask the faction heads to rise on the third floor. Let's make the right number with the signature of the corresponding letter. If we come to any agreement, we will. We're not going to agree, so we're going to show the whole of Ukraine how well we're doing. I ask the faction leaders to rise on the third floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u47	Meeting in short format of the Conciliation Board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's suggested to come out of factions for three minutes. I'm asking you to sign up, and then we'll make a decision. Please record a statement from the rostrum. Only four factions are somehow written down. “Lithuania Block” not recorded? Got it. Zdnovsky Vitaly Olegovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Who is speaking from the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”? Ivan Grigorovitch, are you speaking? Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u48	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The faction has a clear position. A problem in an equal place that doesn't exist. A number of laws that have clearly defined the activities of the government, the activities of the higher authorities in Ukraine, beginning with the President, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, other structures that should deal with the topic, are clearly laid down in a number of laws, where there is no reference for any other terms and so on, clearly prescribed Euro-Atlantic integration and the course of Ukraine right into the European Union and so on. So these documents are confirmed by the Universal, which is signed, including by our colleagues on the left today. Universal knows, texts, everything. We consider the problem in an equal place to block work, perhaps for the sake of those who spoke to our coalition colleagues. Because the question is being considered for the next few hours and the parliamentary integrity, and the parliamentary benefits, and many other things that are now resonant for society, more necessary, including the government's agenda. That is why our position, the factions of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, is to support all that is signed in Universal, including Mr Janukovic. The four political forces in this room voted in favour of these laws, except for one political force, voted in 2002 and 2003, and in 2004, except for one, I said, Peter Mikolaiovich, except for the Company, everyone else voted. I say it outspokenly as it is. Therefore, honourable colleagues, these documents are the key, and the final decision will necessarily be the U.S. referendum. We stand on this as our coalition colleagues do. Earlier in 2017 this will probably not be, because there are other constitutional factors that are a warning in this matter today. So we encourage our colleagues on the left to unlock the work. We have too much to do today in the line of day-to-day impenetrable laws and regulations and to start work. To confirm all that is in the laws, we can make a special decision, we may not confirm it, but the normative documents are in force, and the signature that Arsenija Petrovich placed under document three is absolutely legal. That's our position. Please unlock the work and engage in constructive activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u49	Thank Ivan Grigorovich. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u50	Viacheslav Kirilenko “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, to our deep conviction, the Party of the Regions, the Communists have blocked today the clear and large work of the Supreme Council for no reason at all by NATO, they have done so because the parliament, which has a democratic majority of the countries, has approached the key and resonant issues: the lifting of the parliamentary immunity -- once, all of the coalition's signatures are taken away today; the lifting of the parliamentary benefits and privileges -- to consider the regulation on the abuse of the Kharkiv City Head, member of the Party of the Regions -- three; to consider the abuse of the Kyiv City Authority -- four. We're looking at the issue of mistrust to the Attorney General of Ukraine, because the coalition doesn't manage the prosecution's inaction on many resonant issues over the past year. In this situation, of course, there was a need for a reason, his opposition found – the signing by three senior officials of the country of a letter concerning the need to join Ukraine in the NATO membership plan. We state that all three officials, including Parliamentary Leader Arsenij Yatsenuk, signed this letter within the limits of their constitutional and legal powers. We respect another point of view here, for example, colleagues from opposition who don't see the need of NATO like we do, because they just don't know the subject yet, or they're doing some kind of external political order. However, we conclude from the fact that the political statement of the three leaders is a signal to the foreign political community. It's not now, the state of this day and this minute, it's already joining the North Atlantic Alliance, but it's a demonstration to the whole world that high social, economic, humanitarian, legal and military standards of NATO will be implemented in Ukraine sooner or later. We stand on this and that is the essence of the political statement made by the three leaders of the state. The opposition has the right to oppose our views. Please make changes to legislation that already foresees the need for Ukraine to become a NATO member. Please make decisions that deny the position of three Heads of State, that's your right, but it's not your right to destabilize Parliament's work and block the mechanism that finally fixed its work. But if you want to do it, keep doing it. The President is legitimately elected, the head of Parliament is elected, the Prime Minister is elected, the coalition government is working, the state budget is adopted for the benefit of the people. If you want to block, please, but this will not even be supported by your voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u51	Thank you, Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, are you speaking? Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u52	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respectable voters! Two days ago in this rostrum, I tried to raise distracting questions and spoke of morality and morality in politics. And now, listening again from the same rostrum of other colleagues, I'm surprised. If we're talking about the Universal, we need to remember that Yushchenko withdrew his signature after signing the Universal. As I understand it, he didn't sign the second time, and there is no Universala, because there was no other meeting on this issue. As I understand it, and I am taking the order of our session today, there is not a single law that our distinguished opponents speak of. There have been draft laws that have somehow moved here since last session in order to complete the conduct of today's sessional meeting. Unfortunately, the coalition, which is so proud of its creation, has not yet begun, and this package of laws has simply not been finalized. But we're talking about another issue today. We did not set a precedent for today's discussion of NATO. The precedent was established by the other side. And we are saying that neither the Constitution nor the Rules of the Supreme Council provide that the Head of the Supreme Council should, without agreement with the deputies, sign a document that is not addressed to the head of a State. You can read this issue carefully by reading an article in the main article of our document. But that's not even the problem. We are all proud of the sovereignty of our State in this Hall. Thus, if we are to speak of the sovereignty of our State, by signing our signatures under any military bloc, we must understand that we are giving part of that sovereignty to the other side. And that's the biggest problem that we should probably be worried about today. I understand there's a minimum tonight. I understand that at the very least there are radicals who want to usurp power in this room. But we have done this, and it is unlikely that we will be able to build normal work in our State without solving the problem of consolidating this hall and ultimately consolidating society. We therefore supported the parliamentary speaker's proposal for the signing and adoption of an appropriate referendum order in this room. It was only after the referendum that we could define our position on NATO. In those positions, we were delegated to our constituents. And we will defend those positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u53	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u54	Respectable radios, TV sets, respected colleagues! The problem is much more difficult than any of my colleagues are trying to introduce it from this rostrum today. In society, 70 per cent of Ukrainian citizens oppose the accession of Ukraine to NATO. And the main issue on the agenda today is the issue of Ukraine's sovereignty, because, in fact, part of the mandate is passed on to the military-political bloc, which poses a threat. But what happened today is a letter of entry, return, accession to the NATO programme, which shows that Ukraine has declared the usurpation of power. Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Yatzenuk stated that they were the ones who were usurping power and were in fact in denial of the will of our people. What are the consequences? I would like here, distinguished colleagues, to reflect on this: in Ukraine, there is a division of society. We can, of course, say with you today that this act of signing the NATO accession programme, by these actors, will lead to a deepening of this divide. You and I are well aware that this will also lead to serious threats in terms of the territorial divide of Ukraine. And you're the one who's specifically provoking this by making our society crumbling. We are now well aware that this will lead to enormous economic consequences, especially in the economics, in the small, medium-sized business: oil, gas, energy system problems, the shoe problem, the dumping of waste from nuclear power plants. What did you forget about that? Or do you simply not understand what a country is and how it should be governed? We have warned the communists that, indeed, after the early elections and after the elections in Georgia, when these political forces of oranges will come to power, Ukraine will be drawn to NATO. We are well aware that capital is now dependent on banks abroad and today sells national interests, voting on a United States decree for anti-national, anti-national policies. Today, we must understand with you that this will have tremendous geopolitical consequences: this exacerbation of relations with the Russian Federation, with Belarus, this placement of bases or missile defence systems on our territory, are threats that are possible from the structures of international terrorism. But I would like to inform and remind you of one more today, distinguished colleagues: I believe that we must make the main decision today: to require the President to issue a direct decree to hold a referendum because he has for over a year ignored the opinion of more than four million citizens endorsed by the CLTC on the need to hold a referendum on joining NATO. And I demand that the Attorney General's Office bring Mr. Yushchenko's criminal responsibility for ignoring the will of our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-01-18-m0.u55	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made the following decision: given that there is no constructive approach to shaping the work of the Supreme Council now, we will, unfortunately, not be able to adopt any laws, unfortunately, to go on schedule for the meetings of the Supreme Council, but, in fact, to break up. And once again, I would like to point out that there aren't just curves, we've been discussing this question, there's no reason for any legal reference to the fact that there's an improperly signed letter. Initially, they adopted laws, signed by the constitutional majority, set a course for European integration, the Head of the Supreme Council confirmed that these laws are, the Head of the Supreme Council insisted that there be political consensus, write down the need for a referendum, and now some kind of speculation begins. But once such a political position, we will come to consensus within the next week. You don't want to work. I am disappointed, frankly, by this, deeply impressed, and I hope that by next Friday we will come to our senses and consider the bills. So thank you all, the meeting is closed. Until next Friday.
