ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. [[16:03:39]] There were 434 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we have a few unresolved issues. The first issue concerns voting on bills that have been put into the agenda. I would like to draw attention to both the opposition and the coalition, so that there will now be no blockade of the rostrum, to make an agreed decision on how to vote on these bills. And so after you've given me your joint decision, how do you see the draft bills that have been tabled -- 2228, 2228-P, 1408, there's no question and 2233 -- after that I'll immediately announce your decision, after you've agreed to vote on those bills. The other one. There's a desire to step out of the procedure before the 1108 bill is considered, and I'm going to write it down and I'm going to be able to do it. And I'm talking to my colleagues before I consider Bill 1108. It's an extremely important bill, it's a Labour Code that's been reviewed and developed for eight years. If we do not want to vote together, we must immediately decide that there is nothing to consider. So right before I take a decision on the beginning of the consideration of this question, I'm going to ask everyone that before I vote, I'm going to put this question to a vote so that I don't reject this bill. If we don't have a proper number of votes, we'll vote tomorrow, the day after tomorrow just to get the bill to the first reading. I'm asking you to sign up for the show. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u2	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, we would like to repeat my position this morning. We still insist that a vote be taken on the inclusion of the agenda and the final decision taken by 2228, that is, the elections in Kharkiv. I repeat, this is the principle position of the coalition. We believe that the state of things that now exists in Kharkiv, as evidenced by the commission of inquiry that we have created, is intolerable and unacceptable. And it has to be changed. We also see no reason to put to the vote a draft order of number 28, 2228-P, as this is not provided for by the Supreme Council Rules. In previous cases, when we decided to vote by hand, this was already the response of Mr. Ephraim, who accused me this morning, a decision was made.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u3	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please remember, in this session room, when you've heard the words productivity, scientific and technological progress, innovation technology, we're not doing anything, we're just trying to get the people to like it. We give pink elephants and all kinds of promises. If we don't start reforming socio-working relationships, the whole social sphere is doomed to collapse. We're still going to be painting holes, we're going to keep trying to make a beautiful look in bad weather. Today’s edition of the Ukrainian Labour Code is authored by all the Ukrainian National Deputies of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. The fact that such a Labour Code is that we will work on it is also known by the International Labour Organization. For eight years, they have watched with horror that we cannot accept it, that we cannot agree with each other, the unions and employers. I urge Parliament to take a state approach and vote it out in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u5	Paul Mokchan gives the word to John Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, respected Arsenija Petrovich, we are deeply sorry that 1,408 will not be the first to be considered. We understand that the next is a social cluster. We don't have to wait for the budget, we vote 1408. In addition, we are saving by cancelling unwarranted parliamentary benefits -- 180 million dollars for the budget, which can immediately be targeted at social programs, including the protection of few protected populations. Unfortunately, we have not received support from our colleagues and partners, including from the coalition; unfortunately, we understand that under various circumstances this issue is being postponed, carried away, delayed. In short, we see that the question is going to go into a dead end. We are forced to state that there will be no further voting factions on a number of bills. That's enough double standards. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u7	Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u8	Please pass Mr. Acid's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u9	Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u10	Thank you. Arsenija Petrovich, I want to address you and I hope to be heard by colleagues, including the regulatory committee, and Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, including. I can't help but react to his lines. And I want to address you with that kind of word. We keep telling you that you will follow the Rules. Then I ask you to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine, which says that the MP votes in person. We know how many MPs are missing in this room today, and we're just not going to let you vote for them today. So I'm asking you to either delete the cards, or run a roll-call registration so that those who are not in the room today don't vote, and don't tear down the hall. Do not make provocations about blocking the rostrum. Those who are absent have no right to vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u11	Bondar. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u12	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, I am to finish my speech. Once again, the faction insists on voting 1408. [[It's not populism.]] 180 million is the price of the question. 1408 is the abolition of the parliamentary benefits and the parliamentary political corruption that was unfortunately in this room. So we insist on putting him first. All with these slogans went to the polls. Why are we refusing now? Why the Politics of Double Standards? Let's give up the unreasonable benefits that we are, which we don't use much more. 180 million We can vote on this room right now even those social programs that are next in line. You don't have to wait for changes to the budget. I speak to my coalition colleagues, support us in this regard! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u13	Stoyan is a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u14	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues are national MPs! It's a good thing we came up with social issues. And I would ask the Chairman not to violate the Rules here, so let's avoid violating the Rules: all we have to do is continue to vote there -- an imperative mandate and everything else -- agree to do it today, let's do it in the end, and now we're going in the daytime. As far as the codex is concerned, the codex has certainly been developed for eight years. Why? Because today, the Labour Code is still in force in the '70s, and it was being developed from the International Labour Organization initiative. Government representatives, trade unions, employers, if you want, this is the constitution of socio-working relations in the state, this is the relationship between the government, the employer and the industry. And today, of course, you have rightly said, Arsenija Petrovich, if there is no good will to accept it, it is better not to put it, because very high price, I mean scientific and moral, if you want, and political of this law. So let's define and still vote for the Labour Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is over. I'd like to go back to everyone on the question of voting on the city of Kharkiv, on the basis of a vote on an imperative mandate. The first is about the vote on the presidential election in Kharkiv. As Head of Parliament, I have done everything possible to return to this issue and include it in the agenda. But if I put this to a vote right now, we're not going to consider the Labour Code, we're going to stop working at all until you have agreed between the opposition and the coalition on how to vote. I ask while we consider the Labour Code, meet the leaders of the coalition and the opposition and make an agreed decision on the issue. The city of Kiev we passed, I did everything I could to include the city of Kharkiv in the agenda and the city of Kharkiv. But I will not be able to block Parliament now. Try first to find a consensus on the voting order and immediately upon your instructions I will ask this question for consideration. The second is in relation to Bill 1408. I have expressed this position on the Conciliation Council, and once again I would like to address, first of all, the coalition representatives. The coalition, in accordance with the Constitution and the provisional Rules, acts as a single body. Make a concerted coalition decision on this matter. As far as I can see, if there is no such decision, please meet again tonight, we will put the question to the vote tomorrow. If you agree to review 1408 immediately after considering the Labour Code, I will immediately put the matter to the vote. As chairman, I will submit to the will of Parliament. But it is desirable that this will be done. So please, after considering the Labour Code, give instructions for voting. Kharkiv, so I'll put the Harks up right away. 1408 – means 1408. Just come to terms and let Parliament work. I'm announcing Bill 1108 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Hara Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u16	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, thank you very much, distinguished colleagues, and thank you very much for giving you a move and finally in two months of the Labour Code, which was worked on by three members of the Supreme Council, reached the rostrum. In fact, today you are given a pernicious bill of the Labour Code, which the third assembly is on the agenda, which has been reviewed by the International Labour Organization, which has been very difficult and difficult for social partners and, above all, employers' representatives - employers' association - representatives of trade unions. Round tables were held both in Kiev and in the regions. He has undergone many studies of research institutes dealing with the problem of labour. In the fourth session, the draft came to second reading, but unfortunately, for various reasons, it had not been considered a law and had not been adopted and moved on to the fifth. At the fifth assembly, his fate ended up before the Committee. The Committee had taken a positive decision, but since it had not been in the sessional room, and the fifth call had been closed and had not passed through the transitional law to the current session, a group of members of our committee had submitted it to Parliament in order to save many years of work, as if they had initiated its consideration. Dear colleagues, the need to adopt the Ukrainian Labour Code is due to the fundamental changes in the entire system of public relations that have occurred in Ukraine and to some extent relate to labour. There have been a number of problems of different orientations that must be addressed by means of labour law. The preparation of a new, codified act in this area is also due to the fact that the existing legal Labour Code was adopted back in 1971 and, despite the numerous changes made to it, is already outdated and does not meet modern economic conditions. In addition, there have been significant changes and complex social relations involving trade unions, new labour rights actors have emerged in the face of organizations, employers'associations. The provisions of the international labour law, which is binding on Ukraine and European Union acts, have become consistently reflected in national labour law. Under such conditions, there was a need for an integrated and interrelated solution to the problems of labour regulation, which had been implemented in the draft Labour Code. The draft new Labour Code of Ukraine has been adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u17	Vasil Georgievich, I'm sorry, I'm going to kill you. Dear national deputies, well, there must be some respect for a colleague who speaks out of a parliamentary rostrum. If there is a desire to communicate, please contact me in the towers, allow me to report. I ask everyone to calm down and move the conversation to the political outside the parliamentary room. Excuse me, Vasil Georgievich. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u18	Thank you. The draft new Labour Code of Ukraine aims to define the basic principles and mechanisms for the implementation of the labour rights and guarantees provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, the creation of appropriate working conditions and the protection of the interests of workers and employers in the market economy. An integrated approach to social and labour issues, codification and harmonization of labour legislation, incorporation of their standards, the draft is a feature of the bill. The draft Code seeks to adapt Ukrainian labour legislation to the European Social Charter, the General Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organization. The draft Labour Code consists of 9 books, 444 articles and final and transitional provisions. The main principles for the development of the new Code were the optimal balance of protection and, most importantly, the productive functions of labour law. Both functions are aimed at ensuring the protection of labour and the rights of the parties to the labour contract, and respect for established social standards in the field of labour. In doing so, it must be ensured that the requirements of part three of article 22 of the Constitution are met, which provides that the adoption of new laws does not restrict the content and extent of existing rights and freedoms. A non-revolutional and evolutionary way of reforming labour legislation using the best provisions of the existing Labour Code and other national legislation. Maximum use in the process of preparing a new Code of Experience of the International Labour Organization, as well as European Union legislation, as well as countries with economies in transition, in order to harmonize Ukrainian legislation on labour with international legislation. Ensure that workers are not discriminated against on the basis of sex, race, political opinion and other circumstances as defined in article 24 of the Ukrainian Constitution, ensuring that women and youth are better protected and that child labour is effectively prohibited and forced, compulsory work is prohibited. Differentiating the legal regulation of work, i.e. maximum inclusion in the new code of characteristics of small business, cooperatives and individual categories of workers. The draft Labour Code is based on the concept of labour law reform, which provides for the harmonization and inclusion of all Ukrainian legislation in the new Labour Code. The draft Labour Code of Ukraine fully incorporates the provisions of the Ukrainian Labour, Vacation, Collective Contracts and Agreements Act, the resolution of collective labour disputes, conflicts and part of the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act. Compared to the legislation in force, the first, much clearer than before, defined the scope of labour legislation, including its extension to foreign workers and employers. The second includes provisions aimed at adapting Ukrainian labour legislation to the European Social Charter and other international instruments: The General Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Conventions and Recommendations of the International Labour Organization: articles 4 - non-discrimination in the field of labour, 5 - prohibition of forced labour, 21 - fundamental rights of workers, 26 - fundamental rights of employers and so forth. Third, the labour contract is given the importance of a full legal act that is not allowed to go beyond. This removes the issue of the employer's right to unilaterally move workers, to change substantive working conditions and the like. Fourthly, it is proposed to establish an additional provision for the protection of the rights and interests of minors, it is the responsibility of the State and its bodies to undertake measures to prevent the worst forms of child labour, to detect cases of child labour, to establish the prohibited use of juvenile labour at work where they are subjected to physical, psychological or sexual violence and to establish a list of such works, article 290 of the draft. Fifth. For the first time, the conditions of suspension and dependence on its basis are defined. In particular, the removal mechanism for persons in a state of alcohol, narcotic or toxic intoxication, article 85 of the draft. It also takes into account the objective need for such removal and, at the same time, the human right to be inviolable. Sixth. Uncertainty has been addressed regarding the priority right to rehabilitation at work when the state is reduced. So a worker who has such a right has, for a large number of reasons, the right to rehabilitation???????? in the workplace than those who have this right for a smaller number of reasons. The implementation of the project will not require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. The adoption of the Labour Code should ensure the legal regulation of labour and related relations, respect for State guarantees of labour rights of workers, the creation of adequate conditions for the protection of workers'and employers'interests in the organization of productive relations, as well as opportunities for the development of social partnerships of all workers and related relationships. In the light of the above, please support the decision of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and adopt this bill on first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for the answers. Please Karpuk, “Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u20	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Dear Vassil Grigorovich, we welcome your efforts to create a new Labour Code. But, at the same time, there are many very controversial situations. For example, as in the past, as a professional actor, too much as today, you exaggerate the importance of trade unions in solving labour disputes. And that's why I have this question. We know that the Federation of Trades doesn't play that role right now, even though it has to play a bigger role. And at the same time, your importance to the professions in this bill is too great. How do you actually see the actual operation of trade unions in modern economic market relations?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u21	Well, the first, distinguished colleagues, the first thing I want to say is to trade unions, my native Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions is insulting me that this bill is very much reflecting the interests of employers. You can therefore be calm, our task, our committee and authors, to balance interests between the two sides and social partnership, between employers and employees whose interests are trade unions. We understand that if there is no such balance in the bill itself, there will be no social agreement at the firm, in the regions or in the country as a whole. Not enough, I would like to say that this bill was repurchased to employers and trade unions in the course of the year, and they were the ones who found the points of contact, the very middle of gold, so that the interests of the other side could be taken into account in the same way. And lastly, if at least one of the parties is satisfied, then the interests of the other are impaired, but today, frankly, they are not satisfied with both the individual provisions of both the employer and the trade union side.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u22	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u23	Thank you. Arsenija Petrovich, please give the floor to the National MP Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u24	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear Vassil Georgiyovich, I confirm that you said that this is a very important document of the Ukrainian Labour Code and I would like to ask the factions of the coalition, you see, the people's deputies are not listening very carefully, they're busy with other problems, but I would like to point out that everywhere in the world the Labour Code is called the Small Social Labour Constitution. So this is the law that applies today to 20 million working citizens of Ukraine, this is the law that will apply to our children and grandchildren. So I would like you to confirm some of the points that this law deals with the issues that today concern Ukrainian citizens working in civil law agreements, which, please say, is the law a balance of interests between employed workers and employers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u26	Thank you, Mikhail Nikolaevich, I'll start with the second. Indeed, the bill today has a balance of interest between the integration of employers and trade unions responsible for the interests of employees. The novelty of it and the importance of it can be shown even by respectable colleagues. You remember how much the Labour Code, which is in force today, represents. And here's the whole Labour Code, which has so much novelty about the changed socio-economic conditions, the emergence of new partners, I've already told you, employers who weren't united in the 71st year when they were adopted, that was back in 1971 when the Labour Code was adopted. To date, it is a balance of interests. But you'll still be given the opportunity to finalize, well, in the sense that you understand that here, what are the weaknesses of this Labour Code in drafting a second-reading bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u27	Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine - People’s Self - Defense. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u28	Dear reporter, in my practice, I have not once encountered the fact that often-intensive trade unions that are part of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, as it were, are very close to the workers. And some people want to create independent unions, like, say, independent railroads, miners. And these people who want to create these unions, they're under a lot of pressure. Oftentimes it comes down to the intimidation of people who want to step out of the Federation's trade union and join an independent trade union. Or, I want to ask you, maybe I read it carefully, but does the Labour Code protect the creation of such unions, the rights of such unions? And how does this pressure stand against employers?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u29	About your question. This issue is addressed by the Law on Trade Unions, Rights and Guarantees for Their Activities. This bill, in part, has the same standards for balancing. I'll tell you what. When we set up a working group, not only were the representatives of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine on the trade side, but all the Ukrainian trade unions that we have and are registered in Ukraine, without exception. So it was not that the trade union party was represented only by one federation. This is also a confederation of trade unions, an independent union of Ukrainian miners. And so on. There was no trade union organization that was not involved in working on the Labour Code. All the interests of all Ukrainian trade unions are therefore taken into account in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u30	Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u31	Dear Vassil Georgiyovich, Sergey Shevchuk faction of BUT. Please tell us that in a number of normative documents there are a number of harmful and dangerous professions, such as tuberculosis workers, health workers, and coal miners. Please tell us whether the introduction of the Code significantly improves their working conditions and the protection of workers. For example, on a mine called the West, is there, or did you have a financial and economic justification? How much money will it take to introduce the standards that you are proposing in the draft Labour Code? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u32	The case is that the Labour Code rules are generalized and unspecified for each sector. This is not an instruction. It is simply a special condition of the work of the same medics as the same miners, which are defined in specific laws, professional, specific. The bill takes into account individual nuances, but defines the general order of social and labour relations in Ukraine and significantly raises the social protection plan of all enterprises, regardless of the form of ownership or the size of the enterprise. And it creates normal conditions for the establishment, i.e. it stimulates the establishment of normal conditions in the enterprise and strengthens the control of the safety of this work and the protection of the workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u33	Stratovic “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u34	Vladimir Stretović, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” Party of the “Christian-Democratic Union”. Dear Vassil Grigorovich, you know the significance of the production process of collective bargaining, commitment to administration and the labour force. And you know very well as a professional actor, that today, in fact, a form such as the implementation of a collective agreement is very often not being implemented by employers. Whether the Labour Code provides for mechanisms of responsibility and supervision of collective bargaining on the part of the administration, on the part of those who provide jobs. Because today it's a problem, and people today are defenseless, and part of the job protection, the weekends, they work 12-16 hours, without interruptions, and there's essentially no responsibility for the fact that the labor force is being drained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u35	Thank you for the interesting question. I mean, everything you said was in the Labour Code. There is little specificity to the co-constructive work. Let us now allow 10 provisions that should be the norm of general agreements: sectoral agreements, regional agreements, up to collective agreements. We have systematized and defined in this bill, in the sixth book, that the General Agreement must be signed no later than 1 December in order for its rules to enter into tariff agreements, regional agreements that must be signed no later than 1 January; and those rules must be fully incorporated into the collective treaty rules, which must be signed no later than 1 February. This work is therefore systematized, both in preparation and signature of the agreement and in the exercise of control, to closely monitor compliance with those commitments undertaken in the General Agreement up to the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u36	Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear Vasily Georgievic, I would like to congratulate you, all the people's deputies, our voters, our workers, that today is indeed considered one of the most important documents that can actively contribute to the realization of the country's labour potential, the reproduction of labour resources. And to a large extent, the definition of the most important is the cost of work in Ukraine. I would like to ask you how much this document can initially achieve today's assessment of the labour force, its transformation to the modern level of the economy that provides our production and services today? And the second question. As you can see in the document, there are issues related to the normalization of the first job and the employment of minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u38	Dear Valery Ilic, thank you for what you said, and I thank you, because you have participated most actively in this and even had your draft Labour Code, but you have participated in this. With regard to the cost and labour force and the standardization of the first job, it was not specifically prescribed. The Labour Code defines the general rules of the game, which are specified in individual professional cases of specific bills. But the general rules concerning the granting of rights to a young person after the establishment of a job are indeed the same, but it must be enshrined in a law which, in principle, already exists, is registered with us in Parliament and can be adopted. With regard to the cost of labour, there is also a general characterization, but it will be necessary for a separate law to adopt rules on the determination of the cost of labour and the cost of labour. But in general, all these nuances are set out here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u39	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u40	Dear reporter, I will certainly support the adoption of this code because I have been directly involved for eight years. Vasil Grigorovitch, I would like you to explain clearly, first of all, to the radio audiences, to the television audiences who are listening very carefully to you right now, as opposed to our individual colleagues, who are already determined by their work, who will give you the adoption of the Labour Code for the Social Protection of the Working Man? I mean the right to work, right or not, protection, if released, the right, indeed, to adopt collective agreements and agreements, that is, the right to rest. How is this recorded in the Labour Code? Once again, I would like you to emphasize, for you are now answering. It's not a general document, it's a code that's built up the existing laws on social and labour protection of people, so it's a constitution that's brought all the laws together, and as we come out of it, we're already implementing separate positions by law. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u41	Alexander Nikolayevich, well, you practically answered your question yourself. Indeed, this bill regulates everything, without exception, which relates to social and labour relations in our country, including treaty work. But I have said that the Labour Code does not determine the cost of labour, is impossible and cannot be prescribed in this bill, but, let's say, it opens up new horizons to protect our people. A large number of Ukrainian citizens are engaged in medium and small businesses. Today, they are practically defenceless, they are hired without a workbook, they make no contracts, they fire at any time from work without warning it and so on. The bill provides for a whole system of protection, including small businesses, which were not understoodly available in Soviet times, so there is no legislation. And a range of protections, deeper protection for women, children, young people, veterans and so on, i.e. a whole complex that will raise the social security of Ukrainian workers above.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u42	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u43	Eugene Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street. Dear Vassil Grigorovich! Georgiyovich! A new social relationship has created new problems. Or do you think the problem is settled enough today when we have more than 7 percent of the unemployed and there are already hundreds of thousands of job applications, and they're avoiding it by hiding behind the extras, the envelopes, for them. The number of employees listed, but they agree to such a relationship is antisocial. Is this sufficiently regulated in the codex, do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u44	That's a very good question. Indeed, the Labour Code regulates the activities of employers who are not happy about them, i.e. the whole system, which is complete. Well, let's put it this way, it protects the interests of a particular employee from all sides in the workplace. Not enough, I want to tell you, in these rules -- I said this -- that we were based on the requirements of article 22 when adopting new laws, we cannot reduce the social protection and benefits and other benefits that we had for the adoption of the law. The Labour Code further protects this category, including payments, by envelopes and so on. It is not enough, on the one hand, to protect the interests of employees, on the other hand, by increasing the responsibility of employers for relationships, working relationships with employees at their place of employment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u45	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u46	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”. Your Honor, I am pleased to see your document, but there is a question. The question is that there is a reduction in the protection of workers and that some of the rights of employees are being reduced. You've obviously met the conclusion of the board of experts, so I'm asking you. I don't want specifics, because there are a lot of these questions, and you know that when we adopt new laws, article 22 of the Constitution does not allow for a narrowing of human rights, and we have: and those who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, by pregnancy and childbirth, we also have a reduction in those workers who are taking care of the child, and a reduction. Do you not think that these articles should be refined or excluded simply so that we do not make matters worse?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, I would, of course, like to be specifically told: such an article, such a page, such a paragraph. I would specifically answer that question. But I repeat what I said. Today we are adopting a bill with you on first reading. For the second reading, there will be opportunities for all the people's deputies, where you think there are some shortcomings in the Labour Code in preparing for the second reading to eliminate them. It's the same thing. And the second. Again, a working group is being set up to engage all the trade unions that we have in Ukraine, employers' associations, which will also work on the text if we accept it on first reading, God forbid, and on the proposals that people's deputies and even non-entity of the legislative initiative are the same employers' associations and trade unions. All of this will be considered in the working group, submitted to the Committee, the Committee will take its decision and submit to your court, any proposals that will be made or orally discussed or sent to the Committee in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u48	Time's up. Vasil Georgievic, let me ask you a question, which concerns me in the draft Labour Code. The first question is about the form of the labor contract. You write that a contract of employment is usually made in writing. We're already on this spaghetti for quite a long time, according to the KPC. I mean, the word "as a rule" everybody thinks of as an imperative, and so we're moving away from the key element again -- it's making a written contract, that's the first question. The second question, according to the Labour Code, is that it is possible to break up working relationships on an employee's initiative in a timely manner. But what if the employment agreement provides for appropriate penalties in writing? None of the provisions of the Labour Code provides for the employer’s ability to obtain adequate compensation if the employment contract is terminated. My two questions are only about one balance between the employer and the employee. Because we don't have to die in either direction, there has to be a balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u49	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Regarding the employment contract, which, as a rule, I have told you, Hot, I have already told you that the bill was a whole group of representatives of the State party, employers, trade unions, the International Labour Organization, and we have, of course, adapted the draft Labour Code to European legislation as far as possible because not all of us have taken into account. We have adopted a law on the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European legislation, the European Union's legislation, which, this paragraph, it came from the same side, given its adaptation to European legislation, is one thing. And the second, special, for example, there were no complaints from employers or trade unions in the consideration of the bill. But we can make any decision, and when we consider second reading, we can change what is envisaged in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u50	Vasil Georgievicz, could I ask you to record such a thing under the record, we must accept this Labour Code, taking into account the jurisprudence that exists in our work disputes. If you were to include someone from the Supreme Court in your working group, experts who are well aware of the practice of applying legislation on work. So that we don't get on the same rakes that we're sorry to be standing on today. No such objection, Vasil Georgievich?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u51	There's no objection. In fact, we usually invite representatives of both the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office. But in this case, we're going to focus even more on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u52	To use judicial practice in these matters. Thank you, Vasil Georgievich, please sit down. I beg you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi is a co-report. Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, I will begin with what Arsenius Petrovich emphasized, from court practice. You, each deputy major, and today, the deputies behind the party lists behind which the districts have been established, certainly had to take part in the consideration of complaints coming from places about the imperfections of social and labour relations. The need for the adoption of the Labour Code has long been discussed in this session hall, and the need for the adoption of the Labour Code is now being discussed by Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the International Labour Organization. It has been said that the adoption of the Labour Code is the urgent need of our time. I think each of you at the rally, in this session hall, have repeatedly asked these questions: Why does our husband, Ukrainian, working, hardworking, law-abiding man feel comfortable in Italy and in Spain, in Portugal, in Poland and in Russia, around other than Ukraine? Why is it that today, out of 20.7 million working people per employee in the national economy, there are only $5.1,000 of GDP, 10 in Bulgaria, 13.34 in Romania, Poland, why so low labour productivity? I'd like that. You're not surprised that in my speeches on social bills, it's very often harsh. Well, you can't keep looking at it like that. We've given up the basics of any society's viability. This foundation is work, highly productive work, and work is highly effective. Now, listen to what laws regulate this highly effective and highly effective work. December 1971 The Code of Labour Laws of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic was adopted, and since June 1972 it has entered into force. From the preamble and 265 articles, the changes were made to 221 articles. Thirty - five articles were cancelled, and 20 articles were introduced. For part of independence, a number of laws have emerged that conflict with one another and conflict with the Labour Code. A person who goes to court with the Labour Code cannot prove the truth. Today there is a chapter in jurisprudence called “Hard Law”. Thus, labour law is read on the basis of what? Labour law in market relations is read on the basis of the 1971 Labour Code. Talking about whether it protects this oligarch code or it oppresses workers is nothing to talk about, because unity and the fight against contradictions are the eternal categories that we're going to operate on, whether we want it or not. Without an investor, there will be no work; there will be no forced work, no wages, no pay at work. That's the first one. Second remark. The individual legislative acts that you and I have adopted in the session hall regarding the legal regulation of working relationships outside the legal code are objective. We had to come with you. I'll remind you, we're bills here, especially the third and fourth vocations, and you and I have adopted a work contract here for vacations that regulate working hours, job protection, pay. There's only one bill about two dozen changes and additions, I'm not talking about unhappy articles 71, 73 of the Labour Code. So clearly, society can't develop normally under such conditions, society needs the Labour Code. Therefore, from the Committee on Social Policy and Work today, we appeal to the national deputies of Ukraine. I understand the whole point of political opposition, I understand some of the terms of the political arrangements, the terms of the agreements. But I understand very well that if you and I are not involved in social work relations in the session room, we don't have a future perspective in the development of the social sphere. In all the political programmes, all the political forces that are currently in the session room have specific social tasks, all of these social tasks can only be done under conditions where social and labour relations are clearly, clearly, clearly and transparently regulated. And the last. In addition to the objective premeditations of market relations and our task with all of you to minimize the negative social consequences of these transformation processes, we need to remember with you that we also have a subjective factor, a subjective factor, and it's not so fast and it doesn't change people's mentality in one day. I mean both employers, employers, and employees. I'll tell you more, I understand that with the adoption of the new Labour Code, with its operation, it's going to be hard and long work, but there's not going to be a better life again, just as we're putting in place a mandatory national social health insurance, there's not going to be an immediate improvement in the health care of the population in Ukraine, clearly, a necessary adaptation period. But, dear fellows, we do not have the right to fiber today, we do not have the right to delay today, we need to start working on the Labour Code. And I encourage, using the opportunity and the observation that Arsenija Petrovich has made, I urge all committees to join, especially the committees of the economic policy bloc, in adopting this bill, because we need to find consensus: the employer, the hired worker and the union. And there's a union behind the hired worker, and that's why the state is behind it. In this triangle, we must certainly build a future, a better life for the people. I pass on my saved minutes to answer questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Reva.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u55	I'll pass Papiev on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u56	Mikhail Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, such a question. By the way, I would like to answer the question asked by the Chief about the preferences that the employer receives from the employer in the event that he terminates his employment contract at the initiative of the employee. So you remember, even in Geneva, when a joint working group of employers and hired workers went out there, that's what we put into the variance protocol. So I have a question for you to ask me about this important document. You see, we didn't have a deal with you, but I'd like to hear your answer. What law of Ukraine must we adopt at the same time as the Labour Code in order to have full social protection for the hired worker? And so that people can only get raises and wages and social guarantees from the adoption of this Labour Code?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, colleagues, remember, in this session hall, when we moved with you from social security to social insurance, Europe did not believe that we were in a short period of time, and at that time miners were traumatized, mutilated by selikasis, throwing helmets at the President's Administration because there was no one to pay regressive payments. We had delays on hospital leave. We moved from social security to social insurance. In the same way, Michael Mikolaiovich, answering your question, from resisting employment agreements, working relationships to contractual ones. We, specifically, need a bill on social dialogue. Ukraine can't stand on barricades all the time. We need to find common points of view and common points of the solution. There was such a bill from the President on social dialogue. What did anyone not like about it? The president didn't sign it. I think it needs to be reinstated, and it is imperative that the bill be passed by the president. Because it's going to be a guarantee of social rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u59	Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u60	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, let me express my support for this bill, because it is extremely necessary today for all of our public and for those who are hired workers and employers of the bill. Because hundreds of thousands suffer from the fact that our active law is imperfect. The code has to be in line with all those needs and market economies and democratic societies, and the conditions in which people are working today to adequately respond to challenges. Hundreds and thousands of people are freeing themselves. I have a specific question for you. Please tell me if this bill provides for the inability to release by cancelling the decree, for example, about the appointment.? I've put in a bill like that, and I'd like it to go into your code too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u61	This is a very important question. It was the subject of day-to-day protests at the International Labour Organization when experts from the International Labour Organization blamed us for taking such measures in Ukraine, to the extent possible. They are in stark contradiction to International Labour Law, and certainly there is a chapter in the Labour Code that contains a chapter that envisions inadmissibility. I'll tell you exactly why this happened. Dear colleagues, KZOT, the Labour Code. Of the 18 chapters, there are 8 that seem to regulate. They regulate the general situation. I mean, there's a general situation left of KZO. Thus, with the adoption of the Labour Code, a person will be given the opportunity to defend himself in court with specific articles, specific points, and specific positions on his hands. The man of work is all human beings, including the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u62	Chechtev Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u63	Dear Jaroslav Mihajlovich, really this afternoon we are looking at the most fundamental document, the code, I would call it not even a code, but rather a labor constitution, the fruit of the work of the deputies of several cadences of Parliament's work. First of all, thank you very much to you, the members of the Party of the Regions, Vasily Hare, Alexander Stoyan and many others who have worked on this code. It's the most fundamental work. I ask myself, "Does anyone in this room have a hand to vote against this code and thus play against their people in the field of social programs?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u64	Honorary colleagues, directly involved in the drafting of this bill, accepted the Ukrainian National Deputies: Viacheslav Kirilenko and Ludmila Denisova, Oleg Shevchuk, Vladimir Vyezivsky, Ukrainian national deputies from other political forces. [[Maruschenko]] I said right away. I understand certain conditions, the specifics of the day, I understand the struggle, the opposition, but believe me, the Labour Code is not the bill that goes around and around which you can open up some political games, is the basis for the vitality of any society. The better we work, the better we live. Everything else is from the evil: cynicism, populism, demagogia, and it always ends in some kind of disaster. That's why I want to make an official statement, the co-authors of the Labour Code are all members of the committee. In the second reading, there will be the entire session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u65	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u66	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, since it is indeed a labour constitution, would not want our new constitution to see a reduction in the level of labour rights guarantees. For example, article 183, 184 of your Code provides for permanent leave for the employer, not taking into account the interests of the worker. In 184, so-called collective vacation, when people are sent on vacation because of simple business or climate conditions. By the way, employers are very often using these standards. And the next. You're expanding employers' rights at the expense of making it much worse to guarantee workers' rights when they go on vacation without saving their wages. I would like you to respond to your vision and these comments were taken into account in further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u67	Thank you. Vladimir Georgievovich, your question contains two, I may say, of the most pressing issues that concern the protection of a person's work. Look, 183th and 184th, they're written fragmentedly, i.e. the company's stop, the prevention stop, there's things that are technologically, but you said correctly, in order to avoid any deterioration in working conditions, not to pay for cancer, we have to write in the second reading to these two articles -- say, under which circumstances, the military condition, for example, the enterprise moves, the enterprise translates and so on. And one more thing. Dear colleagues, let's not be in this session hall anymore, so, in the language of my students, we're going to meet employers. They're also oligarchs, they're cockroaches, they're all non-workers. They invest in some kind of money and should respect their rights by answering your second part of the question. What was the problem with discussing the Labour Code?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u68	Let me finish. Come on. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u69	Trade unions asked this question: Agree with trade unions for the direction of a company and a factory. We're eating. We did not, in Geneva, explain to them the Mopolci: The landowner in London, for example, or someplace in Moscow, he appoints the executive director. How can he agree with the unions? What else has happened? In one factory there are three or four unions, three or four groups even, and all of them are proving how much they love the people. We need to solve the problem with the union movement, because it is today. Well, the public can't dictate to the person who invested the money, how to manage it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u70	Alexander Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u71	Please pass the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u72	Stoyan's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to one very important question. It is that, in fact, in recent years, we have come up with a different, completely different form of property, which is private property, and the person of work has proved to be unprotected by both the Constitution and the laws, even though we have passed laws on pay, on removal. [[10-15 years]] about solving labor disputes, collective bargaining and all that. And it's in this code that solves these issues. But I want to draw attention to this. Indeed, it was very difficult to balance interests. Why? Because, on the one hand, employers would like to give less rights to trade unions as representatives of the interests of workers. On the other hand, the trade unions wanted too much to claim rights or, through this code, to extend the full responsibility of the employer for what was being done. So when we were preparing this code, we said, one of the motives, let's say, is to solve all of the pressing issues through collective.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u74	Alexander Mikolaiovich, I want to remind you that this is a general philosophical or general political standard. What is the compromise between the two sides? The result of the compromise between the two sides is dissatisfied with both sides and the dissatisfaction of the other side, because if one side wipes hands, it's no longer a compromise, it's a rematch, on the one hand, on the other hand, a surrender. That's why we're elected here to the session room by people who consider us to be the political elite of society to help us find this compromise: the State, the hired worker and the labour force and the employer. When we find this compromise, it's clear that in some ways it will not satisfy someone, but it should satisfy us in the main way – to increase productivity, to increase the investment and innovation model for the development of our society, and to make sure that we make scientific and technological progress. The market transformations in Ukraine are irreversible, but our competitiveness is, unfortunately, still on antisocial dumping, on low wages. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u75	Victor Slatta.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u76	Dear Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, how will the rights of agro-industrial workers be protected: guaranteed pay, holidays? What effect will the Labour Code have on the welfare of the peasants in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u77	We had a long argument about a separate chapter, a separate chapter, about workers in specific working conditions. This was also true of small, medium-sized businesses, and it applied to entrepreneurs. And for the time being, this question remains and is being considered in the hall. Here's the thing. Small and medium-sized businesses, fixed taxes, the only tax, they strongly deny that they have any specific standards. You have two questions: how will the employer, the employer, the one in the village be protected; and, on the other hand, how will the hired worker be protected? I'm sorry, but the Ukrainian peasant's mentality isn't what it used to be, and it just doesn't go into the soil or slavery, it's going to demand and protect, it's going to demand and pay for work, on the other hand, it's going to demand and help the state, so agricultural production has a specific feature. The same specification lays down the need for suction. So in the session room, we will certainly consider the problem separately. Separately an agricultural worker in the Labour Code does not write out.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u78	Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u79	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Indeed, respectable colleagues, the price of the issue that is now being considered and will be voted on, is extremely high. And that's why I would like to stress once again that we have to vote extremely responsibly, because some of the colleagues here are already saying, "Don't give God up, somebody's gonna have a hand up." And the second question I'd like to ask you is this. Jaroslav Mihajlovich, please tell me, if you compare the protection of the hired worker, the document that works today, and the document that is prepared, let's say, by a team of authors, how do you assess the degree of protection of the hired worker in this document? Because I have the impression that this project gives priority to the employer, not to the hired worker. And that's a big flaw in this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u80	Well, if you mean any preferences in this bill, I think you're wrong. Just take these 444 articles and spread them in the same direction: protection of the worker, protection of the employer. Most importantly, the left-hand side refers to the hired employee. Under what conditions can it not be released, under which conditions it cannot be moved to another place of employment, under which conditions a contract of employment cannot be terminated by order, by cancelling the order, and so forth? All of this is, but, Peter Stepanovich, you've asked a beautiful question that concerns us all because you're right. If we are in a hurry, for example, I am not in favour of the fact that KZOT is a bad code of labour laws, as well as Simashka’s health system, as well as the higher education system of the Soviet Union, now recognized as standard. We're talking about something else, KZOT looks like it's not going to work anymore. That's why we say, on the basis of KZO, on the basis of the bills that we've passed here, we're going to adopt a law that would balance, rights, duties, the protection of the employee and the person who gives this job. Oh, come on. It's about time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u81	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u82	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Street. Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, well, to report on this matter only, of course, should have been like you. But anyway, you said yourself that there's a very weak place probably in this code -- that's the man who works in the village. And really, for the second reading, if it goes through first today, we have to work really hard here. Because a lot of questions just don't have an answer, not just to you, but I think there's a lot of people in this room. I'm also interested in this question, the reporter said there's no need, there's no need for additional funding for this bill, I don't think it's quite right. I think there are chapters here that will have a positive impact on the state's budget, but there are those that will give a negative. Is there a balance sheet for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u83	Dear Eugene Ivanovich, you asked a question that was very acute on the recent round table with the participation of the general public, scientists, law specialists, law professionals. The point is that the committee has been looking very long and painfully at this balance sheet, which was spoken of by the distinguished colleague of Cibenko, also of which you are speaking, about what needs to be maintained and achieved balance. Let us talk to one another, two wise people, for this is rarely the case in the session room calmly. Yeah, I'll come over and talk to him later. Without a village, Eugene Ivanovich, without a village, there is no demographic future in our Ukraine. [[I'm from the village.]] If someone is "large city," I want to remind you that the majority of the people sitting here are either from the village or their parents from the village. There will be no filling of students, there will be no armies, there will be no law enforcement agencies. And what's happening in our eyes is that it's not because there's lazy people. Because that's how we organized their work. It's going to have to be done, and then it's going to have to be what I remember when I was a kid -- both the club, and the sports competitions, and the shows, and the school, and the gardens, and the beautiful illuminated roads. For all of this, we must work together with you here to fight and work on the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u84	Can I ask you a question, Jaroslav Mikhailovich? Once again, I wanted to refer to you as a respected person who is actively working on this code, and it is clear that we all realize that the sole balance of interests between the employee and the employer must be preserved in the code. But I'm interested in one thing that's been published in this code: the scope of application of the law. Is this KPC deployed to political positions? You know what this is about. This is a very complex dilemma that has existed for a long time in our working relationship. I mean, if you don't think it's necessary to apply this law, this is the second article, if I'm right, to make it clear that it's not distributed into the law because it's not a classic work relationship that comes up when you're appointed and released from political office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u85	Arsenius Petrovich, it is clear. So in the Labour Code, we didn't write this rule separately, because it's clear that if a person chooses, this person chooses and enters into law, civil law, the legal and legal relationship of another plan. If, for example, a person is appointed by decree or by quota allocation, this is something else. But in general, if you're talking about balance, so as not to allow speculation in society, not to allow discord, hostility, constant search for enemies, then I think we can also write in the Labour Code a rule that we can observe at the level of local self-governing organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u86	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I'll be back again, I'm boring, so, article 61 of the Labour Code. It foresees a mechanism for the employment of a person who has been elected to office. I mean, I guarantee you that there will be a double interpretation of this rule, that any person who is elected and political will require the dissemination of the requirements of the relevant Labour Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u87	Arsenius Petrovich, now in his speeches, the Ukrainian national deputies who are working on the Labour Code will certainly answer that question. I'll tell you in general, I'm sorry, I have little time. There is a Constitution of Ukraine that clearly defines order, an appointment, if you mean political office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u88	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u89	There is a Constitution of Ukraine that clearly defines appointment and dismissal and is a law on status. For example, regarding the status of judges, prosecutors, national deputies, and so forth. But you're right to say there's a second case, and the socio-working relationship between the Ukrainian people's deputy from the BUT faction, who has no place to live, who is not given an apartment, because that's political relevance. It's not the order anymore. Or from the faction, the faction “Our Ukraine” all have apartments.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u91	We need to improve.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u92	Colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a speech and a discussion. First, let's make a statement from the faction and then make a statement from the national MPs. Let's just write it down from the faction. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Yuri Haydaev Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. So we made a deal with the faction at first. Write it down now from the deputies. Are you demanding statements from factions or from MPs, Peter Mikolayovich? All right, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Yes. Peter Mikolaiovich, say, 3 minutes, regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u93	Dear voters! Dear hired workers, leaders of the trade unions! Today’s consideration of the draft Labour Code confirms that it is another attack on the rights of people who want to earn an honest living. Today’s Code regulates relations in the form of state, trade unions, and employed workers. During the years of independence, factories and factories were stolen primarily by gangs in conspiracies with officials. The main thing is that a code like the Constitution, a draft code, does not guarantee your rights. This is where we start when we analyze the project that the committee came up with today. Under the terms of this draft code. The state, as a result of the privatization of the loss, was at all important. The Constitution declares rights rather than guarantees that there is no employment policy in the state and we can confirm that there were 480,000 industrial sites in Kiev, now there are 120,000. Every year, Ukraine loses 200,000 jobs in the industry. This is evidence that the absence of this policy, the absence of the influence of the state, will lead to only the leaders involved. Why won't the Communist faction vote in favour of this draft Labour Code: First. The draft Labour Code severely narrows the rights of employed workers and gives employers more rights without justification, which is a direct violation of the Constitution. Most of the project's standards are set out in the market liberal model of economics, the project is not designed to protect a simple human worker, and it deprives him of any legal and social protection. The other one. With the introduction of a contractual form of labour relations regulation, the role of the State is virtually absent in this important socio-economic sphere, which in our current circumstances can lead to the conclusion of cabal labour contracts. And the courts they refer to here today we know who paid more in the courts is right and right. I think the workers need to understand what this will lead to. Third. The Communist faction cannot support part 6 of article 104, which states that the Employer’s Labour Contract can be terminated if an organization considers an illegal strike, as well as the refusal of the parties to the strike to stop the strike. The exemption is permitted on this basis within a month of the court’s decision on the legal force. Four. We can't support this, because it's very clear here that the adoption of this version of the Labour Code is actually going to be a policy for the destruction of businesses. The draft Labour Code provides for the possibility of regulating labour relations by regulations, acts issued by the employer. Thus, the draft Labour Code is far worse than the original edition of the Labour Code. The Communist faction will not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u94	Scybinetsky, Timoshenko Street. Alexander Skibinetsky, Timoshenko Street. Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u95	The noble Arsenya Petrovich, the noble national deputies! There is no doubt that the adoption of the Labour Code is too strong and too important for Ukraine’s modern economy. But at the same time, when we talk about the weight of the adoption of this code, we cannot say about the balance of its acceptance, taking into account the numerous observations that are before this code. In general, the draft Labour Code has some regulatory flaws, including the use of outdated terminology for the classification of employers or disabled persons. The project does not conform to the principles of gender equality, since only mothers are mentioned in regulating the characteristics of the labour relationship, since the Ukrainian legislation has taken substantial steps in this regard. There are also shortcomings in the definition of the principal subject of employment as an employer. The concept of working relationships is not, in fact, defined. The draft contains rules on the adoption of labour law bills, the procedures for dealing with labour disputes by courts that conflict with the principles of division of rights in the field in general and in the law in particular. It is incomprehensible that the code applies to those who are in a service relationship rather than in a work relationship: military, cultural, internal affairs, local self - government, and so forth. There are also criticisms about the extension of the Labour Code to government officials. As mentioned earlier. Inadmissible in the Labour Law is the institution of the definition of invalidity or annulment of the employment contract. The procedures are specific to civil law where subjects are equal, not to an area of significant social character. Although the authors note in the Explanatory Note that the project is aimed at complying with European and international law. A number of project rules are discriminatory or widely interpret the standards of relevant international instruments, such as the absence of signs of discrimination, the New York Convention No. 111 on Discrimination in the Work Area, and the 1958 work that is considered to be forced labour. ILO Convention 29 or Sexual Harassment International Standard Social Responsibility. The rules governing the work of Ukrainian citizens abroad as well as foreigners in Ukraine are noted, since the proposed rules contain unreasonable restrictions on the mandatory binding of the right to work where the deadline for the person in Ukraine is clearly defined. In general, there are a number of other comments, very serious remarks. I think that these observations are in every faction. And so given the importance of this law, we propose to refer this bill to read again, to create a temporary special commission involving representatives of all factions, government representatives, employers and the Federation of Trades in order to make this Labour Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u96	Let me finish, we haven't heard your last words. Please return to the rostrum. Rereading the first reading, then?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u97	Re-reading from the involvement of representatives of all factions, government representatives, employers, and the Federation of Trade Unions to make this Labour Code really the working constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u98	Thank you. Victor Slatta. Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, Mikhailo Papiev, faction of the regions of Ukraine. You know, first of all, I'd like to thank all the people's deputies in Ukraine who are present for our consideration of such an important issue as the Labour Code. And I remember now the date of December 11, 2003, when I, as the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, reported a draft of the Ukrainian Labour Code on my first reading. And at the time, we had two other alternative drafts of the Labour Code for the People's Deputies of Konovaluk and the People's Deputies of Gunsky. And we agreed that we would unite these bills and find consensus, and we voted in the Supreme Council, and we adopted the Labour Code as the basis. Next question. There is now much talk about the need to create a working group of Ukrainian national deputies. I'm in charge of this, but first of all, we need to get out of these important documents from civil society, because this draft of the Ukrainian Labour Code was worked by a working group on a tripartite basis, which included government representatives, employers and representatives of professional communities. It's a complicated document. Each side may have its own proposals, but the uniqueness of such documents is that they have to be balanced and compromise. That is why I would also urge the Ukrainian National Deputies to support all factions in this bill, because the representatives of the “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense” faction and the representatives of the “Julia Timoshenko” and the “Lithuania Block”, and, of course, the factions of the Ukraine region, have participated in the drafting of this bill. And more than that, I would like to mention from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that this draft of the Labour Code was worked out to support the United States government and the International Labour Organization project. The project that you're offered today has been conducted by the International Labour Organization in Geneva and has a positive conclusion. There are six differences until we find a compromise between employers' organizations and professional associations. But this is the work of preparing for the second reading. It's a very important law. And regarding the performance of the Communist faction of Ukraine. You know, that Labour Code that we've been running since 1971, it can't handle any criticism today. We have about 40 percent of the working citizens of Ukraine today are not covered by labour legislation at all. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we're talking about Europeanism, let's talk about Europeanism, and this is the position of the factions of the regions of Ukraine, from European positions. This is a document that, without exaggeration, can be described as a document of a European type of work relationship. I ask the Ukrainian people's deputies to accept this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u100	Alexander Stoyan. Presentations have already been made by the national deputies of Ukraine. Szybinetsky did not want to make a statement from the “Julia Timoshenko Block”? I didn't. Moreover, he is in Cape Town, and in principle it is difficult to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u101	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw all of you to the fact that this is really a very important law, and it has a name, not political, but called the “Hard Code”, which is a code of laws that unites all the laws in force today, many of them have appeared in the last 10 years. It's about paying for work, it's about solving collective labour disputes, it's about collective employment agreements, and much more. Moreover, this code also includes the law on social dialogue. So with the adoption of this law, first of all, we decide the normal relationship between employers and representatives. and by the unions as representatives of the workers. Secondly, this law would like to generalize the entire legislative base that is today. I want to address, first of all, those who have businesses today. I mean both large and small businesses. Do not be afraid, fellow countrymen and those who listen to us! The Code does not in any way violate the employer’s rights. On the contrary, it makes it possible to establish this relationship at the legislative level. Now for the balance of interests. Of course, when we worked on this codex, there were many contradictions. Why? For example, employers see, yeah, you give a lot of rights to trade unions. For example, there was a point that a person could not be dismissed without the permission of the trade unions. We found another formulation. On the other hand, the unions say no. employers say, no, we should have that right, that is, as a result of compromise, and we worked really on a three-way basis, we balanced our interests. I also want to confirm what my colleague Papiev said. Dozens of round tables, dozens of scientific conferences. Moreover, well - known international law specialists themselves read the code of employment. He was an expert at the International Labour Organization. And of course, if, let's say, our fellow Communists think that there's a little bit of a humiliation of human rights. Nothing like that. They're balanced. So I would urge you to support him. And one more moment. There is opposition and calls for support to the Labour Code, which regulates normal relations in the state. They speak and refuse to accept the code, send him away for some far - reaching work. So you're against us having a normal relationship? What do you want today's working relationship to be regulated on the grounds, on the barricades, and so forth? We urge you to support this codex in the first reading. All that you have, all the suggestions that you have that employers have, will be taken into account, but if you don't accept it today, it's to show disrespect for a man's work. I encourage you to accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u102	Sergey Hrapov. Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u103	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be very careful about discussing this document, because this is not the first code we have adopted in this room. What is the principle of differences, such as codes adopted in Soviet times and codes adopted today? Well, let's say I wanted to illustrate this by example of the Housing Codex. For example, the Soviet Housing Codex was designed to provide housing for a person. The housing code, adopted in post - Soviet times, is designed to deprive the person who received housing in Soviet times of his residence. That's the principle of the difference in approaches to these documents. That's the first one. The other one. Unfortunately, this project that we have today has a very serious tendency towards employers. And I'm not surprised, actually. For let's be honest: among the factions that are the most numerous in this room, there are a lot of people who are in the same iposa: he and the national MP who are supposed to protect the hired worker, but, at the same time, he is also an employer. And the question is, Which button is he supposed to push? Is it to protect the hired worker, or to protect himself, the beloved, the employer? And one more thing. I would like to say that in this document, there are a number of things in this project that are complementary to what Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko said, which the faction simply cannot agree with. So let's say there's no party report for the performance of the labor contract. That's not right. Moreover, the unforeseeable responsibility of the parties for failing to comply with the terms of the employment agreement. It's crazy, too. Article 139 provides that the employer’s discretion may increase his working hours to 10 hours. They'll deny me, they'll say, “And it provides that if the working day is reduced on a different day.” But we don't know that the employer will forget about it by chance? So, honourable colleagues, unfortunately, even in spite of the oaths that have been made today, that the one who does not vote is a traitor and so on and so forth. The fact that a document of extreme importance requires us to vote in favour of this document is very and very important. Regrettably, the document is presented today in a way that still needs to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u104	Alexander Efraemov from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u105	Thank you. Please pass the word to Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u106	Yuri Miroshnichenko from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u107	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, today is the day we're looking at really, really important issues. We have considered the issue of children, orphans. Now we're looking at social issues no less important, it's a question of working relations in our country. I would like to speak now not only as a national MP, but as a lawyer, and to ask all of you, my honourable colleagues, one question or one that is being done today primarily by hired employees, those legal acts that regulate labour relations? Can a workman feel protected under the conditions of those legal acts that are very often in conflict with one another, and thus allow various apherists, in fact, to reduce, narrow, violate, brutally melt their rights? It probably doesn't hire employees or honest employers, or even more, you and me as national deputies. So, in my opinion, it was perfectly timely and absolutely correct to ask about the codification of all legislation that regulates labour relations in the same Labour Code. After all, the Code of Laws on the Work of Old Ages is now being published. Our Communist colleagues say that in Soviet times the Code was more humane, it allowed people to work and get housing, get comfortable working conditions, but now the situation has changed, now, indeed, the liberal economy. Today, citizens no longer use it, but they have it in their private possession. And according to these conditions, we need to change legislation, not bury our heads in the sand, but try to settle all the relationships that we have today, because we can't destroy them as such, they still exist. As for this bill, I think we should adopt it in the first reading. All the comments that have been made, they certainly have the right to be processed. Several cadences worked with our colleagues, worked on the doctrine. First of all, what is positive about this codex? He has a clear legal doctrine of all legal relations in the workplace. And that's what we need to base on. And then work on second reading, include perhaps excluding some articles that we consider to be something that should be removed and then approved in the second reading as well as in general. But if we stop the legal process now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u108	Let me finish. Kilincarov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u109	I have been able to work with the Committee on Social Policy in the past, and I must say that the Committee has certainly worked for a very long time, and in the previous meeting, I have worked on this draft document. But at the same time, I have to say another thing: here was one argument for this code to harmonize it with trade unions, but at least the people's deputies who work and live in industrial regions know the state of union movement today. And the fact that trade union movements today go under employers is, I don't think, a big secret for anyone. Therefore, this is our position, and I would like to say it: no one doubts that a document should be accepted, but in the way it exists today, and in fact, it is more representative of employers' interests, I think it would not be worth accepting. Why? Because in my opinion, the laws are divided into two categories: people and anti-nationals. Those laws, which go in the interest of the vast majority of citizens, and they are employees, can be considered as popular. And those who today undermine the interests of the vast majority of citizens, I think, should not be admitted to Parliament. I agree that KZOT is not finished today. But in exchange for an imperfect KZOT, an imperfect new law, I think it's not right. I would like to say that I represent Luhansk today. There are many labour disputes in industrial regions. And, to my great regret, trade union committees that exist both in mines and in industries do not always seek the protection of the human interest of work. Therefore, I fully share the position that today it is necessary to set up such a working group and to involve trade union movements, not only those who loyally refer to employers, but also those who actively defend the interests of labour groups. I think that this constitution should be fulfilled because it concerns almost every Ukrainian citizen and this will affect our children and grandchildren in the future. And as far as this project is concerned, it will depend on much and how our State will live and develop. Today, I do not believe that such a draft should be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u110	Reva, Party of Regions. Konovaluk from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u111	Thank you, Your Honor Arsenia Petrovich. Dear colleagues, voters, indeed, today must take into account all our responsibility regarding the positive decision that the Supreme Council must make regarding the Labour Code. The vast majority of countries in the SND have the Labour Code, mostly in the modern world, and Europe has a modern employment relationship. So I'm sure it's an understanding for us that we need to get together and determine the right of people to have the right relationships that will give motivation. Yeah. Work to provide for your own income and increase the material standard of life of people. So, my fellow Members, I see that the vast majority of factions are convinced of this issue and a certain decision that concerns the support of the Ukrainian Labour Code in the first reading, based on the foundation and refinement in a certain way, our Parliament will be able to do today. So I urge everyone to join the party's position, the faction of the Party of Regions, so that we can give the Ukrainians a certain opportunity today to build their own lives, their own employment relationships, and ensure their own well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u112	Volenec. Gordien from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u113	Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today we are looking at the exact document, which is extremely important. And as my faction friends warned, he has major flaws. I would just like to stop because in the report and in the report, it was a levitative thing that a person would protect his rights. As I come out of the real day today, I can say for sure and frankly, no one will ever protect anything at this stage of society. I'm going to give you this example, or if I say the preamble, the biggest problem in Ukraine is that in our country, neither the Constitution nor the laws of Ukraine nor the conclusions of the National Security and Defence Committee of Ukraine were clear when they generalized part of the legislation that the greatest threat to Ukraine's national security was disregard for the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. When we accept this Labour Code, we can confidently say that even if it were gold, not with the flaws that our colleagues, my faction colleagues, had warned against, it would not have been fulfilled and would not have been done. I'm going to give you an example of everyone's flagrant disrespect for the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, even though on that example, when President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine, to his judgment, which he knows and wants there, sets one person free. And as an example of how legislation can work, how labor legislation can work in our country is an example of when Governor Jętjak, one of his party colleagues failed to stand still and the President of Ukraine ignored it. Today, I can only emphasize to you what work and social relations are all about in the country. No relationship, nothing. There is a slave work for the people. This work is in conditions where there is no job and a person agrees on any terms to work without any documents. Trying to do that, documenting these working relationships is incredibly, "well." But when there are no professional organizations, there is nothing, there is no importance, it is impossible to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. Is there a desire for a reporter and a coconspirator to speak? Please. No, no. The city of Kharkiv will see the dawn. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u115	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! We, as members of the Committee, and as the author of this document, respect the views of every national MP. And we are prepared to accept all the claims made today regarding the bill. But I want to remind you who's been listening or not listening. Three meetings were held by the people's deputies working on the project. At the outset, I said that we are a formal, formal author of this project. We just saved him so he wouldn't get in the basket after three calls. Therefore, what is stated in this bill. It has been prescribed by many in this room and by colleagues who have unfortunately not been included in the sixth assembly. It's not enough that all the people's deputies of the three conventions worked. All three sides of the social partnership worked. A large group of scientists worked. Specialists of the International Labour Organization, where we have been, both for each chapter and for each article, and for each letter, have reconciled the draft Labour Code with its ore rules. The reality is that there is simply a need to establish a new field of labour relations in relation to changing socio-economic relations. I understand the faction of the Company. They're probably doing the right thing. Better the Soviet Labour Code than the Labour Code related to the new socio-economic structure of the State. But I do not understand the attitude of our representatives of the coalition, which represents a completely different side, which is already linked to the socio-economic structure of our State. It won't be too bad if the current Labour Code doesn't get 226 votes and we throw it in the urn one more time. And our country will remain with the legislative field of employment totally out of line with the current socio-economic conditions. Once again, I would like to say that the desire of all the members of our committee working on this bill must be fulfilled by two things in this law. First. It's his protective function. And the second one is productive. It is understandable that if we overly defend the interests of one party, the other side will suffer. If we do not protect the employer's interests, then the production side will be affected. There will be no job creation, no production growth, no material benefits. Therefore, the desire to balance the protection and employment functions is respected in the bill. I ask you to support the law and the bill. If not, our authors will have to realize that we are not yet mature enough to understand the challenges we face in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u116	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, here is the Labour Code in my hands, 444 articles. If it is suggested to be rejected, I did not hear any comments here, except for Arsenius Petrovich. Reference was made to 139, referring to the first sentence, and what is further stated is: “...according to the conference of the labour team, the trade committee,” the following is said. Market transformations in Ukraine are irreversible. We like it -- we don't like it -- we don't want it -- the task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to minimize the negative social consequences of the market transformations of society that are taking place. There will be no such thing, and there will be no one side to this compromise to win. Trade unions will dictate to workers or employees, no, nothing like that, there should be a compromise between them. That is why we will need a law on social dialogue after the adoption of the Labour Code, without a social dialogue, Ukraine will be sentenced to constant examination, deliberation, and trial. How can a person protect himself? A man of work can defend himself legally, a man of work can protect himself and politically, having the right to strike and rally, to act in protest. I urge everyone to support the Labour Code. The thing is, any drag on the first, repeat the sixth and so on means failure. And then we're just going to have to apologize to the international community, to the international organization of work that's spent so much time on us. Here the head of one was thrown out, the book we were making another, and we were trying to please these parties. In that call for four months, one week a week at the Committee on Social Policy, some entered, others went in, others went out. We were trying to find consensus. Today, this consensus is the husband’s solution. The House must make a political decision, and the social and labour relations of the Ukrainian society must develop in a European way, in a civilised way. I ask you to support the first reading of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-15-m1.u118	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In view of the fact that the Yulia Tymoshenko Block has made a statement not to vote on the bill by the end of the day, I have serious doubts about what the bill will go through in the first reading. But we're going to vote for him. I would like to remind everyone that the Labour Code was adopted in 1971, even in Soviet power, and today outside 2008. We therefore need to consider this bill, and all the suggestions you have made can and should be taken into account in the second reading process. So, colleagues, I'm betting on the vote, the signal vote, the colleagues, the signal, I'm underlining. I ask everyone to decide on the support of the bill and the adoption of the first reading. Please vote. [[17:51:37]] For 210 There's only 16 votes left. Colleagues, please show by factions. Comrades, if we make this decision: now put this bill to a vote – that means it's going to fall successfully, eight years done, eight more will work. 109. Article 109 of the Rules provides that the Supreme Council of Ukraine may make a decision rather than be obliged to make a decision — two major differences, I say, in Odessa. So if you don't mind, at the faction leaders' meeting tomorrow, we'll be looking at a whole bunch of bills. Let's agree to vote on the bill. And in view of the fact that the whole process of consideration and discussion has passed, I'm going to put it to a vote on the 109th after the proper agreement. Well, if we don't have an agreement, then we'll finish by voting as predicted by the 109th article. Is there no objection to that? I won't. Thank you. Colleagues! Now for the vote on Bills 2228. I'm going back to Harkov's hero city. I have the first question to Ivan Grigorovich – half a second – John Grigorovich Kirilenko. Ivan Grigorovich, you have decided not to vote. This means that 22,228 is due to your decision not to vote. I can't put it. I can't put it. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I was trying to build the town of Kharkiv. Now let's go get some other drafts. [[Laughter]] I look so much like you want to vote for Mayor Harkoff's early election. Although this must be done because of the conduct of Kiev. We need to listen to Omelchenk in full procedure. Retracting this question will not solve it. So this week, we're going to look at it equally in any circumstances, colleagues. We're not going to look at it today. We're going to look at it tomorrow. Tomorrow's the day after tomorrow. There's nowhere to go. There is Parliament’s will, according to the 79th article of the draft. The decision of the Supreme Council is the decision of the committee. This is what Article 79 of the Local Self-Government Act requires, that is, we cannot usurp power. We should be willing to make a statement to that question. Not tomorrow, Ivan Grigorovich, are you voting tomorrow? You will. So we'll vote tomorrow. Colleagues, how do you see that we continue for another 15 minutes under the reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, guys, just a second. The Rules provide for the right of the Head to continue. You don't want to, we have to. That's why. There are two bills to be considered under the reduced procedure. So let's do something about social issues. Are we going to vote on social issues? I'm asking the faction of Ukraine. Because if we don't, we're going to fail. Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, will you vote? Turn on the microphone Vijacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko. You won't vote. The coalition has so far decided to abstain from voting until other issues are considered. Honorable National MPs. Please don't shut us down? I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
