ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please register in the session room. [[16:05:55]] Registered - 446 There were 446 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we're moving on in the daytime. Today we have a daily review of the Ukrainian President's proposal of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on adoption. I ask the reporter, Sizenko Yuri Pavlovich, Deputy Minister for Youth and Sports. Yuri Pavlovich, I have a question right away, and where is the minister of youth and sports?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u2	He was absent for good reason and entrusted me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u3	Go ahead, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u5	I don't think that's a question for him. This is a question that I'm going to bring to the attention of the President of Ukraine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u6	Thank you. Ukraine's Supreme Council adopted the Act on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on adoption was not signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. The amendments proposed by this law to article 211 of the Ukrainian Family Code and article 24 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act provide that adoption of a child who is a Ukrainian citizen cannot be carried out by a nonmarriage alien unless a foreigner is a relative of a child. In this regard, it should be noted that national adoptions do not provide for such restrictions. Under such circumstances, the imposition of the specified restriction on foreigners does not correspond to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is a party to Ukraine, under which States parties are obliged to ensure, when adopting the child's interests and application in the case of adoption of a child in another country, the same guarantees and standards applicable to adoption within the country, article 21, paragraph “c”. It should also be borne in mind that preparations are under way by the central authorities of the executive branch regarding Ukraine’s accession to the 1993 Hague Convention on Interstate Adoption, which provides for foreign citizens who adopt a national regime. The Ukrainian side is also negotiating bilateral adoption agreements with the Italian Republic and the State of Israel. The model project of such an agreement also provides for the establishment of a national regime for foreign adoptive parents. On the basis of the foregoing, it is proposed in chapter 1 of the first law, which was passed on to the President by article 1, paragraph 3, and article 2, to exclude. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u7	Five minutes of question-answer, please. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u8	Mr. Reporter, I will report as the author of the bill and representative of the committee. So that I will not rest in this story, it is that the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports, which, by the way, was also headed by Minister Paulenko, were our allies in this bill. We prepared this bill for the first reading. Nearly 400 people voted in the first reading, the absolute majority voted in the first reading, and suddenly after two or and a half years, the ministry stopped supporting national adoption, and started supporting foreigners, many of whom are unscrupulous enough to talk about in this part. What happened at the Ministry is that in a year and a half, the position of the President, who announced this year's national adoption and the position of the Supreme Council to the Ministry is not a guide, but you're proposing a different approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u9	I see. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, I will answer you this way. First, I led you to the president's position, the motives that forced him to veto this law. Second, with regard to the Ministry of Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, which worked with the project, and with the members of the profile committee, they prepared it here for introduction into the session hall, and the view was a hundred percent match. And we did everything we could to really do to make sure that the lonely foreign citizens didn't adopt our children and to understand that unfortunately, those cases that were known all over Ukraine, when paedophilia, when different cases were tragic, they didn't benefit from this question. So the position of the Ministry over many periods of time on this issue was stable. And we thought that on May 27, 2007, your predecessors on the fifth call made that decision, and we supported it. Sadly, though, the situation has recently been what was needed in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u10	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u11	And I think today all the chances are for the MPs to decide by voting how to make them better.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u12	Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u13	Thank you. Paul Mokchan, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Your Honor, two questions to you regarding these regulations. The age difference between an adoptive mother and a child cannot be more than 45 years. Why such a restriction? There are people of respectable age who take, adopt, and raise well at an important age. And the second. An adopted child who is a Ukrainian citizen cannot be made a foreigner who is not married except when a foreigner is a relative of a child. Well, that's kind of good, but we know how many cases when people are adopted far away from home, especially in the United States, Canada, America. You know how the state then forgot about these children. Anything predicted, any control then, what happens to those children adopted, what's their fate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u14	Dear Paul Mikhailovich, first of all, I would like to say that those proposals that were made in the law allowed this to be made by experts, especially the State Committee on Adoptions that worked, to investigate all positions and to understand what needs to be done, and age, and that single citizens should not adopt, and that was only according to the conclusions, expert conclusions, to do everything to make it better for the child. That's why the base was like that, and that's what they were based on. By the way, there was only a recent round-table session on the Supreme Council's profile committee, where the experts discussed these issues in detail and confirmed them once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u15	Valerius Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u16	Kamchatny, “Block of Timoshenko”, Kharkiv region. Don't you think that until we've joined, we haven't signed the Hague Convention and the corresponding bilateral agreements, we can't risk our children. Right now, as far as I know, the fate of 800 children is unknown at all and, in general, how this control is carried out by the fate of the children and, in particular, by Kruger's case, which you may want to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u17	Thank you for asking. You realize that our consular institutions, unfortunately, in countries like the United States, and France, cannot, as we would like to, track down the fate of our children, because there is an interference in family affairs that causes such negative moments in citizens of specific states with regard to our consular institutions. Well, nevertheless, our representatives are trying to get as much information as possible about what's going on with our children. And it is clear that the Hague Convention, which has not yet been ratified by Ukraine, and will be considered either sooner or later in the Supreme Council, will somehow place dots above the letter “and”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u18	Sergei Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u19	Thank you. Please tell the Honourable Reporter, did I rightly realize that the proposed legal restriction would apply only to those countries with which Ukraine did not have contracts that provided for the national adoption regime?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u20	In this case, you've seen the materials of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and they're saying that these restrictions proposed by the President may not apply to those states where we've already agreed and we'll be in national adoption to deal with these issues, so I think there's a golden environment that will allow us to solve all of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u21	Thank you. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u22	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u23	I ask that Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko report on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, the history of the bill is as follows. A few years ago, the Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth urged our committee to take urgent steps to keep at least some of our children’s lives and upbringing abroad. Along with the Ministry, we prepared a bill and submitted it on behalf of the National Deputies Tomenko and Elena Bondarenko for consideration by the Committee. We went through all the procedures, the committee unanimously, the Supreme Council supported this bill by an absolute majority. At the signing stage, the president’s lawyers advised him not to support one norm, as it were. Once again, one rule, because we are debating the rest of the norms that the President supports. This rule applies to the restriction on adoption by foreigners. We allowed a foreigner, even if he was not married, if he was a parent of a child, to adopt a Ukrainian child. If a foreigner or a foreigner were not married, we were forbidden to do so. We were forbidden to do so for two basic reasons. The first principle is the reason. Today, we do not have a bilateral agreement on adoption by any country that largely adopts our children. We have not ratified the International Hague Convention. So we don't even know what our children are in. The Ministry says delicately that it does not control 800 children. This is delicately said because I am absolutely convinced, a history of criminal cases, especially when pedophiles adopted our children, against whom open criminal cases, we learned 10 years later, shows that until we find out institutionally and legally what lies ahead for our children, we should not risk our children. That's why we didn't go in the Ukrainian way -- it's a common way. The absolute majority of donor countries have gone in a legal, or real, way to limit adoption by non-marriage couples. I can give you examples of those countries that have either legalized or adhered to it. Thus, the ban on adoption of children is not a family in Moldova, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Kyrgyzstan, Lithuania, Serbia, and so forth. In all lands either this is written in the law, or this is meant when, for example, the right to adopt a family that is tested and, for example, a single man. This, of course, favors the family, not the single man. Here the president's lawyers wrote that this bill, this restriction, is in conflict with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The 21 article clearly states: “The child’s best interests are taken into account first. ” We are clearly acting in accordance with this convention, our scientific expertise supports us, that by virtue of this norm, our children's interests are higher than any other warnings or possible nuances that arise. As soon as we, for example, have said to the deputy minister, will sign a bilateral agreement with Israel or with Italy, then, indeed, other legal relations will enter into force after adoption. Then we are. As long as there is no such bilateral agreement, the position of our committee, in which all factions are represented without exception, unanimously overcome the veto and support the President, who announced this year's national adoption. Because we listen daily on television and on the radio to protect our children, and in practice it looks like we're protecting foreigners who don't know where they're coming from and why they're adopting our children. Why don't you go on the Internet and see what you can see if you want to know? There are taxis, prices, go to the right structures. Price policy from $30,000 to $50,000 means, and it's actually going to be child trafficking in Ukraine. It is no longer of interest to go to the legal level to defend national adoption, and then, of course, we need to approve, ratify the international Hague Convention and go through bilateral agreements. We know who we are, which countries do it most actively, are the United States, Italy, Israel, Germany. Of course, bilateral agreements should be signed with these countries. Therefore, the proposal of a committee adopted unanimously: to overcome the veto, and this law should work in the interests of national adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u25	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. You from the rostrum, please don't go, we still have a question for you, this is the 129th Rules. Please sign up for a question-answer, five minutes. Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u26	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u27	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u28	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. When I feel the mood of the session room and the committee's report, and the unanimous decision, I think we're really going to make a consolidated and correct decision. I would like, Mikola Volodymyrovich, to support your thesis and suggest the following when you talk about national adoption. And perhaps we will then go this way, if one of the foreigners wants to become the father or mother of our child, let us adopt this foreigner in Ukraine, let him become a citizen, and then for health, he will be a national father or mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u29	I am Adam Ivanovich as if in the spirit of his speech I would support in the sense that we should today, in fact, not by statements, but by real work talk about the situation that has arisen, I will say very harshly, but truthfully, in the market for adoption of children. Because today, to your understanding, the market for adoption of children is in operation. There are appropriate informal institutions that, in the form of great charity for our children, come a foreigner, meet him at the airport, take his hand and continue to say: “Prescurant is like this.” They still went after this prescurant. What, we don't know this situation? So once again, I want to say that there is no need for day-to-day forums, no need to make a statement. We need to take a real look. I'm surprised, by the way, the position of the Attorney General. We said in the previous call that we don't need MPs, we need to go on the Internet and see how this procedure works. So I think there's a job for law enforcement, and we as MPs have to take the first step from the point of view of control.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u30	Reva, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u31	Please pass the word to Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u32	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear reporter, you know, in the adoption issue, in my opinion, Ukraine has never been orderly, there is no, and unfortunately, if such bills are prepared, there will not be. Because it is recalled that Mr. Paulenko was the minister at the time in matters of family, youth, and sports. As far as I know, this is the person who is entering the President's environment and the political power that represents the President today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please explain to me how the Law of Ukraine can be prepared by the Ministry of the Family, Youth and Sports, to be adopted by the Supreme Council in an editorial form that was proposed directly by Minister Yuri Pavlenko, and that is followed by a veto by the President of Ukraine. Could it not have been possible to settle all these issues and find out before we had quality laws? Then we will have order not only in adoption but also in other matters of concern to the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u34	Well, I'll tell you what. For me, too, I was asking a question, too, because, you know, we're in the previous composition of the Supreme Council, when I was chairman of the committee, we had everyone on the committee present without excluding the faction. By the way, out of 15 people, there were nine representatives of the Party of Regions who supported the Ministry’s position on family and youth issues and there was an absolute consensus in part of the legal guarantees that we would begin to control the situation. As it happened, the position changed later, I do not know. But I think that Parliament is on the same side as Parliament to correct both the President's lawyers and to reform the Ministry if it has taken the wrong step. Because a veto tool is not a tool to fight the President, it is a tool to protect the rules of law that we are convinced of and that Ukraine needs. So we will use this tool to protect national adoption and our interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u35	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u36	Dear Santa! Vladimir Yavorowski. Ukraine exports metals, sunflowers, Greeks, and others. That's good. Ukraine exports labor, more specifically, this is self-export, so to speak, in the form of our employees who work in every corner of the world. Ukraine exports children, or our future. To the border, until they cross the border, it's still our citizens, the state still has some kind of control over them, surveillance there and so on. After that, within 10 centimeters of this border, it's not our people, and we don't, the state loses control of them. Tell me, please, what are the mechanisms to make after that, there's a lot to talk about, and paedophilia, and so on, and baby organs, and so on. What kind of control is there? Is this just the product we're throwing away, forgive me for calling it goods, throwing away and forgetting it once and for all? And they will never return to Ukraine, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u37	Unfortunately, Vladimir Alexandrovich, you are far from right, since today’s mechanism is the next one. In the consular offices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example, after a year of adoption, the adoptive father himself provides written information about the condition of our children. I mean, you can imagine that if the situation isn't simple, the adoptionist will write that I'm beating a child from Ukraine, I'm torturing, I'm not feeding there, and so on. So in practice, this system of written reports on the state of rearing our children is wrong and immoral. But I don't want to blame our consulates, because you know how many people work there, the ability to actually check every case, every family, it won't really do that. I told you, there are about a thousand children who don't know where they are. Not the letters say they live well, but they do not know where they are. So, of course, we need to ratify the Hague Convention and look for clear mechanisms for who is authorized to do so, like us.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u38	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u39	So we have to go back, the world has come up with nothing better than the principles proposed at the Hague Convention. I mean, there are exclusively authorized international organizations. These organizations are checked out, they're registered, and then we know that not only do we have written reports, but we actually control every child that's abroad. And by the way, I'll tell you that foreigners, decent families of foreigners, are interested in this procedure. Because they do not want to come and fall into the corrupt scheme that exists in Ukraine. So I think we need to step by step today's Hague Bill and, of course, we need to make bilateral agreements with the United States, with Canada, with Israel, with Germany, where we need to severely prescribe the Ukrainian State over Ukrainian children living in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u40	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. The only comment about the United States. The United States does not consider signing a bilateral agreement. The only thing that can save us in this case is the ratification of the 1993 Hague Convention. Thus, it will be a real substitute for a bilateral agreement. As far as the bill is concerned, honourable colleagues, in fact, unfortunately, in Ukraine, there is often more talk of legalized trafficking in human beings. Because illegal adoption is legalized trafficking in human beings. And this is the terrible thing that we have to fight against, I hope that the adoption of this law, either with proposals or without proposals, including, will enable us to move forward in the transparency of this process. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the issue of supporting the Ukrainian President's proposal for the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on adoption. Forming the proposal itself, it is proposed in section 1 of the law, article 1, paragraph 3, and article 2 to be deleted. I would like to put to the vote the question of supporting the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[16:30:22]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on adoption. The bill is in general, please vote. Stop the vote, the cook requires the procedure. Please turn on the Welder microphone from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u41	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, as I understand the Rules, the next decision you should have proposed to Parliament is the rejection of the President's proposals, that is, the rejection of the veto, which requires 300 votes. If 300 votes are not cast, then, of course, the law is rejected, and the Constitutional Court’s conclusion on this point, Arsenija Petrovich, is very clear. There is no such concept as the adoption of a new law after the proposal of the President of Ukraine for a veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u42	Dear Roman Mikhajlovich, I appreciate your interpretation of the Rules, but I can tell you what the book “Temporary Rules” says: “If the proposal by the President of Ukraine is not supported by the Supreme Council, the vote is held on the re-adopted law as a whole”. I put to the vote the question of re-adopting the law. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk will ask. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u43	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Roman Mikhailovich, I didn't expect a word from you. [[Applause]] I did not expect you to forget the Rules or use the provisional Rules. That's the first one. The other one. It's a shame you don't represent the President's interests here, because you really represented your interests very well when you were a representative of the President and you owned the material. The president doesn't ask you to reject the bill. If he had asked him to reject the bill, your reaction would have been fair. The President amends the bill and the chairman makes it absolutely right in accordance with 129 and 130 articles of the Rules. Since we did not support the president's amendments, they are considered rejected. We should now not vote for a new edition, we are voting on a law that takes into account the amendments of the President that we have not calculated. If we don't get 300, it won't be accepted. That's why we need to get 300 votes, but it's all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I repeat, I would very much ask the national deputies, well those who wish to speak on the Rules, to read the Rules. The 130s determine this is the President's proposal according to the articles. If the proposals are not put to the vote, they are regarded as rejected according to Part 4. The chairman then put the bill to the vote as a whole, but no longer without the President's proposals in the paper in which Parliament voted at the time the bill was sent to the President. In order to adopt such a bill as a whole, we have to get 2/3 votes. Here's the whole procedure. What's new?Oh, my God! Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the bill as a whole. [[16:34:20]] For 387 Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the law “pro” – 387 was adopted in an editorial that was initially adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, without taking into account the relevant amendments. Please show by factions. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. 1144 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes. Reported to Bodnar Olga Borisovna, the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Please, Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u45	Dear Chief, honourable colleagues, fellow citizens, you and I have considered this bill on the first reading of January 15, 2008, and we have adopted it as a basis. I want to remind you what this is about. The bill provides for two new rewards. The Order of Freedom is intended to determine the special merit of citizens in establishing the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, the consolidation of Ukrainian society, the development of democracy, socio-economic and political reforms. As well as the “For a Saved Life” medal, to reward citizens for saving lives, active charity, humanism and other activities in the field of protection of citizens' health, preventing accidents with people. Two amendments were made in preparation for the second reading of the bill: the national deputy of Gordijenko and the national deputy of Kaskov. National MP Gordienko suggested that the Freedom Order be removed from the text of the bill at all. This proposal was rejected by the committee. The national deputy Kaskov proposed that the Order of Freedom not only be awarded special privileges, but also the outstanding merit of citizens in affirming the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, the promotion of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, human beings and citizens. Since the Order of Liberty is to become the highest order in Ukraine that has no degrees, it was counted by the committee. I would like to draw your attention to the strong debate on the Freedom Order that arose during the first reading of the bill, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following the adoption of the bill in the second reading, and to turn to the Commission of State Awards and Heraldics at the President of Ukraine, with the proposal to take a decision on the re-launching of the entire Ukrainian competition for the drafting of the Freedom Order sign, taking into account the observations and proposals made by the national deputies to the bill during its discussion. In its conclusion of February 27, the Chief Legal Authority recommends the adoption of a bill that takes into account its observations. In particular, offering that the Order of Liberty should be decorated with not outstanding and special merit, but especially outstanding. The Committee considers that the proposed formulation is not entirely successful, since the word “excellent” does not require further reinforcement with the word “especially”. In completing my speech, I want to stress once again that freedom is one of the highest values in human life. Similar rewards have long existed around the world: Finland, Estonia, Spain, Poland, the United States, and the Russian Federation. There are no warnings in any country that the Order of Liberty should take its place. Please support the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u46	Thank you, please sit down. Excuse me, okay, let's do this the way we want it. I thought it wasn't. Let's do some repairs. First amendment of the national MP, Gordonka. National Deputy Gordienko, you insist on your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u47	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u48	Please turn on the microphone and express yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u49	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable fellow MPs, in Ukraine, inflation, roads, prices are rising rapidly, and at this time no one is talking about it, and the President of Ukraine is introducing this bill as an urgent one. I would like to say today that perhaps the worse things are in the state, the more it is necessary to celebrate the heroes of our time. Let us each ask ourselves what will this order give to every citizen of Ukraine and Ukraine as a whole? The answer is nothing. Today I propose to all the members of the Supreme Council not to support this bill. I think only those who dream of being rewarded by this Order of Liberty will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u50	I'm sorry, but I didn't get the point of the amendment after your big talk. You write, “Article 7, paragraph 2 delete”. Is that the point of the amendment or not? What I'm looking at in a comparative table. That's right. Dear colleagues, Deputy Gordienko insists on supporting his amendment: delete the second paragraph of Article 7. I understand that this is actually the removal of the essence of this law. I would like to vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:40:14]] For 165 For 165, no decision is taken. National deputy of Kaskov. Your amendment is taken into account, I don't think there's any objection. Dear colleagues, no more amendments, all counted. In view of this, I am voting on the bill in the second reading and in general. Please vote in favour of Bill 1144. I declare a vote. [[16:40:52]] For 231 For 231, the decision is made. Please show by factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think this has done a great deal for ordinary Ukrainian citizens who will be rewarded with such orders. Let's move on, dear fellows. Draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Upper Sergei Petrovich, please. Second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u51	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Arsenija Petrovich, were adopted in May 2007 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading of the draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill gave rural, rural, city councils the right to decide to delegate their own powers to executive authorities concerning the issuance of documents of a permissive nature. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule at its meeting on January 16, 2008, considered the draft draft draft for the second reading. During the discussion of the matter, it was suggested that the bill should be rejected for such reasons. First of all, this bill does not define which rural, rural, urban council issues are to decide whether or not to transfer separate authorizations to executive bodies for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature. Because article 26 of the law to which amendments are made contains a comprehensive list of issues that are addressed exclusively in plenary meetings of rural, rural, urban councils, namely, the granting of permits for the special use of natural resources of local importance, the granting of accommodation in the village, the village, the city of new objects, the field of technological influence that includes the activity of the territory concerned, the transfer of objects from state to municipal property. These are paragraphs 36, 38 and 51. So giving the councils permission to delegate these listed powers to their executive bodies would, first of all, nullify their exclusiveness, provided for by law and, secondly, violate the rule of the council as a full representation of the community in the local self-government system. Secondly, with regard to the executive bodies of rural, rural, urban councils, they are also empowered to grant permission from other issues that are not covered by the exclusive powers of the council, namely: the harmonization of transit passenger transport routes and timetables, the granting of advertising permits, the registration of charters, health facilities, the state registration of local charities and funds, the registration of local citizens' associations, and so on. This is corresponding to one paragraph in article 27, paragraph 10 in article 30, paragraph 13 in article 30, paragraph “a” and others. The Committee believes that it would be more appropriate to propose appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. The results of the first reading of the bill were reversed by all committee members present. For your consideration, a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Ukrainian law amending article 26 of the Law on Local Self-Government is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u53	A comparative table to a second reading is also offered. We propose to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to article 54 of the People’s Deputy Pryživnova, Upper and Pilepisin. The amendment was rejected. Do these deputies insist on voting in favour of this amendment? Don't you insist? Don't insist. Now, here's the thing about the committee's proposals. I'll be honest with you, I didn't quite understand where she wasn't exactly in line with the Rules. As a result of the second reading of the bill, we cannot take such a decision as to cancel the results of the vote. So we can either reject the bill, or we can accept the bill, or we can send it for work. And you know, this kind of interpretation of our committee, innovation in lawmaking. So, first of all, I'm talking to committee leaders for the second time when you're proposing to Parliament a decision on first or second reading, it's desirable that this decision be based on the regulatory rules on the results of the first and second reading, not on the arbitrary interpretation of the Rules. There is an amendment made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich, to reject the draft law. Yuri Bogdanovich. Please turn on Yuri Bogdanovich's microphone, because I don't really understand the point of the amendment either. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, this is about a bill that should give local councils the right to delegate the right to make arbitrary decisions by doing so. However, such decisions include decisions relating to the exclusive competence of local councils. For example, permission to land, permission to place environmentally hazardous production, and so forth. So this bill itself cannot be accepted. That's why I suggested that this bill be rejected on the basis of the second reading. In principle, Arsenija Petrovich, not the principle of finer wording – it is important that the committee proposes that this bill be no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u56	I'm with you, Yuri Bogdanovich, I agree, but in the finesse, you know who's hiding: the uncle is with the tail and two horns. So I would ask that we have the right legal language. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u57	Still, we insist on revoking the previous decision of the Supreme Council. And the draft decree is in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u58	Once again, colleagues. In view of this, let the chairman rephrase the committee’s proposal. The committee's proposal is to reject the bill. Simpler. I have two choices. Option one: to put to the vote four paragraphs of article 115, if I am not mistaken, of the Rules or one paragraph, of rejecting the bill. One point is adopted: rejecting the bill. Is there no objection? None. I'm betting on a vote: to reject the bill and withdraw it accordingly. [[16:48:25]] For 263 Decision taken. The bill is rejected and withdrawn. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. 0936: Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster Skoubenko Volodymyr Petrovich Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the release of information on radioactive pollution zones]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u59	Dear National Deputies, in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 April last year, members of the Committee of Ecopolitics were assisted in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the publication of information on radioactive pollution zones, which I am presenting to you today at the commission of the Committee. What the proposed changes are. Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Areas Affected by Radioactive Pollution as a result of the Chernobyl Disaster states that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine provides the population with the necessary information on the radiation state of the territory. Article 2 of the Act and article 22 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster states that maps of radioactive pollution zones, the list of population sites assigned to those zones, are published in the central and local press for the general public. Sadly, laws do not reveal the mechanism for publishing this information and have never been printed in the press. The accumulation of new scientific data, the consequences of Chernobyl, the health of the affected population, and many other factors require further work to improve protection legislation. One such measure is the availability of information for the population about the level of radioactive pollution. The law proposes to amend the above-mentioned laws, which provide for the publication of information on radioactive pollution zones with the identification of the expected doses of public radiation, the publication of this information in public and regional printed media once every three years. This information refers to more than two thousand settlements, 12 areas of Ukraine, and radioactive pollution refers to virtually every area, every industrial center. All proposals for the bill are included. The Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection believes that proposals to a comparative table take fully into account the Ministry’s position on the order of publication of information on radioactive pollution and supports the draft draft draft bill. The bill is also accepted without notice by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee proposes to adopt the whole bill as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u60	Thank you. Colleagues, let's do some repairs. So the amendment of the people's deputy, Shershun, is taken into account. No one insists on voting on this amendment? Don't insist, it's fine. The amendment of national deputy Shershun to the second article is also included. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Another correction of Shershun. One more, and one more, and the last one, all of Chersun's repairs are accounted for. Don't we insist on voting on the amended committee? We don't insist. Thank you. Then we vote on the bill in the second reading and in general. I am voting on Bill 0936 in the second reading and in general, taking into account the relevant amendments taken into account by the committee. [[16:52:26]] For 418 We've got a little bit to go. We'll get to 450 soon. Dear colleagues, I wanted to consult, Alexander Sergiyovich, with you first. That's right. That's right! So there is this suggestion: in view of the fact that we have adopted the provisional Rules and that there is an indication that the head of the committee and the first deputy head of the Regulatory Committee are not to consider these issues, I think the Chamber will support the postponement of the consideration of these bills. There are two options: the first option -- we have to vote and remove them from the agenda, the second option is simply to postpone their consideration of issues after the decision of the Conciliation Council without a vote. Which one? Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk will conquer. Give me your word, Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u61	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. The options are both acceptable, with the exception of one, Arsenija Petrovich, you made a promise, I see that it has been fulfilled, on the Conciliation Board you stated: “In any event, the issue of question-day, the hour of questions to the government, the hour of questions to the government will be settled under any circumstances.” We would have had the opportunity to settle these conditions now, and I think it doesn't matter what we're making, we can make changes to the provisional Rules. I can't see anything. But if the authors insist on moving, even if we now make a decision and agree on the transfer, I would ask again, under any circumstances, tomorrow, for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, an hour of questions to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u62	I'll ask Saz's colleague to turn on the microphone, please, and we'll make a decision with you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, revered Adam Ivanovich! Well, I wanted to remind Adam Ivanovich that in that bill on the Supreme Council Rules, which was proposed by the committee and which was unanimously supported, there was a procedure for holding an hour of answers and questions to the government. With regard to the possibility of reviewing the bill now and amending the Rules temporarily, there is, above all, no formal legal possibility, as Arsenija Petrovich often says. So I'd like to take these bills off the table right now, two bills to amend the Rules: this is 1486 and 2053. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u64	Thank you, colleagues. And if I tell you. Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u65	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u66	I'm sorry. I have to kick your ass 'cause it's starting again. And then we write it down. We'll sign up for three minutes. Because yes, you give one, then the other, then the other. Please sign up, colleagues. Zybenko's on now, turn on Zibenko's microphone, and the other one's on record for three minutes. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u67	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I wanted even if we did not consider the actual changes to the Rules today, but to express one thought that we should think about very much. I emphasize, it's not a political opinion at all, it's a professional opinion. What am I talking about? We accepted our time of changes to the Rules to which we were supposed to spend an hour of government instead of a Government Day. Believe me, the person who led the committee during the two calls, I want to say that a government day is a more professional form of control over the implementation of current legislation. Because the Supreme Council takes a decision in advance, determines the subject, the subject matter, takes the result of the Government's Day of Decision and then controls it. Because, you know, the time of government is going to be a kind of KWN: you're a fool, he says, from that sound. Just professionally, it's much better than a government day than an hour of government, believe me, let's think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u68	Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u69	I'd like to give the word to my colleague, Sasu. He doesn't seem to have said everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u70	Sergei Volodymyrovich Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that there are requirements for the 38th article of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, where an hour of answers and questions to the government is foreseen. But there is some kind of conflict in our legislation, because the 28th article of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy has remained in the form that was before and there is a Government Day. That's why I think we're going to have to cancel this coalition in some way in our legislation and keep moving. And in this case, stop considering the issue and put my motion for a vote on the motion to withdraw the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u72	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u73	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The questions that are proposed to be addressed in these two draft regulations can be easily addressed to the category of issues defined by the Constitution, in particular in article 92, paragraph 21, as such, as “Organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. I am referring to this article because the Constitution determines that these are issues that are defined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. This position has been our faction for many years and, by the way, it was confirmed by a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Therefore, decisions on these matters can be made, but only in the order of adoption of the law, not in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u74	Yuri Haydayav.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u75	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u76	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u77	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Roman Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, but I have to go back into conflict with you. By supporting you in saying that it must be a law, if it is governed by a decision, a final decision, not a reasonable decision by the Constitutional Court, I'll allow myself to say that, we've talked about this a lot, but we have to use it at the expense of some regulatory document. We are living today at the expense of the Provisional Rules, which, I am sure, will serve us well in the work and today’s vote shows this. And we have every reason today in the Provisional Rules to make a statement about an hour of government questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u78	Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u79	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I am here to support the point of view of Adam Ivanovich regarding the fact that the Provisional Rules serve well today to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and can serve for a very long time. And in this context, I would like to say that the issues raised are not just relevant, they are issues that have been discussed many times in this room and in the Conciliation Councils and during political consultations of factions leaders. The question of resolving the procedure for the implementation of opposition rights in the Supreme Council of Ukraine was also the subject of an understanding protocol between the faction leaders during our parliamentary crisis. Hourly questions to the government require a necessary technological solution. I want to say that what concerns the activity of the opposition is in line with the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted in January this year, worked with the Chief Legal Authority and received support from the faction leaders. I'd like us to consider this today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to answer the questions of our fellow national deputies regarding tomorrow's agenda. Tomorrow’s agenda is designed according to a calendar plan approved by most national deputies. And tomorrow the first question of order of the day questions to the government, in accordance with article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. As for the formating of this hour of questions to the government, we can either vote it, or the chairman of the plenary session, 20 minutes of the Prime Minister's speech and 40 minutes of the question-answer. So we're doing the exact norm of the law, and as we agreed, that's how we move. As for the day asked to the government, we have a conflict of law. The law, whether it's about committees or whether it's about the status of a national MP, I can't now mention in what, the status law, probably the national MP, there's a government day. But in view of the fact that the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers has been adopted after its entry into force, yes, but hypothetically we can say that there is a primacy of the Law “On the Cabinet of Ministers” over the rules of the Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy”. So, colleagues, I'm addressing, Alexander Sergiyovich, Alexander Sergiyovich, and I'll also contact you with Sergey Volodymyrovich. There is such an offer that you will likely be wisely supported. We've declared several times that we're defending the rights of the opposition, declared? They've declared it. Declarations to be carried out? You should. The same story regarding the implementation of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. A direct rule of the law is written down? Recorded. Do we have to regulate the legal and regulatory way? You should. I suggest the next approach. Let's vote on the basis of these two bills and then you change the word "regulatory" to "temporary regulation" already in the second reading and we will therefore work and make changes. It's going to be, if you do it, you're going to be very wise colleagues. Is it supported? I'm betting, half a second, I'm betting on the vote, first, on the reduced procedure of 1486 and 2053. That's the first one. I have to put it in a nutshell. Let's put it on. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[17:03:12]] For 168 Now for the brief report. I would like a very brief report. Alexander Sergiyovich, you insist on a bill report. Well, you should say two words. Alexander Volodymyrovich and Alexander Sergiyovich As amended by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u81	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The proposal that has now been made for us to adopt the draft amendments to the provisional Rules on a short-term basis and to limit the activities of the opposition and those that are actually regulated and already applied in this room where the issue of quota resolution in the formation of committees is concerned, in the form of guidance on the organization of work in the session room on the right to speak, on the right to co-report and also on the question of the “hour of questions to the government” is also integrated into this project. I'd like us to support our first reading right now. And if there is a question not only to change one word into a temporary rule, but if there are essentially questions, then we could have a fruitful second reading and a decision. So that we can not only implement our political agreements, but also those recommendations that make our Ukrainian Parliament a model of democracy and for Europe. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u82	Thank you. Please. Sergey Volodymyrovich, are you insisting? Turn on Sergei Volodymyrovich's microphone, please, Sasu. Now. Alexander Sergiyovich, this is your second bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Well, we can talk about different things right now, the question of relevance, but there are rules of the Rules that predict that we can now consider certain normative acts. There is now no legal act that we can make changes to which our colleagues propose to change. It is therefore necessary to replace the draft law previously introduced, the draft regulation amending the provisional Regulation, to include it in the agenda and to consider the procedure provided for in the Rules. There's no other choice. Well, why are we making up a bike now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u84	There's another option. I announced it. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Is there a requirement to register? Sign in two for two, two for "against". And Sass has already spoken from the committee. You're on the next bill. Alexander Sergiyovich, you're on the next bill. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u85	Please give the word to Alexander Sergeevich Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u86	The word of Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u87	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to take this matter seriously. The fact is that Sergey Vladimirovich Sas is indeed right under the Rules. But this is the case in which we could go to the adoption of documents that have been considered and approved by all, including the Standing Committee. On this issue, the 57 changes that have been made in the Rules only improve our activities and have not led to any contradiction in its approval of these changes. It would therefore be logical to support Arsenia Petrovich in that regard and to consider the basis of the matter, and then to amend the provisional Rules accordingly, and to vote in general, both on the first and on the second law to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u88	Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u89	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u90	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u91	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry to say this, but this is really the moment of truth that we should consider. I fully support Arsenija Petrovich, who stressed that the coalition had repeatedly promised, guaranteed, and talked about the opposition having legislative rights. It was about the law, it was about other moments and promises. To the law away. There is a possibility and it's being implemented today in that draft decision that we're discussing. And I think it's right that we don't need a separate Opposition Act, an opposition, it's better to consider something in the law, if it's law, or just in the Rules, if it's only adopted by the Supreme Council's decree. This is one moment. One second. Please look at the names of the authors of this bill. This is Alexander Lavrinovich and Olena Lukas. Perhaps there are no doubts or questions about their professional training. These are really people who understand very well what they were writing about and what they are proposing. Along with the fact that I'm a member of a profile committee, I have to agree with what Sass said, what he was saying, what certain nuances there are. But these certain nuances do not deprive us of the opportunity to accept it. The more we accept it, the more it is not yet final, the more we accept it in the first reading and put the dot in place, and fulfill those long - term promises that have already been made in this session hall for more than a year, and the more we call for the responsibility of opposition, its right, its commitment, its capabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u92	Valerius Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u93	Stonehead, Block of Timoshenko. “The Plato is my friend, but the truth is more precious.” So I would like to convey the word to my colleague, Saz, so that he can explain once again to our colleagues why we cannot change what is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u94	Please, the word of Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues and distinguished Adam Ivanovich, I wanted to remind you of such a thing that we have considered a bill of opposition to the committee meeting and have almost unanimously decided to send this bill for further work. With regard to spending an hour of answers to the government, this is the situation. There are two bills that are unanimously supported by our committee on equal rights of opposition and coalition when it comes to the issue of an hour of answers for the government; and there is a bill submitted by our opposition colleagues. So today there are two norms, two bills that need to be considered. So I propose that we, after all, abide by the rules of the Rules, invite our colleagues to replace previously distributed drafts with appropriate legislation. We'll look at them on the committee. We have been violating the procedure from the point of view that the committee has not considered the bills that the provisional Rules are now being proposed. Bills will be introduced, a committee will consider, a decision will be made, a report will be made, a report will be made, and all issues will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u96	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, I still wanted us not to move from a sick head to a healthy one. No one has ever heard of the leaders of the coalition or of any member of the coalition that we have renounced our public promises, of the norms that are provided for in our coalition agreement, of the eventually signatures that we have placed in the protocol of understanding, which still foresees that amendments to the Rules of Opposition will be proposed for consideration by Parliament. And I think that in that case, if this matter is voted on, all the votes of the coalition will be devoted to such a bill without exception. The other thing that I'm very aware of is that the drafters of the bill couldn't predict what happened was force majeure. Therefore, there is no need to do anything tragic. Suggest amendments to the provisional Rules. I think it can be done by the end of the day and tomorrow by the agreement of the session room to include this issue as one of the first in the agenda. And there's no tragedy here, but to make such a precedent when the Supreme Council makes changes to an existing legal act, I think that's all an absolute absurdity for the Supreme Council, because that's going to have absolutely negative consequences, because someone would want to take advantage of this kind of practice. In order to avoid it, we understand that it is an exclusively technical obstacle to the adoption of a proven legislative act that can be overcome in a fairly simple and fast time. As far as I'm concerned, there's nothing difficult about it -- ask the committee to get together again, I think the committee, because it's in full stock here, it's going to take a quick look at it, and tomorrow we can get to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, can we go back again? The first political element. Politically, everyone has declared the need to protect the rights of the opposition. Opposition must be protected because there are different situations. So I would like to ask that we listen to the point of the proposal. Alexander Sergiyovich, half a second, let's finish. Sergey Volodymyrovich, don't shout, please, I'll never interrupt you. Now, here's a proposition: we have a regulation to make changes to the Rules. Let us imagine that we are now voting in the first reading, and in the second reading we are replacing the word “regulatory” with the word “temporary Rules”. Are we breaking the procedure? We're not violating it because we're making changes to a valid act. The adoption as a basis does not create legal consequences, except for the Supreme Council to finalize this act, taking into account the text of the ruling that I am about to make. And I'm going to say that the committee is going to redraft the text of the regulation for the second reading, given that the provisional rules are adopted. Period. You will meet on the committee, you will change the word "regulatory" to "temporary" and we will adopt this bill. And if we don't accept the bill, let's pull it, let's deflect it. I propose, colleagues, 14, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, please, let's support this bill as a basis. Based on the base. You're working on the committee. If you don’t like something, you won’t vote on the second reading. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance. So let's do the next thing. Let us immediately put this in the first reading, and in the second reading, let us replace the words “Temporary Rules” with the words “Temporary Rules”. Everything and the whole story. You can't. You can't. If you don’t want to, of course you can’t. Let's do this procedure, please. Sign up, three minutes. You don't want to defend the opposition, that's all. Sergei Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear colleagues! We have a constitutional norm -- a coalition of MP factions. We have nowhere in the law to say what “parliamentary opposition” is. Therefore, the Lithuanian bloc is ready to support the faction if the authors of the decrees make changes in accordance with the current Constitution and stand by the legal technique, and write that factions that do not belong to the parliamentary coalition. Then we'll vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u100	Stoyan. Maybe you'll pass the word, Lavrinovich asks there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u101	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna say it myself, believe me. Chairman, we had many examples when we took the decision as a basis, then added the word and accepted it in the second reading. You now have every reason and every right to do so. Now we're voting in the first reading, and you're saying that, and now I'm presiding or I'm entering as Stoyan right now, I'm saying, "let's add the word "temporary Rules" and we're voting in general. And then we solve all the questions. And why pull it so that, because of a word, we don't change the essence of the law, we just change the name. Let us now vote on the provisional Rules, enter that word and everything will be fine, but this does not change the substance of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u102	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, it is not about changing the word “Regulation” to the term “temporary Rules”. It doesn't give us anything. The rights of opposition can only be guaranteed in the context of the regulated organization and order of operations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a category of issues that, according to article 92, paragraph 21, according to the Constitutional Court’s interpretation, can be decided solely by the adoption of the law, not by the decision, whether by the provisional Rules or by the Rules. Moreover, the law was adopted in the face of our faction’s position, where it is determined that this can be done in the Rules, but this law has not yet taken effect. And I highly doubt that he will take effect. Therefore, please introduce a draft law on the rights of the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u104	Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u105	I think so. Sergei Volodymyrovich! Sass! I think we need to listen to Sas again, and let him explain one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Well, basically, a colleague of Greenewecki said that we don't have a settled issue of opposition today. I will remind my colleagues that we have adopted in the first reading the Law on Opposition of Ukraine, and today it is under consideration by the Supreme Council. So you can work in that direction. With regard to specific bills, I would like to point out once again that Bill 1486 sets out an hour of questions for the government, followed by a draft amendment to the Rules, which also contains a procedure that is supported and implemented by a regulatory committee. And there's a whole bunch of national MPs -- representatives and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u107	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u108	Thank you. the representatives of different factions. In this case, therefore, it is only necessary to follow procedure, and the procedure provides for a report, a report. In this case, we have nothing to consider. I'd like to take that into account. Why should we, and why should we now violate the Rules, the provisional one that is today? What's the point? Let them substitute and we'll look at all these bills. But, honourable colleagues, Bill 1486, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the committee's consideration and almost unanimously decided to send him over for further work. There are a lot of problems that need to be solved, sat down, looked at, and didn't have to vote now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u109	Replica, Grenevetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u110	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, your honor, we have many laws adopted in the first reading, but they remain as draft laws. So I would like to be clear about the legislation and the constitutional norm that has been drawn up. What is a parliamentary coalition, how it's created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u111	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u112	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry I'm forced to discuss today with those who really understand what the Rules are. But, Sergey Volodymyrovich, we made a decision, if I'm not mistaken, 168 votes in favour of having a brief discussion. And by the abbreviated procedure, you were able to speak as a co-reporter and you were speaking. No one broke anything. The bill is being discussed by a reduced procedure, as decided by the Supreme Council, this is one moment. The second, the main point, Arseni Petrovich, is not once in the chairman's right, and you have absolutely every reason to exercise this right, which, by calling Bill 1486, you are talking about adopting a decree amending the provisional Rules. If we vote, it will change the provisional Rules. There's absolutely nothing wrong here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, I propose to return to the proposal that was put forward for the first time. So we've discussed the bill, I'm putting the vote on the ground. We'll send it to the committee. You'll be working on the committee. I ask that these discussions, interpretations, the rules' own interpretations remain outside the parliamentary rostrum. Once again, I want to say that we're on our way to the Rules. The adoption of the bill as a basis will allow it to be redrafted. The report and the report have already taken place under a reduced procedure. I'd like to ask you to follow the transcript. I'm putting Bill 1486 on the ground. [[17:22:11]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Please show by factions. Are we going to do the same by “the hour of questions by government”? Come on. Once that position, let's go. I'm betting on the vote on Bill 2053, on an hour of questions to the government. But there's a discussion to be made. Stop voting so they won't talk about us breaking the procedure again. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, on the rostrum. It's hard for me to understand why it's not a vote, except something you don't want to take.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u114	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished representatives of the coalition! Frankly, we cannot understand you: when you speak in your statement about your right to speak, and we have promised you, and we support you in voting on this matter, and when the question is put to the vote, you do not. Then either you say other things publicly or you do what you say, or you get a split personality. We don't know where you are after all. Now for Bill 2053. I think that Sergey Vladimirović will agree with me in this case that, when we consider this bill on the committee, we have come to the unanimous view that it can be put to the room and voted in the room. Now with regard to the voting procedure, here I fully support Adam Ivanovich, Arsenija Petrovich, that you have the right to present today on your behalf, and given that the drafters of the bill are in the room and agree with that, change the title “temporary regulation” to “Regulation”. There will be no violation of the Rules or other legislation. The Chamber has the right to take a decision on this matter. Moreover, once again, when we considered it on the Committee, we did not have any contradictions, and the Committee unanimously decided to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u115	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please sit down. The narrator is not foreseen under this bill. Dear colleagues, please register two-for, two-again. Polječenko Volodimir Avrumovic – "for". By accident, they pressed. Gordijenko, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u116	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u117	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u118	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the bill that we are currently considering is linked to that bill that we were just discussing. The difference is that the previous bill, in fact, was not supported by the decision of the profiling committee, but, more specifically, was aimed at further development, and there was talk, once again, of the questions of the government, and of the parliamentary opposition. In this bill, which we are currently considering, 2053, to amend the provisional Supreme Council Rules for Hours of Questions to the Government. We made a decision on the profile committee to support this bill, and this decision was supported by representatives of all factions. The next moment. I remind you that we have already addressed this problem once in the session room and tried to solve it at the beginning of the second session of this call. The profile committee also supported, came up with this proposal, but in the session room it wasn't supported and let's call things our names. Why is it not supported by the amendment bill, which deals with an hour of questions to the government? The answer is very and very simple, those who have formed the Cabinet of Ministers simply do not want the government to be able to communicate with the national deputies to whom it is accountable and to whom it is subject. Here's a simple, so to speak, answer that lies on the surface. Because some people don't seem to be settled, so never will the Cabinet of Ministers appear in the session room with an hour of questions. But we have confidence that we will accept, all the more so, that tomorrow is the hour of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u119	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u120	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, when there is a matter of government, the government tells how it works for the benefit of the people. This is true in many lands. The only thing is that the position of the Lithuanian Block as well as what Greenewecko said is determined by the wording. In this case, as you say, Arseni Petrovich, someone may be hidden behind trifles. In this case, we're very interested in, in this case, the hour of questions about factions that didn't join the coalition to the government or the opposition to the government? I'd like to ask, unfortunately, I didn't have the opportunity to ask Alexander Sergiyovich, but he raises his hand, maybe he would literally say five seconds. I understand what's going on, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u121	What I'm seeing here is I don't see the distinction between opposition and coalition, so there's no difference in the standards proposed. Turn on the microphone, please, Alexander Sergiyovich Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u122	Dear colleagues! That bill, which we had previously considered, suggested that the “year of questioning before the government” was only a matter for the opposition. And what was the fundamental difference, and that would be logical, because we counted by time, if a coalition were to do so, we could practically turn this hour of questioning into just some farce that no one would care about. As for draft regulation 2053, which is, there are no divisions, there can be both coalition and opposition. It would be logical to vote on the first reading and then to take the basis, and then to make changes on this item, and to vote on it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u123	Alexander Sergiyovich, can you ask the question, "after this point," which are you talking about to make me realize? You said "after this point," do you mean replacing the word "regulatory" with "temporary regulation" or replacing the point of opposition of the coalition?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u124	Nope. Arsenius Petrovich, there is a point, I don't remember how he's numbered, but when it comes to "questions to the government are asked by non-committal factions".
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u125	I can't find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u126	There's a point.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u127	I've been watching, it's not here, Alexander Sergiyovich. That's not 2053. Let's take another look, please. Sergei Volodymyrovich, I don't see, you may know the bill, but I think it was ruled out. Sasu microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u128	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, one wise man said that “fear what is being done quickly”. Today we have done such a bear service to our opposition colleagues when we have withdrawn a bill that has been tabled on the rights of the opposition. I don't think that's quite right. Arsenius Petrovich, either you or me. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the point is that the bill, as said by Alexander Sergiyovich, who had already been removed from consideration because he had gained only 200 votes in support, was where the rights of opposition were written, they had the right to bet and they were exclusive. I don't think that's quite right, because the government answers to all the MPs before the Supreme Council for questions. In this bill, which is really supported and unanimously by our committee, there's a procedure that's written and it's absolutely important because it changes the whole content of the bill. When it comes to government from all the MPs, then from the MPs, absolutely on a proportional and equal terms. And that's why the committee unanimously adopted this bill. So in this case, we're dealing with this situation. I would like people to vote on this matter knowingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, I've finally found where it's written. Please read the second page of the amendment to article 225, paragraph 7. Within the time allocated for questions to other cabinet members, to other cabinet members, and not to the Prime Minister, representatives of the MPs are given equal opportunity to ask the same number of lips and to issue written questions. But no more than 5 questions from the MP factions that are part of the coalition and no more than 5 questions from the MP factions that are not part of the coalition. Do you understand that there is no word "opposition," half fair almost, or justly? Mikhail Vasilovich, are you insisting? Turn on the word Chechtov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u130	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I don't think we should insult the coalition, they have very many questions, but here, let's say, a minority is asking the Cabinet of Ministers, and let the coalition ask the Secretariat of the President half an hour, there are a lot of questions. I think it would be just as interesting for the country to hear the answers and the questions, yes. So most people don't have to take offense either, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over, I am addressing all colleagues, so I understand that there is no longer such opposition to proceed as follows, we are voting 2053 on the basis, after we vote on the basis, I am amending the word “Regulation” to replace the word “temporary Rules” and in paragraph 1 of the decision to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council to replace the amendments to the provisional Rules of the Supreme Council adopted on Tuesday. Roman Mikhailovich, don't say we don't vote because we have to vote for it. Dear colleagues, I'm laying the groundwork for the 2053 vote on the amendment to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules. [[17:33:33]] For 213 The decision is not taken. At least we've talked, one good thing. Please show by factions. So, comrades, we defend opposition when we're in opposition and we think about power when we're in power, we don't think about opposition. It's a freebie. Let's go to Bill 2092. Please, Javorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. I've already started the procedure, I've already announced it. Please show by factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u132	We talked, now let's work. Dear colleagues, it's not a conflict document, I'm sure. We've been working on it. What are you talking about? Briefly, I'll get to know you. Over the years, the Supreme Council has adopted about 5, 6, 7, and sometimes 10 decrees to mark the largest in the country’s memory. Very often, there were conflicts in Parliament. I just want to remind you that there was a decree at that time not to mark the century of the great lawyer General Grigornek, when the ruling for the century had not passed since the birth of the great Ukrainian writer John Bagrian, and of the political actor. In order to move away from this conflict situation, and also in order not to go back and avoid it every time, I would give it, in a word, to such a legislative net, then we decided and agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers, and with the Chief of the Supreme Council, and he supported us, to take one fundamental, fundamental decision on this issue. The work that I'm offering you, the final product that I'm proposing to you, is the product that the entire committee on culture and spirituality, which I have the honour to lead, has been working on. Believe me, this job was very difficult and very difficult. We have addressed all the committees literally. And through the committees, to all the national deputies with the request that they make their proposals. Well, unfortunately, as is often the case, few have responded to our offer. Although the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on State Building and Local Authorities, and other committees have made proposals. I want to remind you that our Ukrainian history with you is, of course, very rich, very rich, and sometimes, I would say, even overcrowded and outstanding facts of our history, as well as of the world's outstanding figures that worked in it. Because of this, of course, the sieve through which we had to miss the entire long series of memorable dates that we had, of course, taken him to the minimum. I also want to remind the people's deputies that this decision, if it is adopted, and I want to believe that it will be adopted today, is not the final document, because after this decision, the Cabinet of Ministers has to take its decision, which will also have appropriate funding, and appropriate measures. Because of this, Arsenija Petrovich, I would very much like, because there might still be proposals from the people's deputies and that's their right, and no one has the right to take them out, I think we could do it in this way: vote first, let's say, on the basis of this document, and then add them through, let's say, our protocol commission or something else to add those names, but vote for each of them. Because we've had to give up, let's say we can give up what is such a town in Western Ukraine, which is 650 years old. The famous town where there used to be this triangle, where the Chermšina worked, where Basil Stefanik worked and so on. How can we give up with you from the Jubilee of the City of Chernivets? The city, indeed, which gave us much not only gave us the Head of the Supreme Council but also gave us something to do with the city of Chernivci. Or how we can refuse to celebrate the Jubilee of the Hehtman capital of the famous Deaf is a city the nation can be proud of. We just need to set up normal tourism, and this city can literally flourish. And together with the Construction Committee, we held a joint meeting there, and we accepted that approval. Because I still want to say that we're a little late because of the Supreme Council, and actually we're already with you, give it a word, but we've already missed Anton Makarenko's Jubilee, our distinguished teacher, we've already missed Kiril Rosemowski's Jubilee, the last hetman of the Left Bank Ukraine and the first president of the Russian Academy of Sciences, and I'm not saying anything about his own brother, Rosumovski, the brilliant Ukrainian singer and lover of the queen, among other things, by the way, I would say. I also want to say that we've already missed the Jubilee of Stephen Oilynik, our distinguished Ukrainian humorist, who, even in those years, as it were, kept the nation at a certain level. The president issued a decree in connection with the Jubilee of Olesia Potter, and these celebrations are still under way. As a result, as I conclude, I would like to remind you once again that in this list there is also the jubilee of the National Film Studio by Alexander Long, there are 225 years of the establishment of the city of Sevastopol. This is, by the way, Leonid Gracch introduced this bill, and we brought him here in the same way and we're convinced that this should be marked. And there's 140 years from the day of the foundation of Education -- that's what only the Ukrainian nation has, and in fact there's no one else. How can we fail to observe, say, the Jubilee of the Crimean Symphony Orchestra? I'm saying that there's no ideology here, there's just famous people and famous facts. 75 years of the establishment of the Kharkiv academic Russian theater called Pushkina. That is why we offer to accept this document, to accept it as a basis. I just want to add that the committee supported it after the document was filed with the Supreme Council. There's been a proposal from National Deputy Kendzior to mark the 600th anniversary, I emphasize 550, I'm sorry, 550 years of the Lviv Veterinary Institute. It's, you know. Rejoicing, boasting at such an age may not be the case. Because, let's say, let's not let Polo get offended, but let's say we turned down the "Politehu" celebration. We think it's a local holiday, it needs to be carried out within the institution itself, or within, say, Kiev, because it's all-U.S. level there, and it's hardly appropriate to finance. But I'm reporting to you the position of our committee. And of course, we've missed and apologized, and we're proposing now to introduce the 90th anniversary of Patton, the president of the Academy of Sciences, and I think that this person deserves to be really celebrated. That's why I'm finishing, Arsenija Petrovich, and I suggest we take this as a basis, and then, if we really missed something in the MPs, then we ask them to complete it, add it and pass it on to the Cabinet of Ministers, let them properly and properly celebrate the Jubilees that are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're about to vote, half a second. We did not vote in favour of the shortened procedure. I'm asking three minutes of questions. Sign up for questions, please. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u134	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Aleksandrovich, with all due respect for your humanitarian, humanitarian mission, which you have been carrying and serving in Parliament for many years, is a serious observation, it is principled. And it's not about the content of your bill, it's about the draft decision about who's being marked, what's obviously being observed, you're probably right, you're a specialist, it's about the approach methodology. You remember well that when the Supreme Council takes a decision to commemorate a person or an event, we do not just decide to mark a dot, the Head of the Supreme Council. With this draft decision, you give another branch of power, understand this, the right to formulate how to celebrate a holiday, how to celebrate one or the other, and so on, it's a prerogative, and it's a mission to Parliament as the highest representative authority in Ukraine. And the Cabinet of Ministers has to do what they do. Those financials there are some positions, creating a museum and all that, you understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u135	Dear Mr. Zarubinsky, my respect for you as a professor and absolutely firm, but however unpleasant it may be for me, I am prepared to deny you. That's why I'm here to deny it. You yourself know that there are two subjects who are able to make these decisions: either the President issues his decree, as he did with the 90th anniversary of Olesia Potter, or the Supreme Council. But those decisions are pure, forgive me, political. We are. Here, as representatives of the Ukrainian people, we say to the government: please, we think it's necessary to celebrate a date like this. As a result, we can tell each of these personnel what to do. Let's say there are figures that are much larger and are, let's say, the same. Let's say there's a town called Snitin, which I've been talking about for 650 years. Let the Cabinet of Ministers decide. Something is going to be, let's say, financed from the district budget, something maybe from the district, something from the Cabinet of Ministers. Because of that. Please understand, Oleg, to make one of our determinations that, let's say, spend the evenings and all that, I'm sure it'll be foolish. Best thing I'm saying is, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u136	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u137	We say by this decree to the Cabinet of Ministers: here's a list of dates that the Supreme Council thinks should be decided on an all-Ukrainian level. In general, you are a very wise man and I thank you very much for your advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u138	Peter Hassuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u139	Dear Vladimir Alexandrovich, I'd like to hear your opinion on the Blacks. You'll be recommending Kabmina from a committee at the state level or. I just wanted to hear how you're, how you're going to apply to Kabmin 600 years of our town of Chernivci.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u140	Mr. Peter, calm down. We'll serve as best we can. This is the great Jubilee of this city. This is the district center. It's a colossal cultural center. And, if you'll excuse me, this is the center of the country. We've forgotten once that it's Bukovina, we're the Cherniewec region and we're already here. And with a wonderful story and all that. Because of this, I am convinced that this will be marked at the highest level of government. It's not my authority to speak or the President will come or the President will come, but we'll celebrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u141	What's more, I think it's a pan-European level.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u142	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u143	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u144	Believe me, trust Yatzenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u145	Dear colleagues! Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please, Adam Ivanovich, you know what. And Naydenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u146	Najonov's been handed over. Thank you. Dear colleagues, to be honest with you, to approach this consideration, a little differently, it was my offer on one of the agreeing councils. Which, in fact, we, each of us, by defending one or the other interests of a working group or city, constantly make decisions about one or the other wedding dates. And I suggested that it's not a royal matter, not a Supreme Council should make a decision to celebrate the 75th anniversary of a working group. What's more, in each of these regulations, we write: first, mark, second, assign the Cabinet of Ministers. And I suggested making a general decision, not a list, but a general decree of the Cabinet of Ministers that the Cabinet of Ministers should approve this bill of lading every year. And if we could see that something was wrong, we could.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u147	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u148	Let Adam Ivanovich finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u149	That we're going to write every date -- we're just going to write it down, and that's what the Cabinet of Ministers is doing. Let us, therefore, not list what should be noted, but make a general determination that the Cabinet of Ministers each year at the beginning of each calendar year should take a list of memorable dates to mark. And we'll be able to intervene if we see something wrong. Otherwise, we'll be, well, dispatchers who unfortunately won't do anything good.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u150	Society, society, here's how you feel about Ukrainian parliamentaryism. Zarubinski says that every name, every day, the decision is to be prepared and so forth, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk says that it is to be known in the Cabinet of Ministers in general. I'm definitely against it. We and the political body, in contrast to the other, we represent different political powers here, this is our collective decision and this is our right, and I would not want us to give this right completely to the Cabinet of Ministers. We're making a decision. Let the Cabinet arrange it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u151	Colleagues, can I make you the next offer? See what it's all about. First, take it. Let's talk about it. Wait. So when we vote, I propose to vote first on the basis. And then there's a couple of things going on, and I'll tell you what. Because, after discussion, it would be logical for an act of the Supreme Council to be a binding act, not a recommendation. We love government, don't we? We love. We'd like to be loved, too, so I think it would make sense. Next, if someone develops, perhaps something to clean up, to be kind and to vote in general. After that, we will be making changes to the national deputies who want other memorials. If we do not vote today as a whole, we will wait again until the end of the calendar year for this decree. Let's talk for five minutes, please. No, thank you. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, you can sit down now, and if you do, I'll leave you to it. Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u152	Please pass the word to Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u153	Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u154	Well, not in a minute, but give it a minute. Thank you, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u155	Adam Ivanovich, you took over the limit when you spoke two minutes ago. If you have to, we'll give you three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u156	Okay, thanks. Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention, Arsenius Petrovich, to you, to look at the ranks that remain to vote and mention the 84th article of the Constitution, and we are specially left in the hall to see how it will be implemented, that's the first. Others, others. There was a ruling, it was our fellow player's decree of 1271, January 25. She was in the daytime, somehow gone, about marking at the state level of the 225th anniversary of the town of Sevastopol. So I'm proposing, so I'm going to suggest that if you look at this question, you're going to have to include this list and this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u157	Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u158	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, we have indeed decided, during the annual work of the Supreme Council, on our committee to gather together all these memorable dates of events and personalities, as reported by the head of the Committee, Vladimir Yavorowski, to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers on a national level. This is exactly the category of dates and Jubilee to be marked at the national level. So it makes sense to take this approval and assign the Cabinet of Ministers to each date, every Jubilee, as it were, to make its decisions and to observe them at the state level. So there's a logic to it, and a request to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u159	Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u160	Victor Taran, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, I have great respect for Vladimir Alexanderovich, and the purpose of the determination he represented here is, of course, noble. On the other hand, let Vladimir Aleksandrovitch forgive me, make up a certain, well, let's say, a sunflower with names, dates, surnames. Is that what I'm saying, Vladya? I'm leading you to what I'd like to hear about the ideology of these dates, and I'd like to hear that this ideology fits into our national historical memory. And I don't know if this national historical memory fits into, let's say, an orchestra that's 100 years old or how old or 50 years old, along with the births of our national liberation spirits? I just didn't hear ideologies. Methodology, what I'm talking about here, I think, is Deputy Martinyuk. I'm leading to what needs to be taken, that's the first step, but I'd like to take into account that there's a clear system of national and historical ideologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u161	Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would just like to ask you once again that you have taken this position. Look, there's a list of memorabilia. He can never include all the memorials, for what distinguishes the Dream from the Berescek, the Beresceka from the Cossack, and so forth? We can't even include everything, and the decision will be completed all the time. What's the point? It seems to me that there was a better practice in Parliament: when the event was, indeed, of a national scale. Not regional, no, sorry, small town anyway. Then, when this person is a man of the national level, we made normal decisions. And we formed what is a memorable date. If there are any regional moments, this can be done by the district authorities, the Cabinet of Ministers and so on. Let's not move away from this practice, because there seems to me to be such a trend even in our environment, among my colleagues, to give more away from Parliament about functions and its mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u163	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Where's Martinyuk? There's no Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u164	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." I propose to support the draft ruling proposed by Javorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich. And Vladimir Alexandrovich would like to remind us that it is this year that the celebration of the Jubilee Day of Carpathian Ukraine begins in Zakarpatta. Please consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u165	Colleagues, one more. Belarus Oleg. We still have a minute. I'll give you half a second. How's six minutes? We'll be looking at two more bills. Oleg Grigorovich! There's no Belarus. Paul also asked for Paul’s silence and for Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u166	Paul Mokchan, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I understand that it would be necessary at the very beginning of the work of our Parliament to approve a similar list, which is now proposed by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. For four months we missed the most important historical date of January, February, March, already April And that's why I'm addressing Oleg Zarubinsky, my dear friend, we, and if we're still going to get into a fight, we're going to miss the most important dates we've got. So support with your faction today what is being proposed to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u167	Sergey Shevchuk, please. We're about to vote, comrades, silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u168	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. I want to make an addition. I understand that we may accept this decision. In addition to the memorable dates, there are special dates, 500 years of the inhabited area, the district center. There are several of these centers on Volina, and I would like to ask very much, I know that Vladimir Alexanderovich will agree on the town of Lokachi and the city of Turic, which mark this year's half-century anniversary, to be included in this important census. I would be grateful if you would accept my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u169	Thank you, colleagues. What's the offer? Nevertheless, if we start to voice and remind ourselves of any other memorable dates, we will increase this determination by ten times. There are memorable dates that can easily be marked at the district level, well, if it is a village or a district center, you have to twist your tail to the head of the district administration and everything will be fine. The order of the head of the ODA will be accepted, marked at the regional level, and will be peaceful. Because I'm offering you colleagues, let's put 2092 to the vote on the basis, please, national MPs! We're voting on the basis of Bill 2092 and then we're going to introduce the law. Everyone votes in person, exclusively. [[17:57:39]] For 222 Who didn't? It didn't work, Belarus. Return to the vote. I'm betting on the vote return, but I have to accept it, I've got to give it, people haven't made it to the button. [[17:58:07]] For 227 In the end, 227. Colleagues, now in the very drafting of the decree, listen. In view of the changes made to the Ukrainian Constitution in 2004, acts of the Supreme Council are binding. I would like to correct the design technique in the regulation and the decision to make such an editorial: a decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to mark memorial dates and Jubilee in 2008. In order to systematize the observances of memorial dates and Jubilee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will ensure that in 2008 the list is added at the state level of the following commemorative dates and Jubilee. Yeah, okay? Tell me what the objection is. You don't want people celebrating. Well, turn on the microphone, please, we'll vote your objections. Please turn on the microphone of the colleague Matthew, which is the objection. Let's turn on the microphone, we're listening to your objections. Deputy Matthew's word of objection. No objections? We vote in the paper that is proposed. Come on, turn on Matthew's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u170	Thank you. First, Arsenij Petrovich, you have grossly violated the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine because you put the draft decree to a re-vote without voting the question of return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u171	You listen to what the Headman says, this is the first time. We've put the vote back on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u172	And don't interrupt me, please, I'm just as popular as you are, even though you may be sitting in that chair temporarily. And secondly, not only in Matthew, but in all of our factions, there are serious objections that have been expressed, particularly by fellow Martinyuk before this draft decision. And that is why we insist that we make our proposals for the second reading as required by the provisional Rules of the Supreme Council. So you don't have the right to put this motion to a vote right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-04-10-m1.u173	I'll even tell you what your objection is, or I don't think we should hide it here. And the objection is that 2008 is the year of the victims of famine. So I understand what your objection is. I put to the vote on the basis and in general, taking into account the rights that were. [[18:01:17]] For 228 Decision taken. We move on to the next issue of agenda 2017 – a bill to be reported by Deputy Hara. There's no Deputy Harry? None. Thank you. We close the session, the plenary session more precisely.
