ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:00:57]] There are 308 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, guests of the Supreme Council, have been gone 75 years since the Great Holocaust. This week, measures are being taken to honor the memory of the victims of this tragedy. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of all the victims of the Holocaust. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, today at the Poultry of Roman Mikhailovich's 55-year-old Jubilee. Welcome to our colleague. [[Applause]] Today is also the birthday of Makijenko Vladimir Petrovich, the Kalugal Vitaliy Anatoliyovich, and Jaroschuk Vladimir Ivanovich. I'd like to welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, this morning there was a meeting of the leaders of the MP factions who were discussing the further work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to inform you that we already have a decision of the parliamentary committees on the three bills tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to be considered in accordance with the anti-crisis plan. A large package of bills has also come forward to address the crisis of today’s basic sectors of the Ukrainian economy and in other areas from a large number of national deputies from different factions. Taking into account the situation that today is with the drafting of the bills and the lack of consultation between the parliamentary factions on the issue of the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the three parliamentary factions — the “Julia Timoshenko Block”, “Our Ukraine” and the Party of Regions — have proposed that today and tomorrow we continue to work on parliamentary committees. This is a three- faction proposal I'm putting to the vote. Please make up your mind. Please vote. [[10:04:08]] For 155 Any questions from the procedure? Please sign up for a question from the procedure. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I either didn't understand the Chief, or the session hall didn't hear what it was about, and three factions: The Party of Regions – 175, "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko" – 156 and democratic, and the totalitarian part of "Our Ukraine," how many of them are going to be there, - if you've really made that decision and made that decision in the hall, what are you getting at our heads? If you have an agreement, vote. If you don't make an agreement, don't embarrass all of Ukraine. Bills need to be really worked out and reasoning is active, and until now we have not waited for those bills from the government that would be directed at minimizing the negative social consequences. We'd like to get more. We don't have them on the committee. We have to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u3	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to give you information, I've just been informed from the secretary that one faction just couldn't put the cards in full storage. Now, please, Nayden's Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u4	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u5	Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u6	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction insists that representatives of factions, using the five-minute rule of law, express their views on developments in Parliament and the country. Secondly, the Communist faction is outraged by the behaviour of large businesses and their political factions here directly. That a new phase of negotiations between Yushchenko and the oligarchs had begun for the transfer of Ukraine and for the practical destruction of parliamentaryism in Ukraine. We therefore demand that matters be considered as a matter of priority today. This is a matter of parliamentary leadership and urgent consideration must be given to the adoption of anti-crisis measures. Today, banditry continues in the country of economic and financial affairs, and this must be put to an end. The Communist faction once again warns you, dear colleagues, that this will be over.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u7	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u8	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, you misinformed Parliament and the public. The faction of Block Tymoshenko does not stand for a break in the work of Parliament. There are bills submitted by the government that have been discussed by the profile committees, bills aimed at eliminating the consequences of the financial crisis that has affected Ukraine, and we insist that Parliament work. We didn't take the head of the Supreme Council down, we didn't initiate this adventure, we didn't block Parliament's work, so please, we won't be responsible for the consequences of these adventures. Let those who did these things be held responsible for them. And we believe that in times of crisis, parliament should work, to consider bills that will help overcome this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u9	Thank you. I ask you to contact the leader of your faction, Mr. Ivan Grigorovich, who was present at this council and on behalf of the faction supported the proposal. I ask you to speak to Matthew Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u10	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” Block. Alexander Volodymyrovich, when you set up an adventure to destabilize the situation in Parliament, you thought it was easy to run Parliament. And now you're demonstrating the inability to run Parliament. First of all, we don't have to break the Rules. Tell me: Where is the decree, and who is the author of these orders to change the working order? You're breaking the Rules. And the second. To get out of this situation, I am addressing you personally. I registered two draft decrees: 3380 and 3381. The first draft of the decree says that we must cancel the wrong decision to resign the Supreme Council. This means that we must go through this procedure according to the Rules. And the second draft of the regulation suggests that the decision to dismiss the Supreme Council will enter into force after the election of the new one. So we're going to get out of the Colosseum. Please put these decisions to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u11	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u12	Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”, Kharkivščina. Please pass the word to your colleague Teryochin. Although he does not really want to take it, we would ask him to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u13	Thank you very much. I would really like to confirm that the next stage of anti-crisis laws has been prepared, discussed by the committees. And we're ready to discuss them now, even though we don't have anyone to sign them. But we had such a position in the past calling. I remind you, we discussed the bill four days a week, and we voted only one day a week. So let's do without evil, work, show people that we're moving forward, that we have measures against a crisis that could come upon Ukraine, the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u14	Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u15	Thank you very much. Before putting to the vote and we vote in favour of making changes to the calendar plan of our session, I would like to draw the attention of the national deputies to the fact that the calendar of the session is approved by the Supreme Council's decree. In this connection, making changes to the calendar plan means making changes to the Supreme Council’s ruling. This requires a bill of registration and a vote in favour of the text of the bill, not a procedural decision in favour of a vote. The second problem that I'm very interested in and concerned about is that I would like to see the decisions to make changes to the calendar plan signed by some official on the basis of which the Supreme Council did not work last week and this week. A decision has been made twice, but there is no decision as to the Supreme Council’s acts on this matter. I would ask the chairman to explain this to the Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u16	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u17	I'm done, thank you. But I want an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u18	Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u19	There's no Matthew. We're running out of time for this. Thus, honourable colleagues, proposals for the consideration of draft laws now, according to the agreed timetable, were also discussed at the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary factions, and Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin is right when he mentions that such a procedure was and was foreseen at that time by the valid Rules. For us to do this, we also need to review our Rules of Work. And once again, after discussing the situation with all the leaders of the parliamentary factions, the three parliamentary factions -- "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" and "The Party of Regions" -- agree that today and tomorrow the Ukrainian Parliament will work in committee mode, because we have not yet resolved the issue of the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and there are no necessary documents for today's consideration of the entire set of anti-crisis measures. So once again, I'm putting a motion to the vote. Ivan Grigorovich, you. Please. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! After a meeting of faction leaders, where we raised the question clearly, and you're a witness, and this is under the transcript, we offered to go back to the practice that we had in one of the exclamation points that we've been looking at over the week with bills, and only one day we've devoted to voting. So it was offered by our faction. As manager, let's work in this mode. We have a number of anti-crisis laws passed by the government. I brought a package of these bills to consider with committees that can be considered in the hall. This offer was not found in most factions. I didn't find it. So let's take it from the reverse that most of us haven't found, and then it was decided that if that decision is not made, then we have to take a break. Alexander Volodymyrovich, the faction, then I went down to the faction, told how events were happening, and the faction unanimously spoke for the continuation of Parliament's work. That's why I'm calling the faction's decision. Proposals are one and the faction's decisions are the other. That's why I'm officially saying what I am. That's where I started.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u21	I see. Ivan Grigorovich, I just want to inform you that if we find support for the proposal, we should make changes to the Rules that we are voting on, for example, Thursday, and we are working for three days without a vote, this is a change to the Rules that can only take effect after the corresponding signing by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So your proposal may be considered, but it cannot be continued. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u22	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Alexander Volodymyrovich, once again, I would like to ask you to speak on behalf of the factions and to comment on what is happening today both in Parliament and in the state. This is not how the Supreme Council can observe what is going on in a state of crisis without working without organizing the work of the Supreme Council on the adoption of laws, without making the decisions that the same executive branch of government needs if it is really trying to resolve the issues in a crisis. So I'm insisting on the faction's behalf that we meet the standard, and using it, we've spoken on behalf of factions for five minutes to comment on what's going on, and to confirm whether or not to declare a new faction position based on what we're looking at today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u23	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. We've got Thursdays today, and factions aren't foreordained. But this proposal also came during our morning meeting. And if there's the will of the people's deputies, we can do it. So I can put to the vote the proposal that we now take the time to speak from the parliamentary factions. Please, I'm putting a motion to vote so that we can now allocate 30 minutes for statements from parliamentary factions. Please vote. [[10:16:42]] For 310 Decision taken. Please register with factions. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u24	Dear voters! Simonenko, the Communist faction. I am addressing you, because we, the national deputies, are witnesses, as the oligarchs once again agree with Yashchenk, agree on the distribution of Ukraine, power and property. Meanwhile, the crisis in Ukraine is becoming unsettled. The Pension Fund is rapidly being ravaged, and production is under way. The budget is reduced as a stepneath. After the mass stop of industrial enterprises, when tens of thousands of people were on the street or released, or sent away on unpaid vacations, the time came and the pensioners were retired. Today, 350 nomads do not work, nearly 12,000 houses do not receive heat, 800 social facilities, that is, schools, kindergartens, hospitals. A state-owned firm called Selidewwicil. For the failure to pay for electricity today, all the power shafts were shut down, only human lifts were left. Coal mining is stopped. Yellow salary is issued as an advance, without payment to the Pension Fund and other funds. In the coal warehouses of the Lugansk region, the remaining coal is 400,000 tons, but the provision of only 24 percent of coal to people. Retirement breaks in November of individual cases became a major phenomenon in rural areas and small cities. That is where the most economically and socially vulnerable part of our citizens live. There is also a disastrous situation in providing medical facilities with medicines and equipment, with the payment of salaries to hospital staff. There was a sharp reduction in the cost of feeding patients at the stations. The increase in drug prices has deprived millions of people of the ability to obtain the most needed drugs. First of all, of course, these are the elderly, the disabled, those who need special attention from the State. And at this time, as the orange authorities in charge of Yushchenko take care of them, there can be confirmation that homeless dogs are being held in the township, Kyiv region. Six bracelets are spent a day on their maintenance, and at the same time in Yellow Hospital, this is in Kiev, downtown Kiev, to keep the patient sick for a day or four bracelets. Here's the price of this power, how it treats Ukrainian citizens. But there's no way for the orange-nationalist government to worry about the problems of ordinary citizens of Ukraine. This power, along with the diverse oligarchs and President Yushchenko, is concerned with solely their own and corporate problems. Banks continue to rob businesses, demanding credits of less than thirty percent per year. At this time, the Yellow Revolution plant in Lugansk has orders, but it has no circulation costs. At the same time, the banks that led the looting commission to sell cash and, in fact, because of the accelerating price of the most attractive state-owned enterprises, by their business clans, are multiplying their own assets by parasites to human misery. The wrongness and unwarrantedness of the actions of the owners of commercial banks that have set up a commission assembly for the sale of currency is not in the interests of society, but in the face of a crisis, it is clearly a crime. With regard to privatization. In the face of a crisis, Yushchenko’s efforts to take out the Odessa import plant, an enterprise that plays one of the key roles in ensuring Ukraine’s economic security and is one of the major budgeting enterprises, cannot be qualified otherwise than an attempt to commit a state crime. Not once, I have highlighted the involvement of President Yushchenk and his family's business in speculation on Russian and Central Asian gas supplies in Ukraine in conjunction with Rosukrenerego. It is no coincidence, therefore, that this company is the main applicant for Odessa’s driveway. Behind both these structures, Rosukrenerego and the DF group stands one of the famous oligarchs and it is well known that they are simply trying to sell this powerful factory. I'm speaking to my fellow MPs, and I need to immediately consider the law on nationalization that the Communists have proposed and that meets all the current requirements. The State, in which the oligarchs are in power, is also obliged to have a significant influence on businesses and owners so that their predatory interests do not harm the interests of society, the interests of the workers. We need to adopt a special law that prohibits, especially in times of crisis, any privatization of such enterprises as the same Odessa port. It's not selling today, it's saving. We need to take strict control of the owners of strategic enterprises and force them to save jobs, return money from offshores, and channel social security, that is, pay, fill the Pension Fund, and finance retraining programs. And to the end. At Yushchenko’s International Monetary Fund, the oranges take billions of dollars in loans to cope with the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u25	Complete, please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u26	and, in fact, it's a spat, and future debts hang on ordinary people, on us with you. But they don't have enough. What cynicism must be achieved in order to wash tens of millions of dollars through the presidential - controlled structures of the nation’s tens of millions of dollars when covered by human misery? And at this time, when the state crisis, a billion bracelets were set aside to build this memorial in relation to the events of 1932-1933. How should their ancestors, who liberated Ukraine and Europe from German - Fascist invaders, have lifted it from the ruins so that orange Yushchenko and those representing our country in the international arena refused yesterday to support the United Nations Resolution on the Prevention of the Heroization of Nazi Crimes and the Destruction of Monuments of Fascism Fighters? Thus, Yushchenko and the nationalists openly and cynically declared to the world that they support Fascism. This is a crime in front of the people of Ukraine, and I insist again, national deputies, that today it is imperative to make an urgent decision to release Yushchenko from office, starting by initiating the procedure, the procedure of impeachment and dragging him to criminal responsibility for all that is being done in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u27	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u28	Please give the word to Nikolai Ivanovich Azarov. Azarov! Azarov!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u29	Mikola Janović Azarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u30	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! A week ago, the opposition Government, formed by the Party of the Regions, reviewed the socio-economic situation in the country and adopted a package of laws that could address, above all, the socio-economic situation. Yesterday, this package of laws was registered with the Supreme Council. It consists of 17 bills submitted by the faction, four bills submitted by our people's deputies and registered in this package. In the near future, two more bills will be submitted for registration. Thus, the Party of the Regions has developed a comprehensive package that could address today's situation. What are its main features? First. The problem of the country's balance of payments. A colossal negative balance, i.e. the difference between export income and currency income to the country and the funds to be paid for imports and other obligations of Ukraine. This problem must be resolved within the next year. We need to consider these measures, adopt them and implement them firmly. Thus, the adoption of these bills to improve our trade balance will reduce the country's negative trade balance by $10 billion. This will stabilize the country's currency reserves and stabilize the exchange rate of our national currency. Second. A set of measures aimed at the social protection of our people. It is clear that the purchasing power of our people, due primarily to the decline in real wages and the real incomes of our citizens, falls sharply during 2008. All of this leads to a decline in demand economically, and consequently increases negative trends in the economy. Measures must be taken immediately to restore the purchasing power of our people. This is aimed at a range of activities related to improving social protection. What's this package talking about? First of all, it provides for an increase in the minimum wage, minimum subsistence, as well as a revision of the principles of minimum subsistence, an increase in the income of the population to be indexed, a reduction in the income of low-income citizens through an increase in the social tax benefit of an untaxed minimum, and a full board of other measures. Unlike purely populist statements by the Government, our social protection package provides for a very balanced approach. The next important direction is to stabilize the economic situation in the country: these are primarily measures that will enable our industry to accumulate the resources needed for modernization, investment processes. Taking advantage of the fact that the demand for many enterprises has decreased on the external market, these resources, together with the resources of banks and with the resources of the State, have been directed towards modernization and investment programmes. The next part of the bill regulates the maintenance of liquidity in the banking system or the capitalization of banks. We must restore the opportunity of our banking sector to lend to our industry. The next important step is to support our agro-industry complex. What this Government has allowed to be called a crime against peasants, a crime against our people, is impossible. The only year in the last 15 years, when favorable weather conditions have allowed for tremendous harvesting, and this is no credit to this government, is thanks to God.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u31	Finish up, please, Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u32	Even this divine grace was not to be taken advantage of. This comprehensive bill is aimed at, above all, the preparation of the next year's crop. We must say that our actions are in line with the recommendations adopted by the Greater Twentieth at its meeting in Washington. However, it must be clearly seen that every national Government, every national parliament, must take its own set of anti-crisis measures on the basis of the actual situation in the country, because our crises are at the very least linked to the global financial crisis and are, to a greater extent, linked to the very wrong policies of the current Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u33	Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, please. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, the honourable voters, I think it's clear to everyone now that no matter what our faction is, our political power, when we're both in favor of Parliament, and Parliamentarianism in the courts of the Central Electoral Commission, in this room, blocking the rostrums and so on, imagine if, during this period, the whole country were engaged in a fratricidal war or verbal war, or, God forbid, another during the election campaign. Ask people who are said to know well about finance and banking. If we didn't go back to this room, if we didn't adopt the first law, this is just a roof, this is just the first step, and we didn't get the international help that worked, first of all, psychologically, this has to be stressed, then believe me, two weeks from this country, there would be only one name left. Everyone knows what the dollar could be and what could have been the country's economy at all. When we passed the first law with you in this room and got the first signal from the international community, we stressed that this is just the first step, it's just the first strokes, and now it's the job behind us. We were teased: “You came to the hall, where are the government bills, where is the second stage, where is the second package?” Dear colleagues, when we agreed to a break last week, when, in fact, the government introduced 25 and then four more urgent laws, we realized that they had not yet been discussed on the committees. I've taken to the rostrum these bills, which are discussed both in this and in the past week, which are the second package of the fight against the consequences or the minimization of those fears that might be with the economy of the country. Here's the first law that solves agrarian problems that they've just been told about. Dear colleagues, the elimination of the tax system, which has destroyed agriculture for more than a year and probably not a decade, is in this law. The elimination of sunflower duty, the unlocking of trade is this important resource -- something that this hall has fought for, perhaps, for more than a year and more than a decade. In this law, the extension of credit, which was agreed with the government yesterday, with bankers, but needs to be strengthened by law, because there is a need for these banks to be supported from the stabilisation fund. In this same bill, a number of other preferences for agriculture will allow this field to be maintained today. You asked for a village, please, these proposals are. The second law is construction. The government offers housing, which is 50 percent or 70 percent, to fund fully and 30 percent of the first contribution of young families to pay at the expense of the State Budget. It works through the construction of 12 industries, and there are 12 industries in this law. Please, budget law, it's July-month in this room, but it hasn't been supported once, please. We have problems at the Pension Fund -- 5.2 billion. Filling the Pension Fund with budget grants. We supported the miners, but one and a half billion need to be given to the Pension Fund, which is the law. Dear colleagues, NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” (bankruptcy in previous periods – 3.2 billion) We need him to be an active fighter in the gas market. 3.2 NAK Naftogazu is on the move, and he can negotiate, sign agreements. Is that what the state needs today? Are these anti-crisis measures or not? Please accept and vote, and so on. Therefore, to complain that we have no suggestions today is in vain. The committees have taken place, the decisions have been made, and we're in charge of getting the hall to work. We're here to deal with the consequences. The disaster did not just knock on our house, but it did. The result is unemployment, stopped businesses, and so on and so forth. Can we help? We can. 90 percent of decisions have to be made in this room, because at any “whose” economic challenges and risks only have to be adopted by law. Dear friends, if you need our votes to unlock your work. We're not the authors of the riot that took place last week, we weren't standing in his mouth. On the contrary, we did everything we could to prevent it from happening. Once you've come up with something, you have 233 votes -- please vote, choose your head and let's work. We don't play politics. That's the first one. The other one. If we need our votes, we're ready to give them. But we're responsible. In capital letters, the word “responsibility”. Create a coalition and assume responsibility as provided by the Constitution. There is no coalition to create, but our voices are needed — please, we are under obligation. Not multiply the crisis, but eliminate it. Under obligation. Don't touch the government today, don't multiply the crisis, don't touch parliament, don't annoy society with the election, and we'll support it with our votes. Under-by-by-by-by-way! This is the position of the faction, it's said honestly and frankly. And to keep our cards from getting confused, we're not putting out our candidate. Don't tease us with intrigue, we're not his authors. Let's get to work!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u35	Ivy Ivan Stepanovich, please. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u36	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Of course, after the removal of the previous Supreme Council Head, intrigue and politics will flourish on this subject. There will probably be long intrigues and as few programming conversations as possible. We are ready to vote in favour of a candidate that will be put to the vote today. But this candidature has to be put forward and agree to it. And it would be desirable to hear not only the desire, but also the programming principles – what the new candidate for the Head is planning to do, what the primary laws he will introduce, and how he is going to deal with economic and other crises. So far, unfortunately, there's no such conversation, there's only talk about names, possible configurations -- situational or not situational and so on, and so on, and so on -- and this is not a serious conversation about responsible policy. So if the candidates are in the hall, if they're being raised by factions or they're going to stand up, let's face it, let's talk about them, let's vote. Next. We passed an anti-crisis bill. But it seems to us that not all the problems in the banking field are solved. You can talk about macro-levels and other high-level things, but people in kiosks can't buy solid currency, people in kiosks have to pay the commission, business can't take credit or have to pay interest rates without warning and practically have to accept the dragon's demands of the banking system, the real sector suffers, there's no serious attention to this sector. I think this is something that Parliament should be concerned about, and if elected, the new Head of the Ukrainian Parliament. Next. There are many comments about the crisis in agriculture, metallurgy, chemistry, and construction, but there are no answers to this crisis. We are pleased that the government has passed a seemingly large package of bills. We regret that he did not, indeed, this before, but better late than never. We will consider, just as we will look at the bills that will be passed by another part of the room, and we have already submitted a large number of documents. We have introduced a social anti-crisis bill, which has already passed a profiling committee, for which we are grateful once again to the committee, and we would like it to be a priority for the agenda. Because we're talking about the sector: the construction crisis, agriculture, metallurgy, chemistry, but the crisis between people, among hired workers, is long ago, people have long been at risk of partial unemployment and are practically in this state. In metallurgy and in partial-employment chemistry, there are hundreds of thousands of people. If Parliament doesn't answer now, we'll be saving the industry, but there'll be no one left to work in those areas, because they'll send everyone away either on forced leave or on temporary leave. Thus, our bill provides for partial unemployment assistance and the introduction of two thirds of the tariff rate. And it provides for special targeted public work funding, which is now very and very much lacking in the country. And these social issues need to be addressed above all and above all, because they are now a few months key, and that's what any enterprise manager and any CEO will tell you even a very large and very well-known enterprise. And we also have to take care of any minimum social standards that we have to keep since January 1. Because the main threats of the social type that are now facing the country are inflation, and therefore the decline in purchasing power and unemployment. Secondly, we offer an answer in our law, after inflation, unfortunately, there is not yet that answer. Therefore, both indexation and appropriate social standards must be protected. And so far, the government's ruling, which the financial bloc has introduced, is predicting that the first level of the tariff network is less than the minimum wage. And I'm going to say again that since December 1st of this year it's already a real decline in social standards, especially in the main direction of wage, the same applies to the pension coefficient. Ladies and gentlemen, from January 1st to January 1st, the pension coefficient under the current legislation is decreasing from 1.35 to 1. Fourteen million pensioners may lose their pensions. Therefore, we need to adopt an appropriate decision that prevents this, as provided for in our bill. I ask you to listen and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u37	Thank you, Viacheslav Anatolyovich. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, the marina of Tsvetayeva has very nice words: "In the second half of life, success is not as important as success." So what I'm going to say is, dear colleagues, we should probably think about what we've been able to do and what we're going to be able to do about this situation that's getting worse. I must stress once again the position of our faction, Your Honor. It is a matter of making sure that the problems of the Supreme Council are solved within the walls of the Supreme Council. We stood on it and stood on it, and we stood. We realize that many people do not like it. We stood there and stood on the point that we should have a proper memory. We should not forget that in the walls of the Supreme Council, there was a false law that every person would lack 200 dollars. And now there's a moaning about what the Supreme Council said was wrong and not working properly by making the right decisions. She was doing the right thing. We simply, fellow believers, have no responsibility to admit that laws cannot be forged. And let us remember that and draw the right conclusions. I must say that this question should not be forgotten. Next. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that no matter how much we repeat here the problems that exist in Ukraine if there is no consensus and responsibility for government, the Supreme Council, and understanding the need for joint action on the part of the President of Ukraine, there will be no prospect for Ukraine. What do we have today? Our president is all over the past. The government is at war. Ukraine is in total crisis. And all that's happening today is the desire to put Ukraine in the cemetery together, unfortunately, together. On the way back, someone thinks that when he walks out of the cemetery, he will grab something without knowing or understanding that nothing can be taken from the cemetery. And you know how they're looking at what's happening in Ukraine right now -- more to take, acting on the principle that war is all over. So our proposal is not to show the statue the laws that there are, but to invite the Prime Minister, the President of Ukraine, and to listen to the situation of Ukraine. We rejoice that Ukraine is on the brink of extinction. And that's what they think -- when Ukraine collapses finally, we're going to take power into our own hands. But there'll be nothing left to take. There's nothing to be afraid of. Well, Odessa's porter stayed, “The Shuttleman” remained, “Turboat” remained, “The Star” in Nicholas and there is nothing more to take. So we suggest we stop these negotiations. They should be held exclusively in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make a decision, to propose to the President of Ukraine, to ask, to invite, whatever. The main thing is to have a result. Expressing a message to the Ukrainian people and telling people honestly and honestly what is going on and what is ahead. The Prime Minister would like to propose an anti-crisis package. Under this package, propose a reformation according to the government, so that there is no discussion that someone is assigning a position to make it sound from the mouth of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Then make all the necessary decisions. Well, we should know, dear colleagues, 30 billion is allocated to banks for refinancing. What banks, what projects? To steal again? And again under the terms of protecting the Ukrainian people? We should probably talk about things that are important, strategic for the entire Ukrainian people. I am convinced that in Ukraine today, the truth must sound so that people know what they need to prepare for, so that they know how much the dollar will cost, how much it will take to lay down the coin. We have to make decisions here that are consolidated and take joint responsibility. Our faction called and called, let's do this. We've made these proposals a long time ago. Regrettably, they are returned through their backs, but they return, such as the round table and dialogue, such as the definition of what needs to be done. We've suggested and proposed: let's put off what's between us, let's forget for a while the positions that are taking us to the opposite sides. Let's talk about Ukraine being in danger. Let's talk to everyone here that hurts us in Ukraine. And I'm addressing the deputies and I'm asking you, your honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u39	Finish up, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u40	Let's finally show collective will, even if it comes out of the self-preservation instinct, let's remember that 23 numbers. Why don't they want the Supreme Council to work? They're waiting for November 23rd to be any reason at any time to hang a large castle on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, that's a fact to talk about. And for the rest. We've proposed to the previous Conciliation Council, and today I am grateful that John Kirilenko has supported the thesis that it is necessary for the Supreme Council to work, let's consider these laws, let's vote. I think we'll be smart, and the Supreme Council will form its presidency, and then these laws will be signed. That's our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u41	I would like to announce that, in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 5 and 9 of the Law of Ukraine "On the Higher Council of Justice" on 18 November this year, the President of Ukraine issued a decree appointing the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Krivenk Viktor Vasilovich as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. And according to article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, part of the first article of article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Justice, a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, before taking office, makes a personal oath at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I invite you to take the oath of a member of the High Council of Justice of Krivenk Viktor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u42	I, Krivenko Viktor Vasilovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers, with respect for the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Member of the High Council of Justice, Krivenko Viktor Vasilovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u43	Welcome, Victor Vasilovich! Please pass the oath text on to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u44	One second, I'll sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the proposals that have been made. We have two ways now. The first path foresees that, according to the parliamentary factions of the day order, we move now to the first question. And the second one that was proposed by parliamentary factions this morning to move on to these issues after two days of work on parliamentary committees. I want to say that the legislative process and its propaganda are different things. And the order of the day is formed by those who are not presiding at the meeting or by any of the deputy heads of the Supreme Council, it is formed solely by the heads of the factions. According to the Rules, the factions that make proposals and in total have more than 226 Ukrainian national deputies, and they determine the order of the day. To avoid any claim, any of the questions is not included in the agenda. This is not the will of a member of the committee in which he is not in the session room. So I'm going back to the beginning of our plenary session. And once again, I want to inform you that in the morning there were three factions' positions for us to work on the committees today and tomorrow. If the factions change their minds, we will now move on to the question of choosing the head of the Supreme Council. I'm asking us to make up our minds right now. Please, I would like to hear the leader of the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u46	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, we have expressed our position three times: both on the Conciliation Council and twice in this Hall. The best option is to start looking at the issue as discussed in one of the previous references. Let's take a head, let him sign these decisions. These decisions are not supported by the Conciliation Council. This decision was supported by two out of five subjects. That's why we understand that we're left with a minority. So identify yourself in the voting room.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u47	Ivan Grigorovich, you mean you want us to consider the election of the Supreme Council? Did I get you right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u48	Give me your word. Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u49	This issue will be considered first, since it is accepted by the leaders of the five MP factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u50	That's right, it was Monday, and we agreed with you that, yes, we can't move on without solving the question on our heads, because neither the Rules allow nor the Constitution. Sadly, that is what lawyers and law enforcement told us. We didn't have a candidate, we didn't take part in all of these procedures, so please, there's a majority in the room, let's go ahead and vote. We have no objection or claim in this regard. We're more interested in the package I took to the rostrum. That's all we're interested in. There are most of the votes now-- put to the vote, pick and go to work. But once again, our position, if we need our votes, is clearly under the responsibility of either the coalition or the obligation to work together, and we have no other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u51	I see. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, we are moving on to head selection, or we will be working on committees for two days, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u52	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I don't think everything should be decided by the faction leaders. The main issues of the agenda, in general, all matters of the agenda should be decided by the Chamber of Deputies, because there are people here who clearly have a competent point of view on all matters. We discussed this issue on the Conciliation Council. I can repeat what I said from the rostrum, if there's a candidate in the room who's ready to move out now, to report the program, to convince, including our faction, to submit our views to the crisis, then we're ready to take part in the consideration of this issue and vote or not to vote in favour of such a candidate. If there is no candidate, another decision must be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, please Block Lithuania, Zarubinski Oleg Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u54	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, in principle, it is very clear to all that, at this point in time, there is no single candidature to be elected as Head of the Supreme Council, which everyone understands very well, so obviously we don't have to bring the situation to absurdity, that's the first. And secondly, maybe someone would like to start a week or two before the Order of Disengagement of the Supreme Council of Spikeriad, which is not going to end without an agreed candidature, we're not doing that. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that on Tuesday, when we voted for the next meeting today to be on Thursday, and on Tuesday, and on Wednesday, the committee to consider the anti-crisis bills. I've come to realize that they're ready for today, they've passed a profile committee, the government is ready to report, so I don't think we need to put something in the long box, but we need to start meetings, look at these projects, maybe vote, and there's going to be a Supreme Council head, he's going to sign, I don't think that's what's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I will inform you that yesterday three of the four drafts of the government's anti-crisis committees have been discussed, four are under review today and yesterday, new drafts that have come from the Cabinet of Ministers and he's the national deputies of Ukraine. So talking about the degree of readiness is now problematic enough. Please, Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u56	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! Dear Presidium! It was enough, in my view, to begin the practical process of discussing the candidature for the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I don't understand why we're afraid, why we're saying we should go down the halls, somewhere to make a deal, let someone make a deal. All arrangements should be public in the Supreme Council Hall and should be diverted from the programme, especially from the programme of activities of our Parliament, the Government's programme of activities and the programme of withdrawal from the crisis of Ukraine. Today we are experiencing an unusual time. At a time when Ukraine is on the verge of disaster and people are really feeling it in their daily lives, and we are moving away from public discussion of such a serious issue that will help to get Ukraine out of the crisis. We need to put forward a candidature and a faction of communists ready for this work, we have such a candidature and we have a programme of withdrawal from the crisis of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, the meeting schedule is formed by the leaders of the MP factions, which I have reminded of, but certainly we do not have the approved agenda for today's session, so every matter included in the agenda is resolved in this session room. Today we have a situation where we don't want to work on the committees, so I want to put to the vote today the first issue of the agenda, so that we can move on to the election of the Supreme Council. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:57:02]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The factions will show, please: Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 11, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 39, communists – 27, "Litvina Block" – 0. So what I'm saying is that we have a situation of a kind that we can't move on to the day-to-day issues. In view of the fact that, in accordance with the current Rules, if we are to consider draft laws now, they should end with the signing by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have a question back to the session room. If we do not want to choose the Head of the Supreme Council at all, and we do not want to work on committees to prepare projects for consideration, what suggestions might there be? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u58	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Let us be frank, and today the question is whether or not the majority of the Supreme Council will be in the Supreme Council, the majority of which will be in the Supreme Council. It is in this format that the nomination of the future speaker is being considered. And in order to make a serious decision on this issue, we need to hold a series of consultations, which, you know and, with all the faction leaders aware of this, took place yesterday and the day before late at night. Regrettably, and this result is confirmed today by a vote in the Chamber, so far there is no agreed candidature. But the work continues and continues. And it must be true that on the Contingent Council today, more faction leaders have agreed to continue consultations today and tomorrow, and still to enter into an agreed candidature. And I'm coming into the hall for a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u59	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u60	However, when they arrived in the hall, they gave up their earlier word. Therefore, Alexander Vladimirović, I believe that, given the configuration that has arisen again, it is necessary to return to the vote on the announcement of the recess, the work on the committees, not in the sessional room, for today and tomorrow. And put the matter to a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have come to the point where we need to decide what to do next, since the decision of the leaders of the five factions on Monday has made a decision, and we do not go to other matters of order until we decide first. We refused to answer the first question. That is why I am once again putting to the vote the question that, today and tomorrow, the Ukrainian National Deputies will work on the Committees of Profiles to prepare for both draft laws and to conclude consultations on the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please include the "Council" system, we define. [[11:00:30]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Please, what are some other suggestions? Please write down suggestions from each faction to be made. National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u63	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, the situation is really stale. Alexander Volodymyrovich, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I am addressing you with an offer in this respect. One is when the faction leaders were assembled, and during this period and the faction meeting, the other is on the right when you saw a reaction in the hall. Now we need to re-announce for about half an hour so that we can get the factions together again and consult on the situation that we are in, and then just figure it out. Because, in fact, ignoring the hall, ignoring the MPs is neither impossible nor necessary. Let's get together for half an hour, let's talk about what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u64	Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u66	Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u67	Dear Alexander Vladimirovic, distinguished colleagues, I understand that perhaps the deputies have worked hard enough on the committees by adopting four or three bills that the Government has proposed from a package of twenty-one, so they refuse to continue working on the committees and do not vote for it. Then we have another option: maybe we should go and report to our electorate and still talk to them about what they'll tell us in this situation? Can we continue to have such a vacchanal in the Supreme Council when, without having an orderly structure that will assume responsibility for the adoption of laws and the processes to which we seek, we seek to continue the disorder that exists and position ourselves on the rostrum with different statements, without proposing anything. Once again, I propose, on behalf of the faction, to return to the vote and go to work in the district and report to the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u68	Thank you. Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u69	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, our radio listeners, distinguished voters! You can see the desire to work in the session room. I propose, Alexander Volodymyrovich, to return to the consideration of the ruling proposed by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine in order to overcome the crisis. It's complex, framework, it has specific tasks for all branches of government. And what's missing in all the bills that are being proposed by other factions and by the government of Ukraine is the protection of our people. Because we remember how to support the commercial banks, how to support the builders, because they're all sitting here in these factions that represent the powerful oligarch clans, but they've forgotten exactly what they have to do to support our people. That's why we're offering, let's work. As for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u70	Please finish Katerina Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u71	We understand very well that powerful sacks of money depend on the President's Secretariat, on the President and we negotiate with him, thereby virtually destroying parliamentaryism and democracy in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u72	Strtovic Volodymir Mikolajovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u73	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, well, the logic of common sense suggests that if we are not in favour of resolving the issue of the election of the Supreme Council, there are many other urgent issues in Parliament that are being dealt with not only in the sessionary regime but also in the working regime on committees, with voters and in other matters. So in this situation right now, I suggest we vote that we work for two weeks. Two days on the committees to clarify this situation. Remember that next week we do not have a plenary, he should be dedicated to circuit work, and each deputy planned his work accordingly before this crisis. So we can only meet at the beginning of December. If not, we need to make a decision by voting today that we are going to the next plenary meeting, moving away from the calendar plan next week on Tuesday. Otherwise, to sum it up, Alexander Volodymyrovich, make another suggestion that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u74	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u75	That we are working today and tomorrow on the committees and separately put to the vote a proposal for next week, because we need to move away from the calendar plan and it is approved, as we know, by the Supreme Council's decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u76	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u77	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I'm out of procedure and I'm out. And the procedure is when there are different choices to make decisions, and one option. One position voted negative is obviously the point of putting to the vote another proposal that was being made. I'll remind her. If there are three, let's say there are four bills where there's a decision by the committees, we can move, we can start looking at anti-crisis measures today. We can even vote for them, it is not provided for by the Rules that we cannot do so. Another issue is that the Head of the Supreme Council is given 5 days to sign. I don't think today and tomorrow is necessary. Don't waste it. So I'm going to propose to take and put on a vote and a proposal. the proposal with which we made the "Litvina Block". We've already formulated it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-11-20-m0.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion again. Several suggestions were made during the presentations. Ivan Grigorovich proposed a recess, the national deputy Ephraimov and the national deputy Strtovic proposed to return to the vote, and Catherine Seminovna Samojlik and Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky proposed that we look at the draft laws now. In line with the proposals that have come, I am now voting on the proposal of Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko for a break of 30 minutes, because the two factions did not ask for it -- it is our own. Please specify for a break of 30 minutes, as proposed by Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko. [[11:08:11]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The next proposal made by Aleksandr Sergiyovich Efremovich and Vladimir Mikolajovich Stretovic is that today and tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine should work on parliamentary committees. Please be sure to support this proposal. [[11:08:41]] For 302 Decision taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, the morning plenary meeting, I declare closed. The next plenary session will take place on Tuesday, December 2, at 10 a.m. I'll see you later.
