ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-20-m0.u1	There were 288 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. As always, in order to form a schedule for today’s day, I sincerely invite factions to speak for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-06-20-m0.u2	Good day to you all, dear fellows. I'd like to start by trying to get us into the Parliamentary Hall to give up on each other's insults and rejection of ultimatums. No one is afraid here, so there is no need for fear. I'd like to ask everyone just one request. Let us act only within and in a manner defined by the laws of Ukraine. First. Resolutions of mistrust by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have not been submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament. If such a resolution is to be adopted, it will be necessary, in accordance with the requirements of article 225 of the provisional Rules, at least 17 days for the resolution to be considered both by the Supreme Council committees and by the Cabinet of Ministers. Once again, I would like to point out that the resolutions on government mistrust are not in the parliament walls. The other one. There is also no draft Supreme Council regulation to change Parliament's leadership in Parliament's walls. I'd like to redefine my position. If there is an appropriate application for a change in Parliament's leadership, I assure you that I will ensure the voting process. The authorities should be proud and proud of it in the event that there are 226 votes. Third. As for the extraordinary plenary meeting. I assure you that in accordance with Article 19 of the Temporary Rules, if 150 Ukrainian national deputies are to be appointed to convene an extraordinary meeting with the respective deputies, it will be convened within three days. I'd like to sum it up again. We act exclusively in the manner and within the limits provided for in the law, for no one in this House wants unconstitutional capture or seizure of power. As far as the coalition is concerned. Once again, there is no legal basis to stop the process of forming a new coalition, only a proper decision of factions is needed. If there is a new coalition agreement, please meet the requirements of the law, put this new coalition agreement on the table, and it will be declared to be a new coalition. If that is not the case, we should be legally awaiting a decision by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. There's a submission. This is the only body of constitutional jurisdiction that will explain whether there is a coalition today or not. And the last. I suggested to the faction leaders today that we spend a working day without any political documents, because they were not introduced, but only in the daytime order, which was formed, that we return to the vote on the Road Traffic Act, that we return to the vote on the prestige of mining work, to review Bill 1408 on the imperative mandate and the parliamentary benefits -- both of us, and the other, I wanted to emphasize, and the Party of the Regions' aid bill, so that we can declare that we are truly responsible politicians. Sadly, such an offer was not supported. In view of this, it is clear that the Parliamentary Hall is blocked, and we no longer have practical time to work. On schedule, we have two weeks of committee work and district work. I don't think this situation is going to dissipate, it's not a situation that's going to separate itself -- it's going to be a solution. But this is the time that will allow the political forces to continue their internal political consultations. Parliament has, as always, become a hostage. The problem did not arise in these walls, and the problem is not inspired by the people's deputies -- the problem arose at the level of relations between different branches of government, not between the Ukrainian national deputies. And the last. As Head of Parliament, I will protect this Parliament -- which it is not, but this is the Ukrainian Parliament for which they voted -- until the last bullet. Thank you. I'm adjourning the session of Parliament.
