ParlaMint-UA_2008-12-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please include the "Council" system for registration. [[10:02:20]] There are 437 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Morning plenary meeting, 439, I apologize. On various monitors, I showed a crash. 439 Ukrainian national deputies, the morning plenary session declared open. Dear colleagues, on December 5, 2008, came out of the life of Patriarch Moscow and all of Russia, Alexei II. His activity as the spiritual leader of millions of Orthodox people was filled with feelings of deep faith, Christian wisdom, and love. The patriarch was and remains an example of the Christian ministry for all Orthodox Christians. Please honor the memory of Patriarch Alexius II for a minute of silence. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we've had a two-day break with you, and I would like to inform you that, according to the commission that was accepted in the session hall, the Committees of the Supreme Council during this time have considered 109 issues of drafting drafts for plenary review, 57 of which are recommended for consideration in the first reading, 19 of which are projects defined by committees as anti-crisis. I mean, today the Supreme Council of Ukraine is ready to start with the issues that are most relevant today. I would like to inform you that yesterday there were two meetings of the leaders of the MP factions who were discussing the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Based on today’s meeting, there are proposals from the faction to conclude consultations on the formation of the coalition and the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The factions of the "Julia Timoshenko" and the "Litvina Block" have asked for a break today until 16 o'clock to finish. The factions “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense” and the faction of the Party of the Regions said they would suggest such a recess to be done by 10 a.m. tomorrow. We can only solve this by voting in the session room. So I'm voting on the proposal that we take a break in the plenary and start tonight's planning session at 4:00. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:05:38]] For 230 In 230, the decision is made. The factions? Please, by the factions. Region Party – 3 “Club of Timoshenko” – 154, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 26, Communists – 27, “Club of Lithuania – 20. So at 4:00 a.m., the evening plenary meeting will begin. The morning plenary session is closed.
