ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, please take up jobs. We're not busy, are we? Okay. Then I'm asking you to register. [[10:03:32]] A 271 Ukrainian national deputy registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I would like to remind you once again that those MPs who have not registered will not be paid for the workday. As for the political arrangements that took place yesterday. I'm not going to give you any news, my dear colleagues. We didn't make a deal yesterday. So you will have to solve other people’s problems on your own. I think we're going to solve them and I'd like to report on the direction of the conflict situation that will now be proposed, including me, at the Conciliation Council of factions, and which were expressed yesterday, in fact, by fact, by the faction leaders. There is no objection in any faction to the draft legislation on the import of meat and food. So there's no question, we're ready to look at it. And there are six bills: three, the main, three, the alternative. Let them be identified, including representatives of the government, for which to vote. Once again, I would like to emphasize that all factions are ready to consider the bill. The other one. Yesterday was Government Day and today again Government Schedule Day, which was approved by the Conciliation Council on Monday. So I'm going to suggest that we put all the government bills that were still there in the daytime order, and I'm going to give it a full day's work on this issue. Yesterday the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had to consider raising the responsibility for violations of the Road Traffic Rules. Also include it as socially meaningful. And that's how we go through today. As for the most important question or one of the most important issues that stood, the State Property Fund. The opposition stated that it was ready to address the issue of the resignation of the Head of the State Property Fund and immediately put two conditions. The first condition is the consideration of the State Privatisation Program. And the second language is to make changes to the State Budget Act with a clear statement of the position to which the money received from privatization will be sent. Thus, a package was formed: one requirement is coalitions, and more specifically, parts of the coalition, another requirement is opposition. So far, this is something I can tell you. Once again, there's only one thing I'd like to say to Parliament, and the people's deputies are representatives of a separate independent branch of power, the only legislative body. Therefore, it would not be desirable to adjust to someone. Well, we haven't solved the problem elsewhere, and I'm telling you exactly what we're going to do, we're going to start working as we did, but we've wasted a lot of time. Please, Your Honor, by 11 o'clock, I'm going to go out and report the final decision of the faction leaders, as always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-15-m0.u2	Dear friends, the process is going in some direction. I'm reporting the latest news from the front. The number of drafts was almost agreed upon. It is now decided which to vote for. Why? Because there's a government bill, there's an alternative to a parliamentary bill by the same subject. The faction leaders are unable to determine which factions they do not support. You're asked by 12.30 to work separately outside the plenary room. So by 12.30, we have exactly 12 to 12.30 recesses, so by 12.30, I'm re-announced to continue consultations and recesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-05-15-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, nothing new, except that after the previous negotiations I had formed a day’s order. This is the one that was distributed to the faction leaders, including all the agenda issues that were proposed. The decision has not yet been made by the Faction BUT. So, as always, we need to break up with the committees. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue. Good-bye. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
