ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, let's register. [[10:02:27]] There are 433 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, next offer. I would like to ask Mikola Volodymyrovich to read the requests of the Ukrainian national deputies. And while Mikola Volodymyrovich will be reading requests from the people's deputies, I'm asking the factions to come to my office, and we'll try to settle the schedule in 30 minutes. Okay? Is that accepted? Thank you. Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please. I invite the faction leaders. Before you ask, dear friends, let's welcome Vladimir Georgievich Karpuk on his birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, there have been requests from the national deputies. Vladimir POLOCHALA to the President of Ukraine for ignoring the facts of corruption, abuse and serious violations of effective legislation by directors of the Ministry of Education and Science of the State Department of Intellectual Property and the State Enterprise "The Ukrainian Agency for Copyright and Neighbouring Rights." Dear colleagues, since this is about a request to the President, I ask you to vote in favour of sending the request of Vladimir Pollohal to the President of Ukraine. In order to vote on this issue, we need 150 votes, I remind you. Please, in favour of the request of the People's Deputies of Polohal, please vote. [[10:04:14]] For-137 It is known that 150 is needed to support the request. The request is not supported and I don't vote for directions. Request for the People's Deputies of Valery BEVZA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to return to the state ownership of the Open Shareholders' Association of the Viennese Underfooting Plant. Vassila HARI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration and return of the Institute of Oncology to the administration of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Mr. Eduard PRUETNIK to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, Head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission of Ukraine on the verification of the gas supply situation in the town of Borzna Chernigiv. YEUGENA VOLINCE to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the correctness of the calculation of monthly insurance payments to regressors and the repayment of regressive payments for 2002 - 2008. Igora SHAROVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of the constitutional rights of residents of the Shirayev district of Odessa to a safe environment and a healthy environment and immediate measures to deplete the unfavourable to use plant chemical protection in a shelter located in the village of the city of Zhašice. Igora SHAROVA to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of measures to reduce the adverse effects of technological agents on the natural environment of the region of Kirovograd in the implementation of the State Programme for the Permanent Development of the Region of Extraction and Primary Processing of Uranium Resources for 2006-2030. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an urgent increase in the funding of cardiac wards in the hospitals of Equine. Mr. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for inclusion in the National Budget of Ukraine for the following year of the cost of building an oncodipenser in the Plains region. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-systemic sale of spare coal fields. [[TOLUBA AND OTHERS]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to create obstacles for the Ministry of Coal Industry of Ukraine to receive information on the activities of state-owned coal industries. [[TOLUBA AND OTHERS]] Mr. Andria PAWLOWSKI to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the violation of the land rights of citizens of the village of Gavronščina in the Kyiv region. Mr. Vladimir PHILIPPEN to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for bringing to justice the head of the Ukraine’s Secretary of State Victor Baloga for acts of corruption. Vladimir YAVORISKY to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine regarding the formal request to the Russian Federation for confirmation or denial of the presence of a list of Ukrainian citizens who were banned from entering the territory of the Russian Federation, which was published in the Ukrainian media on September 18, this year. Eugene Good to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of determining the reasons and investigating the long-standing non-reaction by law enforcement authorities with regard to the attempted illegal possession of property by the Open Shareholder Association of Saturn and the deliberate failure to enforce decisions to protect corporate rights of society. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the violation of the legal rights and interests of members of the Public Organisation of the Automotive Association of Vossijščina by officials of the public organization Kyiv City Association of Automobiles. VICTOR DANILENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the land rights of citizens of the village of Korovci in the region of Nedrigailiv. Mr. Dmitra SPENOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Hersonian Region, on the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal regarding violations of the rights of the open shareholders association "Civore ATP 14100" and other violations of legislation by the village council of the Skadovian region and the private company "Reserve-D" in the Hersonian region. John STANDS to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation of the rights of the Ukrainian national deputy John Stoyk. MICHELLA CATHERINCHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for the verification of violations of the juvenile housing policy. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the verification of the legality of land allocation for the planned construction of a residential complex on a slope adjacent to the territory of the National Botanical Garden of the Grych National Academy of Sciences. Aleksandra KEMENYASA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the involvement of officials of the district and local councils and the respective administrations of the Zakarpat region involved in the events of September 11, 2008. Roman ZABZALJUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper review by the Prosecutor's Office of the Mikolai district of the MP's request for non-execution by the Limited Responsibilities of the Domanowski Trade House, as well as possible abuses by officials of the Domanov District State Administration. Roman ZABZALJECK to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper examination by the prosecutor of the Mikolai district of MPs of possible violations of current legislation in the construction of a commercial pavilion near a residential building in the city of Mikolayev on the street of Artem, 35. PISKUN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on reports of criminal investigations involving violations of electoral legislation during the 2004 elections of the President of Ukraine and elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2006 and 2007. The branch of VELIJAN to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of immediate measures to stop violations, namely: deliberate failure by the official to execute a sentence, decisions, decisions, decisions, decisions of the court that have gained legal power, officials of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the gross violation of existing legislation in granting the right to use the nadram as the first deputy minister of the environment, John Chornokur. [[GELLERA, WHITE, KORSE]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the gross violation of existing legislation in allowing the use of two primordial faline genealogy by the Minister of Environmental Protection. [[GELLERA, WHITE, KORSE]] Dear colleagues, I have been asked by representatives of the Fräulein Yulia Timoshenko faction that there was no faction in full in the vote of the People's Deputy Volodymira Polochal's request because the faction was still in session. If you don't mind, I'll ask you to vote again. No warning? Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw attention to the request of the People's Deputy Vladimir Polohal to the President of Ukraine regarding the ignoring by the Attorney-General's Office, other law-enforcement authorities of the facts of corruption, abuse, substantial violations of the current legislation by the directors subordinated to the Ministry of Education and Science of the State Department of Intellectual Property. Please vote. [[10:12:40]] To - 151. Request supported. In order to form it, to send it to the President, it is known that 226 votes are required. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of sending this request to the President. Please vote. [[10:12:42]] To - 151. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I understand that faction leaders are still having a discussion, and we have no opportunity to continue to consider the bills, because we have not voted on the agenda today, we have not agreed. So I'm calling it a 15-minute break. Let's get back to work at 10:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, we take our seats, we approach today's plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll start with a few announcements. First, colleagues regarding the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. Parliament voted on the second reading of the bill and, in general, on today's plenary session. However, the Supreme Council committee failed to prepare him for his second reading. So they decided to put the bill on Tuesday. Second, colleagues regarding the voting procedure in the parliamentary walls. Dear colleagues, I saw a few interviews yesterday by Ukrainian national deputies saying that the "Council" system is not new or not working. I report that the "Council" system is new, look, you've got a "sensor" on the remote, there's a sensor button underneath it, and the "Council" system is not running for just one reason -- twice the regulatory committee refuses to start this system. I'm calling on the regulatory committee to stop blocking the need for a system. That's the first one. The other one. Certification procedure. The state-of-the-art certificate has not yet been issued. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, I was told that there is a friend or relative of yours who is now in charge of the State Standard, please contact them to speed up the certification and standardization process. Question three. With regard to the vote. In accordance with article 84 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national MP votes exclusively in person. The violation of this procedure is nothing more than the unconstitutional adoption of laws by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Come on, colleagues. As far as the President's veto is concerned. Today I was ready, I emphasize, to sign three acts of legislation – the Ukrainian Act on Temporary Commissions, Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukraine Act on the Organization and Order of the Supreme Council, and the Ukrainian Act on the Disciplinary Statute of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information. The President of Ukraine applies the veto to these laws. My signing of these laws will be unconstitutional. I do not want unconstitutional actions to come out of my pen: “duralex – cedlex”. Therefore, fellow believers, make the right decision. The President's veto will be over, and I will fulfil my constitutional duty in accordance with article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Next, regarding the temporary investigation commission by flood. I ask the Regulatory Committee for Tuesday to consider this issue and to make a decision at the end, because it is the third or fourth time that the act is removed from the agenda. Now, about the order of the day today. A number of suggestions have been made. The first proposal is a decision to change the calendar of the third session. [[3168]] This is about what the plenary is going to announce next week. And the first half of the work, as a plenary meeting, the second half of the day is committee work. Next, three decrees are 3184, 3187 and 3194. These are decrees for the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is about the consolidation of Ukrainian national deputies by the respective committees. The next question is the draft Ukrainian State Service Act 1,400. It is suggested that we consider the first reading. The next question is the Supreme Council Rules. Next. Bill Nos. 1374 and 1374-1 is a draft law on the U.S. referendum. Before him, 3192 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008. This is true of the financing of the Paralympics. Next is the ratification issue: 0080 – The agreement between the Cabinet and the Government of the Slovak Republic, 0062 – The agreement between the Government of Ukraine and Equatorial Guinea, 0063 – the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, 0064 – the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Equatorial Guinea on foreign investment, 0065 – the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and San Marino, the appointment of the out-of-order elections of the village, rural and urban heads. It is proposed to be transferred after the decision to elect the heads, the first deputies of the committee heads. And 1 p.m. – “Victory”. In doing so, it is suggested that all acts of legislation should be considered solely by means of a reduced procedure. Is that all right, Mikola Volodymyrovich? Yes, and voting until all matters are considered. I'll put some. Please sign up for motive. Upstairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u4	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! So we still have the 3177, 3177-1 and 3177 -- up to the 15th. Sixteen decrees on the appointment of out-of-court local elections. Why can’t we consider them today? Yesterday was promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to listen carefully to the presiding officer. It has just been said that all decrees are being considered. Moreover, they are considered after considering the question of the appointment of national deputies to the relevant committees. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u7	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u8	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, the agenda is re-formed by the new actual majority of the Party of Regions and the “Timoshenko Block”. Sadly, our questions continue to be rejected, including the question of the abolition of parliamentary integrity. I notice that the question is ready to be considered. I understand that now there will be a hysteria on the part of the “regionals”, the “Timoshenko Block” that needs to be reversed by the inviolability of the President, the judges and everyone else. If they feel that way, let them vote and rule in the Constitutional Court. But I think that people want more than anything to do with themselves, first of all, by their example, to take away the parliamentary integrity. So, I tell our colleagues and people, "Our Ukraine" insists that the vote take place today, it's ready. And if all are in favor, it will go into 400 votes. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u9	Bayayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u10	I'd like to give it to Korj Viktor Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u11	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u12	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished leaders of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I beg you very much, I insist on the third day, to report to the Interim Investigation Commission on vaccination against measles and rubella. I emphasize the health of 9 million of our young people. There are a number of serious violations in this matter. We need to adopt new legislation, we need to deal with these issues, and we need the support of the Supreme Council, and we need to take this decision immediately. I am very much asking you to put this question on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u13	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u14	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind all of you, as the previous coalition, "Our Ukraine" and BUT, that I have prohibited the referral of proposals by the Constitutional Court for amendments to the Constitution and the removal of the inviolability of the national MPs, the President and the judges. Once again, I remind you that the situation is dangerous for Ukraine, because one president is killing Ukraine in all the issues that are not supported today, and the people of Ukraine are concerned about what it can create, so let's say, using its position. So today we see that another situation lies in the Supreme Council. I propose to support those proposals that then BUT and Our Ukraine did not allow themselves to be considered in the Constitutional Court as part of the removal of immunity from the national MPs, from the President and from the judges. I think this is exactly the kind of step that will be complex in solving the problem of protection and statehood, and especially, let's say, the rights and freedoms of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u15	Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, you know, I'm impressed by the President's re-establishment of the veto, which is not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. He has no right to impose the same law twice in a row. And Mr Arsenij Yatzenuk has, after the President has refused to sign the law, to sign the Law on Investigative Commissions, because it will also be anti-constitutional. I think it's time we assumed responsibility for breaking the Constitution and there's a limit to political cynicism. I ask today's agenda for all bills to be considered in reduced terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u17	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u18	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, every day you and I waste our time in the unformed order of the day. For today, you see for an hour of 20, we have not begun to consider the matter. But most importantly, MPs are limited in the drafting of these bills. They're not ready to come, and the laws are passed, and you saw that yesterday they didn't let you take a few unconstitutional things. And the laws come very, very raw. In such an organization, no one needs such legislation, Arsenija Petrovich. And such laws will not benefit society. Everyone needs to do thorough expertise and prepare. Today, our opportunities are narrowed down. Well, about your lineup. I want to let you know that the entire country that the Party of Protectors of the country has a representative, its party member in that position that you've told us about, the State-of-the-art. That's the first one. But we have no relation to the certificate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u19	Alexander Lavrinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, the head of the Supreme Council, Arsenij Petrovich, made a statement before the beginning that he would not sign the three laws of Ukraine approved by the Supreme Council, which returned to Parliament yesterday. These laws were passed in general, the comments of the President of Ukraine were considered, the veto was overridden, and for 10 days the President of Ukraine was obliged to sign and publish them. It was no longer his right but his duty. He didn't sign those laws. The Constitution of Ukraine in this case stipulates that after such a step, laws are published and become valid under the signing of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The basic law does not provide for the right of the head of State to exercise the veto twice to one law. In this regard, those who feel that a new law can only appear if a different issue appears in the registration magazine, I can say that it has nothing to do with the laws or with the law at all. Therefore, I believe that there are sufficient legal grounds to overcome the fear of the Law on Temporary Commissions and not to fear the emergence of a legal instrument for the responsibility of officials of all levels. And this law should take effect next week, and we should be guided by it in our activities. I ask the Ukrainian people's deputies to form a principled position on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, there is only one thing that will save us: If we do not know what they are doing, we must act according to the law. There's no need for arbitrary interpretation. If anyone thinks anything, it seems to me that I'm getting baptized and I don't give up. So, colleagues, the President made a renewed commitment. The veto was not the first time in the walls of Parliament. I can remind you of a number of acts of legislation promised by the head of state not only by the current president but also by the previous several times. That's why it's absolutely right today in the order of the day before it was suggested that we review the President's veto, vote, spend a few more minutes, and then we'll meet the constitutional standard. So in view of that, I'm going first to the faction leaders to figure out which way we're going: constitutional or arbitrary. If someone doesn't veto the President, I don't stand up for the President's veto, I stand up for the law, I don't sign under illegal acts. There is a Constitutional Court, which is the "a" option. Option "b" is 330 votes. Colleagues, you just have to spend 20 minutes if you have 330 votes to beat the veto. So I'm asking you not to violate the purity of our legislation. I've made my position clear. Had it not been for the veto of the President of Ukraine, I, as the Head of Parliament, would certainly have published the relevant legislation on my signature today. In view of the veto, I ask the President to consider, in accordance with the established procedure, the veto, vote and then the Head of Parliament, if such a veto is overtaken and the act is not signed by the President, will perform its duties and will sign the relevant legislation. Colleagues, we vote, please, for the order of the day that has been declared by me. Please vote. I'll give you my word, you vote. Vote. [[11:25:23]] For 321 First. Second ballot. For consideration of all short-term legislative acts that are currently on the agenda of the plenary session. Vote. All of them, all of them. [[11:25:49]] For 328 Third vote. For extending the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the time of consideration of all issues identified by today’s timetable. [[11:26:15]] For 329 Please show by factions. Region Party - 162, BUT - 146, "Our Ukraine" - 1, communists - 0, "Block of Lithuania" - 20. Colleagues. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please. 3168. Sergei Volodymyrovich, come in. They'll give it to you now. Wait. We've already established the agenda. Sergey Volodymyrovich, will you wait until Deputy Kolisnichenko speaks? Would you like to take the floor? Three minutes, please sign in. Only the chariots will give their word and come. Three minutes, we're on. Andrew Parubius, Viacheslav Kirilenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u23	Viacheslav Kirilenko “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. We understood the hatred of the visible fifth column and the hidden fifth column toward the President, who defends Ukrainian national interests. We understand your desire to give him “from seven to twelve years”, we understand your desire to send him into impeachment, we understand the desire of the fifth column and the new majority of the Party of Regions and the Block of Timoshenko to pretend that there is no institution at all. But you have to, if any of the bills are being introduced, overcome the veto, not pretend it doesn't. Now put the veto in order of the day, show the whole country how you continue to follow the instructions from the outside. At the same time, people see that the inviolability to remove yourself is what you fear, and we call it. You, for the most part, vote in favour of lifting parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u24	Valentina Matthew, or Peter Simonenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u25	Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u26	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction proposes and if the President of the Supreme Council refuses to do so, then consider why the President of the Supreme Council refuses to sign that document. And we need to consider the following. There is a right that the Constitution provides once for the exercise of the veto of the President. Yeah, there's someone there trying to hide formally, which isn't said how many times. He once exercised the veto. And in this situation, the veto has been overcome. The President has gravely violated the Constitution, also as he has violated the Constitution when he has failed to take into account the will of 4.5 million citizens who have expressed the desire to hold an immediate referendum on NATO accession or not, as on many other issues. You're setting a dangerous precedent, Arsenius Petrovich. You don't need to be interested in anyone before you do anything. You are the President of the Supreme Council and must comply with the rules and requirements of the Constitution. That's why I think you should go under.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u27	Illiac.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u28	I give you my word to Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u29	It's Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u30	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, you are a young, hopeful politician, at least for some people, and you make too many gross mistakes. We have a decision of the Constitutional Court today, it has entered into legal force and is not to be discussed. It clearly states that if the President does not sign the law, then the President of the Supreme Council is obliged to sign the bill. We have every right today, and you have to do it. The references to Kuchma, Kravchuk and others, they don't make sense for one simple reason, we don't have a case law. We work within the framework of codes, laws and the Constitution. Therefore, I ask you to respect Parliament, respect the people of Ukraine and the Constitution, and fulfil your constitutional duty as determined by the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I love the Ukrainian Parliament very much, but most of all I love the Constitution, the law and the order. It is clear that in the event that the President has returned with motivated proposals, I have no right to sign. Overcome the veto and I guarantee you that the law will be signed within the term of the Constitution. Period. Let's get down to business, Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished national deputies, in the draft decision submitted for consideration, registration number 3168, the subject of the legislative initiative of the People's Chamber of the People's Republic of Ephraim Alexander Sergiyovich, proposes to amend the calendar schedule for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, namely: the week 22-26 September, the September 22nd meeting of the Conciliation Council, the September 23rd plenary session, the committee work and the factions, the September 24th plenary session, the committee meeting and the factions, the September 25th meeting, the planning session, the committee work and the factions, the September 26th meeting, the planning session. This order, according to the author, will allow us to consider more of the bills prepared by the committees for consideration by the Supreme Council. On September 17, the Committee reviewed the project and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council for its consideration and support. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u33	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Colleagues, no questions, no need to discuss? Is it? Please sign in. Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u34	"Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." Mr. Reporter, in that calendar plan that was approved for us in July for the next week, the expected work in the districts. Obviously, for those deputies working in the districts, not just sitting in Kiev, it is clear that meetings have already been scheduled for the second week in many areas and that people are waiting there. It is very important for our People's Self-Defense Ukraine to meet with its electorates at such a difficult political moment and to hold a dialogue with its voters about the events that are taking place in the Supreme Council. We think that for those who are afraid to meet with voters who have nothing to say to them, who have nothing to explain to them about the events that are taking place in the Supreme Council today, they are also trying to do everything possible to work a week with the voters who were supposed to stop and make an incomplete even plenary week, because we are only going to work until lunch. And that's why I think I'm going to give the general opinion of all those MPs whose work with the electorate is the basis of their work, which is what we need next week, as envisaged in the calendar plan, to go to the districts, to consult with our electorate, because Parliament is looking forward to a very important and difficult decision on the creation of a new coalition, and then we can work properly and fully in the form of plenary sessions. And, at the same time, I remind you that for "Our Ukraine" the issue of cancelling parliamentary immunity remains fundamental. We have insisted and will insist that this issue be addressed as soon as possible by all the factions that promised voters that they would stand up for it in Parliament. That's why they're afraid to go to the electorate here in parliament and forget about the promises they made not too long ago, just a year ago, in the next election to parliament. I propose to reject this proposal and leave the order of things that has been foreseen in the calendar since July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u35	Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, well, I suggest you be less emotional, because we're considering Parliament's work. I want to talk to my colleagues from "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense." Well, if you want to go to the districts, please go work with the electorate. You don't work in Parliament anyway. We'll work here without you. That's the first one. The other one. Of course, we need to continue the work of the Supreme Council today. We have to pay our debts to the people. You see how the Supreme Council worked before that. We finally found a constructive model of the work of the Supreme Council when we overcome the veto, when we work and adopt the new laws that the state needs today. Moreover, fellow believers, let us not give in to provocation or repress the veto. We're driving ourselves into the corner when the President will send us both a third veto and a fourth veto. And we're going to get everyone together to vote on the President's veto in the morning. And he's going to sit in his office and smile at how the Supreme Council works. It's the same thing we're going to get what the President is doing with the Constitutional Court right now. When he directs a decree on the unconstitutionality of government acts. After that, when the Constitutional Court has previously ruled that there are no claims against the government, the President withdraws his decree and makes the same decision the next day. Let's stop this opportunity for the President to abuse his right. Arsenius Petrovich, you must sign the law and the Supreme Council must evaluate such actions by the Head of the Supreme Council. I want to remind you that this is the procedure that has been drawn up to prevent the abuse of the President of the Supreme Council. Let's not get down on our knees in front of the bank right now and let's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u37	Please vote. Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, it is clear that there is now a redistribution of authority. This plenary week wasn't enough for that. Of course, it will be the next plenary week, no matter what the need to communicate with the electorate is. It remains to be expected and expected that the next plenary week will be used to enable the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the price situation in the food market, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will address the housing and utility tariffs issue and express its position on this issue. It is clear that in the next plenary week, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be considering the 2009 budget. It is quite obvious that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider making changes to the 2008 budget, and those generous promises that we should think about people will be implemented. Because if you look at the schedule for this plenary session, you're wonderful, respectable colleagues, you see, and you see that there's practically no question about people. There is a struggle for power, and there is a struggle to identify those positions that have already been achieved, including in economic activities. Note what decisions are made this week. And lastly, about whether to sign or pass the veto on the laws that the President of Ukraine is committed to. I would like to ask the honourable colleagues to bring the matter of reforming the Supreme Council to a logical conclusion: form a coalition, select the new Supreme Council Head and he will sign everything you want in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u39	It's going to be manual, it's going to be easier to work, it's going to read, it's going to read, it's going to know, it's going to be a problem -- it knows the Constitution. Colleagues, are there any questions about this decision? None. Vote. [[11:39:48]] For 325 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I beg of you, emotions have been cleaned up. Next order 3184. Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, the committee at its meeting on September 17th considered the application made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavlovnik Viktorovich, a member of the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, for his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self - Government. Taking into account that the calculated quota of the members of the Yulia’s House of Representatives, Timoshenko, on the Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, was not fully used, the committee decided to support the application of the Pavlovenko People’s Deputy and to submit a corresponding draft decree to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration. Please support the committee's decision. I'd like to remind you of draft regulation 3184 for the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u41	Colleagues, no questions? I won't. Please vote in favour of Decree 3184. [[11:41:11]] For 336 Decision taken. Next order 3187. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear Arseniy Petrovic, distinguished colleagues, the Committee at its meeting on September 17th, discussed the statement made by National Deputy Lemza Vladimir Dmitrovic, a member of the deputy faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko” about his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration. Taking into account that the calculated quota for the European integration committee for the Yulia Bill of Dept. Timoshenko in the High Council Committee on European Integration has not been fully used, the Committee decided to support the application of the Lemza People's Deputy and to submit to the Supreme Council an appropriate draft decision of the Supreme Council, draft Decree 3187. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u43	No questions? Thank you. Please vote in favour of Decree 3187 as a basis and as a whole. [[11:42:14]] For 338 Decision taken. The next order is 3194.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee at its meeting on September 19th considered the submission of the head of the Lithuanian deputy faction “Block of Lithuania” Vladimir Mihajlovich Litvina and the statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Sinchenko about his election as deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. The deputy head of State Building and Local Self-Government was elected the People’s Deputies of the Philippines, as you recall, from the MP’s “Lituin’s Block, ” who suspended his term of office on May 23, 2008. According to part of article 78 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the post of deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government is part of the “Block of Lithuania” faction. Taking into account the requirements of part seven of the seventh article of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and part seven of article 78 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee decided to support the submission of the Head of the Lithuanian Dept. “Block of Lithuania” by Vladimir Mihajlovich Lithuania on the election of Ukraine's national deputy, Mr. Sinchenk, as deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government and submitted a corresponding draft regulation to the Supreme Council, draft regulation 3194. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u45	No questions? Please vote on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of Law 3194. [[11:44:02]] For 353 Decision taken. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, please sit down. The following bill (1400) is being promulgated, the draft Law on State Service. National Deputy of Ukraine Janukovic, Victor Fedorovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your view is a very important draft law, because this important audience does not need to be convinced of the meaning of the management organization throughout the country, on all fronts, from local to top. The draft Act on State Service has been developed with the aim of implementing the world standards of public service and ensuring the effective practical performance of the tasks and functions of the State. The introduction of the law will contribute to the creation of a more effective public and legal institution whose main functions will be to prepare proposals on public policy issues, to ensure its implementation and to provide services to individuals and legal persons. The aim of the adoption of the law is to build a professional and effective public service in Ukraine that will ensure the effective and effective functioning of public authorities and the provision of quality services to citizens. The main tasks of the law are: the need to improve the prestige of the public service, to regulate the status of a public official at the level of responsibility placed on it, to separate political positions with the positions of public officials, to improve the quality of services provided by public servants, to introduce a transparent mechanism of acceptance into the public service, to establish a politically neutral public service institution, to encourage public servants to pursue career growth, to put in place an effective mechanism to prevent corruption, to create conditions for transparent action by public authorities, to increase social and material protection of public officials. Unlike the current Ukrainian State Service Act, the bill proposes to introduce a new procedure for entry into state service.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u47	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u48	By entering into a public legal agreement between a State in the person of a public authority and a person entering the public service or reappointed to serve as a public official. It is also proposed to introduce a new post, which is the staff manager responsible to the head of the public authority for ensuring the functioning of the public service. Responsible and supervised by a specially authorized central authority on matters of public service and appointed for a term of five years. With a view to improving the qualifications of government officials, systematically updating professional knowledge, acquiring and improving the practical skills and skills required for the performance of government officials, responsibilities for office, including language policy in the law, vocational training, retraining, skills development, and the assessment of the results of the service activity of an individual study program is not uncommon once a year. In order to improve the socio-economic security of public officials, the bill provides for the right to receive a debt-free loan for the purchase or construction of housing. The adoption of the new Public Service Act will lead to a major step towards a comprehensive reform of the public service and the establishment of an administrative space of professional, political neutral and effective public service that will ensure the effective and effective functioning of public authorities and the provision of qualified and quality services to individuals and legal persons. The draft law removes discrimination by a prominent and territorial principle while ensuring equal opportunities for entry into any category. The law guarantees the principle of equal pay for equal work. The adoption and entry into force of the new Law on State Service will be an important political step and will serve both the internal interests of society and the State and foreign policy objectives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u49	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. Please have a seat. Olga Borisovna Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, on June 4, the committee considered the bill and unfortunately we suggest that it be sent for further work because it contains a number of important novels that do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. As far as I know, the Chief State Service is now preparing some proposals for the improvement of the bill. I cannot deny that there is some progress and positive direction in this bill, but I want to focus your attention on the main disadvantages of this bill. First, the bill contradicts the Labour Code, determining that a civil servant is supposed to be a person who is only going to be in public-law relations with the state and will enter into a service agreement that is incompatible with labour law. The bill does not make it mandatory to acquire Ukrainian citizenship for a civil servant. Regrettably, this bill violates the Constitution, including the rights of the Cabinet of Ministers by appointment and the formation of a central executive body to regulate matters in the public service. This is article 116. The central authority of the executive branch, which is to regulate matters of the public service, gives enormous authority. He's getting some kind of super-cabinal status, I'd say, because somehow he's becoming mediocrely independent of the Cabinet of Ministers. Furthermore, article 150 is violated, which narrows down the rights of the Constitutional Court and gives the central authority of the executive authority the right to interpret the rules of the law. I want to say that our speaker of the Supreme Council is narrowing down because he's in a conflict here. This bill is being introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u52	The bill introduces such concepts as the position of head of the apparatus and the position of head of the staff of the apparatus. In addition, the Speaker of Parliament has the right to assign rank to the first category. So the bill is not supported by our committee, the bill is not supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. All the committees are proposing that he be sent for further work, and the Committee on Budget Affairs has made its observations on the terms of validity of the bill because it does not have financial and economic justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u53	Two "for", two "against". Other Godsisters.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! We insist that today's parliament uphold this law in the first reading and that's why. Great political perceptions in our country prove that the vachanal and political Sabbath, which began with the change of thousands of civil servants in changing power in the country, is a system that destroys government in Ukraine in general. This law, which is now being passed, meets all modern European standards and public service standards. With regard to the impossibility of dropping thousands of high-ranking bureaucrats just because the authorities had changed in the country. This law will not allow for more camaraderie. When maids, daughters - in - law, or lovers are placed in positions of professional authority in the country. This law will no longer allow for the abuse and violation of the rights of civil servants. In addition, we insist that any European country introduces the concept of special powers and the special responsibility of a civil servant. And government officials in no European country are subject to 100 percent of normal labour legislation, because it is a person with special status, including special guarantees of exemption, forced cuts in states, and so on. So we think that those moments that may actually need extra effort can be improved in the work of the law, but it must be adopted today. We can no longer abuse the thousands of government officials who wait every day for the new political authorities to appear and be removed from work for no reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u55	Igor Sharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear Arseni Petrovich, an extremely serious bill and an opinion on this point will be expressed by the leader of our faction, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u57	Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, we will be supporting this bill in the first reading, given that we really need to bring back to normal the many problems associated with the public service. I'd like to support the previous conclusion in that part that we need to overcome this kind of nesting pattern of frame placement. I am convinced that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is the Deputy Corps, will set the first example. Next. I'd like to emphasize that we have this picture as soon as the power changes, they're clearing everyone, and I want to stress that all of the people who are more or less professional. Those who are dispossessed appeal to the law, appeal to the public, but the same picture is observed when repositioning. Let us be frank about the fact that all those who held appropriate positions were involved in this by clearing up their opponents. We must do it in such a way that people do not suffer. We actually have the last core of those bureaucrat officials in a good way today who know what to do. “Balom is ruled by aggressive grayness” - when it is necessary to either enroll in a political party at the right time, or at the right time shout out a slogan, put on a symbol. On the other hand, I would like to point out, Mr Arsenija Petrovich, when we are considering the State Service Act, that we should also consider other laws that apply to the amendments to the State Service. And I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u59	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u60	And I hope and sincerely hope that, when this draft law is being finalized for second reading, we will consider the proposals on the need to grant the status of a civil servant to those who actually perform an important public function: teachers, medics, cultural workers and others, and the public service will not be confined solely to the Cave Hills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u61	Stojko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u62	Thank you. Ivan Stojko “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”. In fact, the law, as far as I'm concerned, is quite interesting, but again, it will create a vacchanal in general in the public service. Why? First of all, there is an administrator on the spot today. It provides for the transfer of virtually power to the governing staff, who will be able to do so unilaterally, and there are many reasons why it is possible to release government officials themselves, in practice, that they will not be protected. The other one. It raises, say, the age price: 60 years of women and 65 men.” Today, young people have no place to work, and if we do so, those young people who will build the Ukrainian state will not be able to become civil servants. The next one's a bet. Again, we should talk about the prestige of a civil servant. The bill refers to two minimum salaries. So who's going to the state service without social protection? And we can keep this line going, but most importantly, for me, it's citizenship. Imagine, not a Ukrainian citizen in any area is going to run either the area or the area, and it's going to create, well, I'm not going to say what that's going to lead to, but it's going to cause a loss, as it does to me the status of the state, and so we can have negative consequences. I am absolutely against this law and our faction will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u63	Colleagues, the bill has been discussed. There are two suggestions: the first proposal made by the committee to reject the bill. I propose to put to the vote the issue of the adoption of the act in the first reading, if it does not pass, then, of course, it will be rejected. The honourable Ukrainian national deputies, it is clear that this act of legislation needs substantial work, but this story has been going on for several years with regard to the adoption of the Act on State Service. Sadly, the entire government service has become dependent on a different color. Anyone who came here has been washed clean, picked up new ones, knows how to write, does not know how to read, but is essential to work in one authority of the government. So we need to move this visa immediately, and I propose to vote in favour of the first reading of the bill. Colleagues, we're voting on draft State Service Act No. 1400 on acceptance as a basis. [[12:00:26]] For 361 Decision taken. Is this a break now? On Friday, we do not have a break, until the first. Is it? Comrades, is there an offer to work out how you view it? Thank you. We'll be out early, comrades. So, come on. Shall we go to the Rules now, or shall we put the election on hold? Let's go for the election. Sergei Petrovich, Upper.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u64	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at the September 17th meeting discussed the issue of the early termination of the powers of 16 rural city heads, namely: The Jablonov village head of the Bousky district of Lviv, at his own request in connection with the application; Wessel village head of the Sack district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, according to his own wishes in connection with the application; Osinov village head of the Luhansk district of Novopskov, in connection with the acquisition of the legal force of the indictment of the court; Seminal village head of the district of Poltava, according to his own wishes in connection with the application; The Pishchen village head of the Kirovograd district of Dolin, at his own request, in connection with the application; The biological village head of the Krolevetsky district of Sumska District, if you will, in relation to the application; Dniprov, head of the Bilozer district of Hersson, according to his own wishes in connection with the application; The Georgian head of the Golovanov district of Kirovograd, at his own request in connection with the application; Squire's village head of the Mid-Budd district of Suma, in connection with death; The Retinian village head of the Skruljevice district of Sumo, at his own request in connection with the application; The will of the village head of the Jovkow district of Lviv, at his own request in connection with the application; The Shabelnik village head of the Zelotani region of the Cherkas region, at his own request in connection with the application; The cultural head of the Sambir district of Lviv, at his own request in connection with the application; The Shrimp village head of the Kharkiv district of Kharkov, at his own request.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u65	Sergey Petrovich, can I kick your ass?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u67	There is a suggestion to put it to a vote immediately so that it does not read three times the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u68	And the problem, I want to say, is that all the elections under the law are proposed to be scheduled for November 30, 2008.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u69	Colleagues, vote number 3177. Right, the number? Please, have a seat. About the appointment of the consecutive election of the Yablunov village head. Vote. [[12:04:17]] For 311 Decision taken. Decree 3177-1 on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Wesselian Rural Head. Vote. [[12:04:39]] For 312 Order No. 3177-2 on the appointment of the Osinski Rural Head in turn. [[12:04:58]] For 331 Decision taken. Decision of the Supreme Council on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Veselodilski Rural Head, 3177-3. [[12:05:18]] For 333 Decision taken. Supreme Council regulation No. 3177-4 on the appointment of the Pishnian Rural Head in turn. [[12:05:39]] For 339 Decision taken. Decree 3177-5 on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Bilogriv Rural Head. [[12:05:58]] For 344 Order No. 3177-6 on the appointment of the Dniprovian Rural Head election. [[12:06:16]] For 348 Decision taken. 3177-7 on the appointment of the election of Georgia's head. Vote. [[12:06:35]] For 342 3177-8 on the appointment of the Steakhead election. Vote. [[12:06:53]] For 348 Order 3177-9 on the appointment of the reutinian head election. Vote. [[12:07:12]] For 353 Decision taken. Order of the Supreme Council 3177-10 on the appointment of the successive election of the Wille-Higher Rural Head. Vote. [[12:07:32]] For 344 Decision taken. Order of the Supreme Council 3177-11 on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Shabelnik village head. Vote. [[12:07:51]] For 345. Decision taken. 3177-12 on the appointment of the next election of the Kulczyk Rural Head. Vote. [[12:08:10]] For 342 Decision taken. Order of the Supreme Council 3177-13 on the appointment of the Skripaijski Rural Head election. Vote. [[12:08:29]] For 341 Decision taken. Order 3177-14 on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Kožan village head. Vote. [[12:08:48]] For 345. Decision taken. Order of the Supreme Council 3177-15 on the appointment of the successive election of the First-Major City Head. Vote. [[12:09:08]] For 340. Decision taken. The question has been completed. We turn to the next issue of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Sergei Volodymyrovich Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u70	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Honorary Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, was ordered by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on September 17, 2008 in the case of the constitutional submission of 105 Ukrainian national deputies for the official interpretation of the provisions of part six, seventh, ninth, of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine. on the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined by the unconstitutional Supreme Council of Ukraine on 8 April 2008 as the interim regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This, I remind you, is already the second attempt to paralyze the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by declaring its Rules unconstitutional. In the absence of time, I will not immediately analyze the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, although there is something to talk about. I would like to remind my colleagues that on 4 September this year, the Supreme Council has repeatedly adopted, with the veto of the President, the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, inter alia, stipulates that the order of action of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as provided for in articles 83, 85, 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine. However, the President did not sign and return it on September 18 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This time, the President believes that the reason for the return of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is that after a re-examination of the veto, this law was signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a new issue was put in place. I would like to point out that this position of the President is contrary to the requirements of article 88, paragraph 3, and article 94, part one, of the Constitution of Ukraine. As well as the Constitutional Court's decision on the order of voting and the re-examination of the Supreme Council's laws of July 7, 1997, according to which its legal effect on the veto is to abolish the results of the vote in favour of the law in general and to open the procedure for its review in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, in overcoming the veto, the law is repeatedly adopted by the Supreme Council as a whole, and the acts adopted by the Supreme Council are bound to be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to ensure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine fulfils its constitutional powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u72	Thank you. The committee is also prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, for your consideration in accordance with article 85, paragraph 15, of the Constitution of Ukraine, of the draft Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are prepared on the basis of the provisions of the Provisional Rules and the amendments adopted in the first reading, the registration number of the Decree 2012. Today, on September 19th, the Committee unanimously submits a bill to the Supreme Council and asks the Supreme Council to support it. [[18 members supported this proposal]] I'd like to add to that, dear fellows. A proposal is made for the unanimous decision of the leaders of the MPs to supplement the Rules with such provisions. Part of the first article 28 should be supplemented by paragraph 11 of the following content: “The chairman shall declare a recess of up to 30 minutes, but not more than one recess during one plenary meeting.” And complete the Rules with the seventh chapter of the “final position” with the following sentence: “This Rules take effect from the date of its adoption”. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u73	Colleagues, the proposal just made by Sergey Volodymyrovich gives the Supreme Council Head the right to declare recesses on his own, is a logical technical proposition, because now the breaks that we announce are not regulated. The second request is what it is. We have just discussed with Alexander Volodymyrovich: we need to synchronize the terms set out in the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the report and responsibility of the government and the Rules. I'm asking that this goes under the transcript because there's 10 days there, we've got 30 days, remember? We're already in this legal shit. Therefore, under the transcript, to synchronize the terms defined by the Rules to comply with the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, I guess that's all there is to it, isn't it? The rest will be cleared when the following changes are made. Two “for, two“ against, ” is there a desire to write? You don't? Colleagues, please vote on the basis and the whole adoption of Bill No. 3195 with the rights just stated on the Supreme Council Rules. [[12:14:20]] For 349 Let's see the factions. Decision taken. Please sit down. The next bill is 3192: Amendments to the State Budget Act. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please. Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, distinguished radios and TV sets! Today, I am introducing the Law on Changes in the State Budget to Distinguish the Sports Championships of the Summer XXI Paralympic Games and their Coaches. The Act provides for an increase of 38 million to encourage our winners. These additional costs are proposed by increasing the value added tax of 64 million items imported into Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have all admired and admired the 21st Paralympic Games. I suggest that we now materialize our admiration with a 100 per cent vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u75	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. Please report from the committee: National MP Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u76	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues at its meeting on 19 September reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2008 and amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Derkac, Pecklusenk, Lášk at Registration No. 3192 from 18.09.2008. [[Protocol No. 26]] The bill is designed to ensure the remuneration of disabled athletes, champions, seasoned XXI Paralympic players and their coaches on a higher scale in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 06.08.2008, No. 704 “To encourage disabled athletes and their coaches”. The bill is intended to increase the cost of remuneration for disabled athletes, champions, seasoned 21st Paralympic Games and their coaches by 38 million 757.9 thousand dollars compared to the 2008 budget for the increase in the value added tax from imported goods to Ukraine. Thus, the specified bill is balanced with regard to the budgetary indicators. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2008 and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies Derkac, Pecklusenko, Láško at registration number 3192 on the basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u77	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. We write two "for", two "against". National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u78	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. I don't think it's necessary to discuss this for a long time, and these brave people really need to thank and thank you for their courageous feat at the Beijing Paralympic Games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u79	The list of speakers is completed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on draft 3192 – amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008 and amending certain legislations of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:19:03]] For 391 Dear colleagues, for 391. We've adopted as a whole the Law on Change to the State Budget in the Payments to the Champions Paralympics, who came to us with medals. The next issue of order of the day draft Law on the All-U.S. referendum is under review. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Lavrinovich, reports on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, your point is that a draft law that has already been considered in this sessionary room has also been discussed in detail in a violent opposition to finding a way out of a situation where there was a real threat that legislative decisions to amend the Basic Law would be approved outside the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This bill did not receive support in the session hall for the previous session. He's been reintroduced in this session. And now we're going back to the question that's mandatory for the country, because we have to legally ensure the right of Ukrainian citizens to a direct democracy, to participate directly in the resolution of state issues. Without this mechanism, a country cannot be called a democratic one. That law that we have inherited from the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic cannot work at all today, not only because most of its articles conflict with the current Constitution but also because there are no institutions that should have made decisions at that time as drafted in 1991. Therefore, the need for this law is obvious, it sets out all the necessary requirements for us to be able to organize the entire electoral system, as it relates to the amendment to the Constitution by the participation of the Supreme Council and the appointment of the President of Ukraine of the relevant referendum, as it relates to possible changes in the territory of Ukraine, issues that need to be raised at the initiative of Ukrainian citizens in order to ensure the inescapable right that if more than three million Ukrainian citizens have taken the initiative to make it the subject of an all-Ukrainian referendum. [[A precedent, by the way, that was already with our neighbors.]] All of these questions are settled in such a way that we get a real-world mechanism in Ukraine. I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u81	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we still had Bill 1374-1 of the People's Deputies of Klukkowski. Please proceed with the procedure of Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u82	Honourable Alexander Volodymyrovich, in view of the fact that MPs have just received a day’s schedule for the session, the one offered by the Kremlin majority each morning, of course, is unable to do what is in order of the day. Yuri Bogdanovich should be here in two or three minutes, and I would like to postpone voting on this bill to allow him to present his bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the able-bodied deputies in the Chamber are the majority, so I invite you to the floor of the first deputy head of the Parliamentary Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Olga Borisovna Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I miss the fact that there is no colleague of Klukkowski, but I may be able to help the hall to decide a little. On March 18, the committee considered both bills and unanimously concluded that it was necessary to propose to the Hall to adopt these two bills, both worthy of taking two bills, and to unite them into one and to submit a joint bill to the Hall. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u85	We write two "for", two "against". National Deputy Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u86	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. The absence of a colleague of Klukkowski's in the hall is just artificial, it's an attempt to torpedo the adoption of this law. So I urge all my colleagues to support the committee's proposal and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u87	National MP Herman Hanna Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u88	I believe that the faction, the deputies of the faction of our Ukraine, should stop trying to hinder the effective functioning of our entire Parliament. We understand the importance of the adoption of the Law on the Universal Referendum. This will enable citizens to decide for themselves the most important issues of our lives. So trying to prevent this from happening because of not going to work or somewhere, I think it's a crime against the Ukrainian people. And it's our Ukraine's job to answer, to answer to the voters for not working, for not going into the hall and not letting others work.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u89	People's deputy Knjazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u90	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the national MP Klukkowski is in his place of work and it would be very logical if you had the courage to apologize to him. And what a man just didn't know is that, in fact, the bill that is considered a new subject. You'll see what they say is that the text of the law is being distributed as early as 05.02.2008. So what's the new law? This is about what has really been submitted under another registration number, in accordance with the Rules and in accordance with the Constitution, the bills and the person who has submitted the alternative bill have only just learned by being on his working place on the committee that he has been put into the agenda. It takes a lot of nerve to have him publicly accused even now of not knowing that, contrary to the Rules and the Constitution and his will, he personally, as a deputy, was placed in the agenda. So we insist that we stop this nonsense now and give the floor to Klukkowski as the author of the alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u91	In this discussion of Bill 1304 is concluded and I invite the author of an alternative bill, the People's MP of Klukkowski, to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, and even more so, distinguished voters! This circus, which is now happening in the Supreme Council, I'm sorry, I can't call it anything else. These screams, too, are these accusations that someone isn't working. But remember who blocked the Supreme Council for six months, in turn two of the present factions of the majority, and now they have a conscience to accuse someone of not working? Ask yourself, where are your factions leaders now in the hall! It's a crime! I want to repeat the words of the deputy from the faction of the Regions: “This is a crime against the Ukrainian people.” But I want to look at the other side of the circus that's going on right now. Dear colleagues! I don't know what rule we're using right now, maybe because it's voted just now, but it's not signed yet, or whether it's declared unconstitutional twice. But there are also traditions of parliamentaryism, not just the Ukrainian Parliament, which is that the parliamentary procedure is democratic and that creates conditions, first for equal consideration of various bills, and secondly for compliance with the established procedure. A lot of smart people said democracy was a procedure. My colleague Knazevitch absolutely told me the pure truth about the bill of referendums that I introduced and the author of which I am to be considered today, I learned half an hour ago. I tried to pick up the text by looking at what was still a few questions before it was due to be considered, but today we have all printed for five minutes, I'm sorry, I haven't been able to make it to the hall. Now essentially the bill. No, not yet. Both Bills 1374 and 1374-1 were considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They're both rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u93	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u94	Mr. Chairman, if one of the rapporteurs reported two minutes, it does not mean that there should be a limited regulatory right of another reporter. So I'm asking for 10 minutes, as it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u95	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich, if you were to come to work on time, you would know what has been declared.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u96	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I've been at work all day.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u97	Turn off the microphone. Let's write two, two, against that question. Dear National MPs, the simplified procedure for dealing with matters voted on all matters of the agenda, and so the reporter in the first question had two minutes in which he was involved. Therefore, a change of attitude requires a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please move on to the discussion. Deputies Deputies Deputies Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u98	I would like to draw attention to the fact that author Lavrinović's bill and author Klutkowski's bill have already been considered in the Hall, discussed on the Committee, and the Committee has decided that the author should work on a single project. The fact is that each project and the other have a very positive and immediate need for immediate acceptance. But some things conflict with the Constitution, for example, in Bill 1374-1 there is a proposal for the Constitution to change and adopt a referendum, and we know that in the Constitution itself the procedure for its changes is written and it does not provide for an exclusive referendum, there are some only positions that can be approved by referendum. That's why we propose that the House vote today, adopt both the first and the second drafts, and redraft and venetes, literally in a short time, the only bill from these two authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u99	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u100	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Well, I'm for Klukkowski's bill to be rolled out for one reason only, even though I'm not really considering it, for what he calls the Supreme Council a circus and that's what he calls democracy. And you noticed how they went to the opposition with the President, how they got excited. Well, hysterically true, thanks for the tip, otherwise you won't. That is, it is now a matter of actual laws that are necessary, which really regulate public decision-making, and we have been faced with it since we were unable to make a decision on the referendum. And today, Klukkowski will suddenly find out that he's only going to have to review the law today, and he's starting to remember feverishly what he wrote there, so he's been written to him in the President's Secretariat, so he doesn't know the essence of the bill. I therefore support the adoption of Bill 1374 of Lavrinović on first reading and the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u101	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u102	I ask you to give the floor to Mr. Klukkowski, let him explain the substance of his bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u103	Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u104	Thank you very much. I'll be speaking in a moment. But I ask the Chief to point out that I also have the right to a replica and I ask that you give me this opportunity at the end of the discussion. So as I was coming out, preparing for the rostrum right now, I was trying to find the common ground that was in both bills, and I wanted to propose from the rostrum what Colleague Podgorny said. To try to do what really benefits the Ukrainian people and to develop Ukrainian constitutionalism. The discussion that was held in March was useful, I think, for everyone and, above all, for me. I'm working now, to be honest. Because unlike a colleague who's just been leaking saliva out of his mouth, I'm working on my bills. And I don't have them written for me by the Department of Justice or the President's Department. Everything I serve, I write myself. That's why I wanted to offer it. However, I would like to point out that the bill was proposed to include in the agenda, not mine, but the bill of colleague Lavrinovich last night, without mine as an alternative. This morning only one bill was considered on the Conciliation Council. This is the creation of dictatorial working conditions on the part of the present proselyte majority. This is a violation of all the basic principles of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, democracy, and in general the rule of law that prevails here today, in this room, and for which this hall should be called a circus, not a Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you. I remind you that I have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u105	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u106	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I have carefully read both the bill and Alexander Lavrinović and Jury Klukkowski. I can say that the bill, which is presented by the representative of the pro-American minority Yuri Klukkowski, is not in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine. It may or may not suit someone's interests, but it's not Ukrainian. Ukraine doesn't smell like it here. The National Interests of Ukraine are in accordance with the Law of Lavrinović. Unlike the Klukkowski bill, it is the Law of Lavrinović that provides for the establishment of the legal principles of the organization and the conduct of the Ukrainian referendum. It is the Law of Lavrinović that provides for the definition of the concept of the All-Ukrainian referendum, the basic principles of the All-Ukrainian referendum, both in the National Initiative and in the All-Ukrainian referendum on amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, to approve its new edition of the All-Ukrainian referendum on change in the territory of Ukraine. It is in the Law that Lavrinović proposes to impose legal restrictions on the holding of the All-U.S. referendum, on the participation of citizens in the U.S. referendum, on the principles of financial security for the preparation and conduct of the U.S. referendum. It is the Law of Lavrinović that aims to improve the mechanism for ensuring the implementation by Ukrainian citizens of the right to participate in one of the forms of direct democracy in the referendum. I appeal to you, distinguished colleagues, not to vote again, not to support the bill of pro-American minorities, the pronatov minority of Mr. Klukkowski and to support the law of Lavrinović, which is in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u107	Colleagues, a replica of Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u108	Well, another demonstration of compliance with the rules of procedure. Two in, two in. Really? You heard two about? That's how law is used, and that's how it's abused. Now I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the order of the day that is given today, the draft of the national MP Lavrinovich is mentioned. There is no mention of the Klukkowski People's Deputy's Project. This is another evidence of why at the last minute only information appears that a national MP will report his bill. And the third. I understand what's going on. And I believe that the voters of the Ukrainian and Ukrainian people understand very well what is happening. A majority is being created today to review the basic constitutional principles of the Ukrainian state system. All that will be done will be the elimination of the Ukrainian status of the state, the transition to Russian or at least a parallel second Russian language, which is the programming principle of the Party of Regions and Communists. And when someone thinks there's a representative here. Let me finish because I had two lines, I was mentioned twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u109	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u110	So if a representative of the pro-Cremian majority of Russian blames me for being an American agent, then I'm sorry, I've always been an agent of the Ukrainian people, and not you, Moscals, teach me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. There's a proposal, the first one for Bill 1374 and 1374-1. Yuri Bogdanovich, we included 1374-1 after we had a discussion with the faction leaders, because it wasn't there in the first place. Yuri Bogdanovich, I know everything, you know the situation. The other one. With regard to the voting procedure. In that case, if Bill 1374 is not supported in the first reading, I will put 1374 to the vote on the 1374-1 alternative bill. I would like to vote on the adoption in the first reading of Bill 1374, the draft Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum introduced by the Ukrainian national MP Lavrinović. [[12:40:22]] For 333 The decision is made in the first reading. Dear colleagues, please show by factions. Region Party – 169, BUT – 116, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, I did not simply go out on your behalf, but I did so on the Constitutional Court's decision to sign this act of law. I ask that a dawn without emotion, without shouting, you listen to a formal legal side that is not political, and then you make the right or wrong decision. Thus, I read: “In accordance with the legal position of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, as expressed in the decision of 7 July 1998 No. 11-RP, the term ‘law’ is used in part four of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine in the definition of a legally complete and structurally completed legal act which is adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with its powers and does not mean a separate part of the law or amendment thereto. Thus, all enforcements, including the adoption date, the number, the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are essential elements. Why am I reading this to you? Let's hypothetically say that the Head of the Supreme Council will now violate the Constitution and sign this act of legislation. I'm giving you a guarantee that it will go to the COP and that there will be a direct constitutional basis for declaring these acts unconstitutional. So once again, I ask you with one more request: the President's veto, you have a majority. Don't create a notoriously unconstitutional act, and don't push me into a notoriously unconstitutional act. Well, if it wasn't for this Kosovo decision, I understand we might have a discussion. But the Constitutional Court explained 10 years ago because this decision by the COP was based on exactly the same reasons that we have today under these laws. So there was a veto, and then the COP was looking at it. Well, where do you put me on unconstitutional action? Take a decision, overcome the veto, it will meet the requirements of the Constitution, and then there will be no questions about the constitutionality or the constitutionality of the act. Colleagues, let's move on to ratifications. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But there's no motive. Colleagues, come on. What are the motives? Under the Referendum Act? All right, sign up, three minutes. I read this position specifically to clean up politics. I read you the decision of the COP, the Constitutional Court, the highest body of constitutional jurisdiction. Period. And everything else is free debate. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u112	Please pass the word to John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u113	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u114	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! When analysing the results of the vote, it shows that Yuri Kostenko of the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” voted in favour of this bill. I testify that there was no Kostenek in the hall, no one voted. So I ask either to check this same system, or to cancel the results of this vote, at least Kostenka. There's no skeleton in the room. So I think it's from the same line as when they faked the agenda, when they didn't let Klukkowski report the bill. In this case, they are already making sure that there is no zero in “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. I think it's a forgery, a disgrace, and it can't be in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u115	Mikola Kravchenko. Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u116	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The Communist faction voted for the Supreme Council to begin the final drafting of the Implementation Act, the referendum. Why? Because today the people who have the right under the Constitution to be a source of power and a holder of sovereignty are excluded from the formation of public policies. And while the elections are held when the lists are purchased, when people are intimidated, they are blackmailed when they falsify the elections, when the presidential team has blocked the decision-making and establishment of the voter register, it is obvious that practically the people of Ukraine are completely excluded from the formation of both domestic and foreign policies. And we Communists are convinced that this law must be passed immediately so that we can hold referendums on fundamental issues today, and remove the problems of conflict in Ukraine. The question of joining NATO, the question of the second State language, the question of the single economic space are those issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u117	Quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u118	Paul Mokchan, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, I am addressing those who have taken part in the vote from our bloc. Because the arguments that my previous speaker just made would have to warn you: What do you vote for? This is even a question that was not properly discussed in the faction, that suddenly comes up behind the rostrum, and we are destroying Ukraine. We're putting those mechanisms in place, those bombs that don't depend on Ukraine. I beg you, I appeal to you, stop destroying the process that has begun. Because referendums are the shortest way to destroy constitutional principles. We understand that we need 3 million. That's not 47 million. Think about it, because you're in an inertial period today. Let's overcome this inertia and think about the future of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u119	Colleagues, let's move on to the simplified procedure of the 0080 Bills and beyond. I beg you, Deputy Chief of Security Gerasimenko Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u120	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You have before you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on mutual protection of information with limited access and the draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the submission for ratification of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the said international agreement. The agreement was designed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in connection with the Slovak side’s proposal to denounce the previously signed Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the mutual protection of classified information. The proposal by a foreign party is related to the need to harmonize the legislation of the Slovak Republic with the standards of European cooperation and to bring agreements into line with the requirements of national legislation in the field of protection of information with limited access. This international agreement is prepared with the aim of creating legal principles and cooperation between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic. The agreement is fully in line with international practice and is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. No additional expenditure is foreseen from the State Budget on the implementation of this law and agreement. Ratification does not entail adopting new or amending existing legislation in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u121	Please sit down. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u122	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the Committee on European Integration considered the bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on mutual protection of information with limited access at its meeting on 3 September this year and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the law be accepted as a basis and as a whole. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also has no objection to ratifying the law. We believe that this law will suit Ukraine's national interests, and the ratification of this agreement will help improve efficiency and operationality in the exchange of information with limited access between Ukraine and Slovakia. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u123	Thank you. Colleagues, no wish? None. Is it? Please sign in. Please. Log in, log in. [[B in m in s a l in]] Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuka Committee. Oleg Lazko, BUT. Celebrities of the Olinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u124	Honorary colleagues, The Yulia Timoshenko Block, clearly supports the agreement, but when it comes to voting here in the House of Parliament representing a representative of the Ukrainian Security Service, there is a logical question as to whether this agreement is being presented here and put to the vote, in order to be executed and implemented, whether the approach will be the same in the Ukrainian Security Service, which, according to the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Code, particularly when it comes to considering the incomprehensible nature of the ballot from the President's Secretariat, which is called a loud statement of crime when the Prime Minister is accused of treason. And I want to remind you that the Criminal Procedure Law requires a clear decision within ten days of the application for crime. And today, the Ukrainian Security Service could publish data on what decisions have been made on this claim and whether the criminal case has been really violated, whether the criminal case has been refused, or whether the Ukrainian Security Service has gone completely beyond the law and is now operating illegally? And another question arises to the reporter: where exactly is the conditional manager of this department? Is he firmly and deliberately afraid and ashamed to come to a parliament where his authority is zero? Or how does he direct these authorities, which authority is there among the subordinates? As for the proposed agreement, it is clear that we will support it. It is only, unfortunately, that the Ukrainian Security Service, like the President's Secretariat and the President himself, is demonstrating a deliberate and deliberate violation of both the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u125	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u126	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction will not vote in favour of ratifying this treaty, since we will today consistently stand up for our position to defend Ukraine's national interests. As we know, the Slovak Republic is a member of NATO, and in these circumstances, when there are very serious threats to us in Ukraine today, it will be possible to hide the information that we really need in order to conduct the investigation. So let's say this is a specific example. Ukraine supplies “thorns” to Georgia, Ukraine provides weapons kits that are prohibited from being used against the civilian population. And it was all hidden. And then the warehouses are torn down and the traces of the crime are destroyed, which in this particular case are hidden, so as not to attract the President and his supporters to criminal responsibility today, and his environment. We need to understand today that this problem is her. It is limited by our national interests, and especially when we talk about the flow coming from information or information that is out of control, including by a government body, such as the Supreme Council's legislative body. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on my initiative on the Conciliation Council, the issue of ratifying the agreement with Romania has been removed. Why? And because the faction of communists today denies that we are making a treaty with Romania that violates the territorial integrity of Ukraine and is trying to take away the island of Snakes. And these are the representatives of the so-called National Patriots who, through the committee, miss out on similar decisions and try to destroy the territorial integrity and independence of our state today. That's why I urge everyone today, first of all, to withdraw from the ratification and not vote on the agreements that touch NATO member states and today do not further aggravate the situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u127	Another member of the faction who did not take part in the discussion may make a statement. Is there anyone else you'd like to say? Please, Block of Lithuania, Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u128	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, I would like you to note that we are now voting or we do not want to vote. You know, every ratification agreement has its own meaning. It seems to me that legislators are not some sort of mentality, it's a normal practice -- they have to see what the meaning of this agreement is. And only then do we have to think about whether or not a country is a member of an international organization. In international relations there are multilateral relations, there are bilateral relations. Bilateral relationships exist, exist and exist. I think that's the kind of dust that we're saying is politicized, geo-politicized, or in other words, we should reject. And when it comes to signed agreements that have absolutely beneficial meaning for Ukraine, and we have to look at it from the point of view, and not from any other country, third country, we have to ratify them. I'm just surprised to hear you ask a question like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u129	All of it. What? One faction alone, one faction, had to stretch his hand when I proposed. Colleagues, vote on the draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet and the Government of the Slovak Republic on mutual protection of information with limited access. Consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and acceptance of the relevant act as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, we vote. [[12:55:55]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Next 0062. Anatoly Arkadyovich, please. Please show by factions. Leonidas Kojari, give the floor to Maksutti.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have just overturned the ratification of the standard, in principle, agreement necessary for the operation of the special forces. It's from NATO. This is me personally addressing our communists and I want to say that NATO and I have an agreement on the exchange of classified information on a multilateral basis. This is a deal that will allow the security forces, first of all, to have information about illegal trafficking of illegal substances, about the movement of the mafia and so on. And you know, when there's no ratification, it's always a scandalous story. Why do we spoil our relationship with our neighbor Slovakia? I'd like to propose a vote, and there's nothing in this deal that's scary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u131	There was no replica, Peter Mikolaiovich, no last name, no need. Colleagues! Look at the situation: we can go back to the vote, I'll explain why. This is not an agreement of the BAF – it was made by Julius Volodymyrý Timoshenko! Look at this: it was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm asking about the return to voting under Law 0080. [[12:57:52]] For 247 I am now voting on the adoption of this bill as a basis and as a whole. Vote. After the vote. [[12:58:12]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. 0062. Please, Peter Simonica with a motive. It wasn't. I don't want to fight right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u132	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I'd like each of us to understand what this is all about. If it's about drugs or weapons, it's Interpol and let's say, investigate facts, exchange information. And we're having a conversation about protecting national interests. First of all, from the fact that you and I knew that rings had been delivered to Georgia. We didn't know that. When we put it this way, in Iran or Iraq, there was information that, as if these weapons were moving there, there was so much violence here that there was so little space that they couldn't find. And when, in fact, the rings were provided today and the sons of Russian mothers were killed, you do not want to answer. Then let us understand what is happening in our country. When the battlements provided for the same system of “City” and destroyed the same, so to speak, the sons of Russian mothers, our relatives, who will be responsible? From the warehouses were smuggled out illegally, and then at 61st warehouse in Losovia they brought in a task force to bring out all those who protected and destroyed this warehouse. That's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u133	Maksuta Anatoly Arkadyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u134	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, the draft law that is before you is designed to implement the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea on trade and economic cooperation. This agreement was signed on December 15, 2005, in Kiev. Signed by the Deputy Minister of Economics of the Coast and from the Guinean side as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. In accordance with article 9 of the International Contracts Act, the treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by adopting a law on ratification. The adoption of the Act is a necessary prerequisite for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea on trade and economic cooperation. The adoption of the law will contribute to the development of bilateral economic relations, the revitalization of the business circles of both countries through the exchange of visits by delegations and businessmen, the organisation of the fair, the holding of exhibitions aimed at strengthening economic, industrial and technical cooperation, the opening of representations by foreign trade organisations, companies, firms, banks and other commercial institutions in the territories of both States. Ratification of this law does not require additional expenses. He's working, please support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u135	Taras Vjačeslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, to what Mr. Anatoly Maksutt has just said, I can only add by myself, a bill on a committee of foreign profile has been considered, so it has been considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budgets and Economic Policy. All the committees have expressed their support for it, there are no legal warnings, the law is a standard form for these bills, the treaty is standard form for such agreements and is signed by Ukraine in all cases where we have at least some trade relationship with a country or another. Equatorial Guinea is far from us, but we also have some trade and economic interests, we take some raw material from there, we start making some small deliveries from Ukraine, and the contract provides for normal discharges in ports, so that there are no several monthly delays, etc. Therefore, the High Council Committee on Foreign Affairs asks to support the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u137	Colleagues, there's an offer without discussion, accepted? Please vote in favour of the adoption of Bill 0063 on granting approval for the ratification of the Agreement through the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and Equatorial Guinea. Please vote. [[13:02:40]] For 388 Decision taken. 0063. Anatoly Arkadyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u138	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The draft law that you have submitted for your consideration is designed to carry out the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria. In accordance with the Law on International State Contracts, a treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council through the adoption of the law. According to the terms of the agreement, the contracting parties provide one another with the most favourable treatment for customs and other tariffs comparable to customs, in relation to the total volume of goods exchanged, with the exception of special advantages granted under regional agreements, or those arising from obligations in relation to neighbouring countries. Parties will encourage and promote trade between economic operators in the two countries by establishing contacts between business circles and other activities. The adoption of the law will allow for favourable conditions for bilateral trade, investment and technical cooperation through the creation of joint ventures, the establishment of contacts between the two countries' business circles. The implementation of the agreements will contribute to the economic development of countries and improve the standard of living of citizens of both countries. The adoption of this law will not require additional expenditure from the budget. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u139	Taras Vejacheslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! We now have another ratification law to support the international agreement of Ukraine. With regard to this law, the Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously opted for support. This bill, among other things, has a serious economic significance for us. Algiers, as in North Africa in general, are growing in trade and economic relations. The benefits of this, of accepting this agreement and ratifying it, have just been cited as the deputy minister of the economy. We fully support this because in this case this agreement will solve a lot of problems that need to be solved in order to get our companies to work properly in Africa, North Africa, and the Arabs, so that we can carry out our economic, interstate relations. Similarly, the Committees of the Budget and Economic Policy have been considered, and so has the support. There's a positive conclusion from the Chief Science Administration. The Committee on Foreign Affairs as a profiler asks to support the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u141	Thank you. Is there no objection to the vote? I've only got one question. Do you know when this deal, colleagues, was signed? In 1993! It's a fresh deal. It's only been 15 years and we're putting it on ratification. Unique things. Vote, colleagues, for adopting 0063 as a whole. Peter Mikolaiovich, I don't know what the minister is doing, I'm not Prime Minister, don't ask me. These are the Mine Economics. [[13:06:08]] For 368 0064. Anatoly Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u142	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs! This is another law relating to the Agreement with the Republic of Equatorial Guinea on the promotion and mutual protection of investment. This agreement was signed in 2005 by the Deputy Minister of Economy and, accordingly, by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. The adoption of the Act will contribute to the development of forward-looking international investment co-operation, the involvement of foreign investment and the technology for the activation of external trade, the reduction of non-commercial risks arising from investment activities, as well as the establishment on the international arena and in bilateral relations of positive views on Ukraine as a State with a stable international contractual basis for the protection of foreign investment. The adoption of the law will allow direct implementation of the position-of-agreement in bilateral Ukrainian-Guinean relations, implement them in national legislation to create a favourable investment climate, and allow foreign investors to use international investment protection mechanisms that will reduce non-commercial differences, increase the volume of foreign investment, make a significant contribution to the development of both countries' economies. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u143	Taras Vjačeslavovich, please. Anatoly Arkadyovich, don't run away, you stay here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, once again, in full support of all that is said in the essence of the agreement, I will add one of my own. The same arrangement was made, completely in line with the standards and standards of such agreements. In this case, there is an interest in us. Our investment in consumption is beginning to come to Africa, and this is also linked to the development of beneficial fossils on the continent. As I think it's a completely positive process. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered this ratification law and the agreement at its meeting. It was unanimously recommended that we support it. There are also positive conclusions from the scientific and expert management and support from the Committee on Economic Policy and the Committee on Budgets. Please support the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u145	Colleagues, I'm voting on the adoption of Law 0064 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:09:00]] For-360 Decision taken. 0065, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u146	Mr. Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies, draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments has been developed with a view to carrying out the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement, which was signed in January 2006 by the Ukrainian Minister of Economy of Ukraine. The adoption of the Act will contribute to the development of a forward-looking approach to international cooperation, both between two countries and across international cooperation; it will enable foreign investors to directly implement the position of the Agreement in bilateral relations and implement it in national legislation to create a favourable investment climate; it will also allow foreign investors to use the mechanisms envisaged by international law to attract investment in Ukraine's economy. I would like to point out that this Agreement has already been ratified by the San Marino Parliament. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u147	Please, Taras Vjačeslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as a professional, considered the agreement. It was a subject of our focus, because at first there were doubts that we might be investing in with San Marino, it turned out to be, confirmed, it really is. Since San Marino is not an offshore territory, there are no financial concerns about it, these investments are completely normal, they are not reinvestments and so on. The economy is developing there today, even though it is a minimal small country. And so our request is to support the ratification of this agreement. So the main scientific expertise and the two relevant committees that I'm always talking about have been very positive. I would like to add that San Marino is the country where the oldest Republic of Europe has been operating today – since the fourth century according to tradition. Parliament also exists there, which I think is 70 people. I even had to communicate with their deputies. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u149	Thank you. Colleagues, I am signing you under every word of Taras Viacheslavovich, because I signed this agreement as the Minister of Economics. So please, dear friends, vote, please, 0065 as a whole. [[13:12:00]] For 371 Thank you, comrades. ‘For’ – 371. The order of the day is exhausted. Now – the performances, “Victory”. Please vote. I'm saying. Let's do this. Alexander Volodymyrovich, please hold a meeting, please. All right, comrades, Alexander Volodymyr will continue to hold meetings. “Different”.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u150	We're going to start the "Victane". Please welcome to the words of Vladimir Dmitrovich Lemze.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u151	Please pass Port's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u152	National MP Lemza Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please. A boy, please, a deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u153	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear Chairman! The faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” is now requesting the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, requiring the official publication and publication of the laws on which the veto of the President of Ukraine has been overtaken. The specified draft decree is now registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote in favour of including it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u154	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I want this project, if it's registered, to be seen by the Ukrainian National Deputies. And when it's given out, then we'll be determined to include it in the agenda. Please, “Miss. ” People’s Deputies of Paris.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainians! For a long time, “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense” has raised the active question that we should be here in Parliament to remove parliamentary integrity. Not long ago, the elections were held. And this requirement was not only in the programme “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense”. The requirement was in the programs of most of the political forces that went to Parliament and today are here in that room. In particular, we remind ourselves that the issue of the removal of parliamentary integrity was one of the key issues of the coalition agreement between the “Julia Timoshenko Block” and “Our Ukraine”. When we promised the voters and fulfilled our promise, we voted in favour of the bill and sent it to the Constitutional Court in 226 votes. Many doubted how quickly the answer would be answered. But for today we have our hands untied. The Constitutional Court has given us an answer that allows us to vote, not once, but today, 300 votes and eliminate parliamentary integrity. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine concluded that the bill met the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine is proposed as follows: “People’s deputies shall not be held legally responsible for the results of voting or expressing themselves in Parliament and its bodies, except for those responsible for the offence or slander.” Thus, the Ukrainian Constitution proposes to remove the rule that Ukrainian national deputies cannot, without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, be brought to criminal responsibility, detained or arrested. We call on colleagues in the hall to make full use of these requirements and that possibility today. We would like to point out to those political forces that are today in favour of forming a democratic coalition in the form of “Our Ukraine”, “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko” and “The Block of Lithuania”, not by word, but by deed to demonstrate this trend. Unfortunately, what is being demonstrated in the hall is evidenced by a completely different coalition – prokremljelski between the Party of the Regions and "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko". We urge our yesterday's and perhaps tomorrow's partners from the Timoshenko Yulia Block to live up to the promises we made to the voters. We call on the Block of Lithuania to join in meeting those requirements so that at the next plenary session they can jointly put this issue into the agenda and vote it out. Then we will demonstrate that we serve people and serve the interests of people in parliament, not come here to protect our business or any other interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u156	Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u157	Dear friends, literally an hour ago, we've had quite an event in the Republic. All representatives of municipal farms and representatives of local self - government were gathered. They've been looking at housing problems, housing-communal reform problems, and now it's very clear and clear that, unfortunately, there's very little attention to this problem right now. If you look at the housing-communal reform projects submitted by the Ministry of Communion, you might say that this document is not working enough. I want to speak now as a representative of the Housing Owners' Association, as the head of the Housing Owners' Association, and I want to stop, actually, on the subject of USBB and housing cooperatives. You know, seven years ago, the Desert Tenko began to develop the Housing Codex. He began to look at it, and literally a few days ago, a draft of the Housing Codex was considered on the committee. I am very pleased that there is mutual understanding and we now have a unique situation in the Supreme Council when this document can be accepted. But I think the main reason for the failures of all the LHC reform programmes to stop this crisis is that the organizers did not take an interest in their implementation of ordinary people, did not want to convince them that these reforms could actually improve their living conditions and would be useful to them. Now very much, the Housing Owners' Association represents all USBB and all Ukrainian housing cooperatives, and our main work this year is to prepare proposals for changes to the USBB law, which is likely to be an integral part of the new Housing Code. I'm glad that our proposals have entered into his projects, particularly with regard to supporting the USB, the transition from the concept of building maintenance to the concept of building management. But as I was speaking at the committee meeting, I insisted on making additions to the project, which was a generalization of proposals from district organizations. These are priorities for land transfer, these are equal opportunities for budget allocations for tariff differentials, and for USBBs, and for buildings that serve utilities. It's the creation of priorities so that it's possible to create USB by voting the three people who live in these houses. This is, by the way, a survey of all the leading countries, Germany and Denmark and Poland. Define the concept of general use, because why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u158	Herman Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! I listened with great consideration to the statement by the representative of “Our Ukraine”, who, as soon as Ukraine faced the threat of a new presidential election, mentioned his pre-election promises from previous elections. There was an orange coalition and it was possible to vote on the entire law on the abolition of parliamentary immunity and today to go to elections with promises made, but they waited for the new elections to go back to the people, and again tricking people with the promise of canceling parliamentary intricacy. I propose not to collect cards now, as you have collected, but let us now put to the vote the Law on the Cancellation of Deputies of Intactness, and we will help you, even though we and BUTT, as you say about the Kremlin majority, but we hold our word to Ukraine, we will now help and let us vote. And you screamed here and you went out to the rostrum, and then you quickly picked up the cards, just in case people didn't vote or ask for a vote. And that involves all of your hypocrisy, and all of your lies in relation to your promises and to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u160	National Deputy Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Actually, I was going to draw your attention to the important social aspect of our policy, but in the development of my colleague Anna Herman's thinking, I would like to refer to the initiators of the historic appeal to undo the inviolability. Write it down somewhere, because you are not working on yourself, you are walking, you are walking, you are giving interviews, you are putting labels on us, you are writing down for yourself while you are still able to communicate with intelligent people. Thus, the Constitutional Court’s decision of 26.02.2003 clearly defined article 80 of the Constitution and parliamentary integrity, such as. I quote : “as an element of the status of the Ukrainian national deputy, as a constitutional guarantee of the uninterrupted and effective exercise of its powers by the Ukrainian national deputy.” [[I'm not in a hurry. I'm not in a hurry.]] Listen, thank God that we today have the Head of State, the President, the guarantor of rights and freedoms, is a man of deep conviction, sincere and true democracy. It is good that this man is unscrupulous and inscrutable, above all respects the laws and the Constitution, strengthens the Constitutional Court, often consults the people, every day comes into the session hall and has a conversation with us here, we can ask him a question, he will explain to us if we do not understand anything. And if it's today, and if, God forbid, tomorrow this post of Head of State with such powers will be funded by special-purpose technologists from abroad. And then what happens to all of us? And how can we defend the constitutional rights of our citizens by being under constant press? You go to the D.A.'s office, and you're gonna lose your business tomorrow and the third and the tenth. You, Your Honor, scream in vain. I understand that you're afraid that you're all pale and green. You get used to working because it's like a duck: yesterday we're in opposition, now you're in opposition. There's no problem. And I want to pay attention to the country's distinguished national MPs, not the political psychopaths, but the normal mentally healthy people: there is a stagnant pension reform in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, pension reform is not working. We have people complaining again that the pension does not depend on the internship, the pension does not depend on the participation in the labour market. The solidarity pension system is halting for today. We all need to settle down in this session room because the state loses its motivation for people's participation. For a young person there is no, there is no prospect of effective, beautiful work, because it is not clear what will happen next. Of the 21 million working people, 11 million are paid in full. We've got work to do! Don't worry about us! Take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u162	Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u163	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, NH-NS faction. I will read out the statement made by the National Movement of Ukraine in connection with the anticonstitutional actions of the Supreme Council of Autonomous Crimea. On September 17, this year, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea adopted by a majority the decision it addressed to the Ukrainian Parliament to recognize the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. This decision clearly shows the beginning of the Kremlin’s implementation in Ukraine of the scenario of the political upheaval and the weakening of the power vertical in Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Autonomy has actually identified itself as a realizer of plans and scenarios developed by Kremlin technology. The actions of the ARC Supreme Council are seen as an open sabotage of the position of President Yushchenk of Ukraine and of the Ukrainian authorities on the Georgian-Russian conflict. Moreover, such actions are an open and gross violation of articles 137 and 138 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which define an exclusive list of the powers of the Supreme Council of the ARC. The prioritization of foreign policy and the formation of Ukraine's position on foreign policy issues belongs to the President of Ukraine and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not to local self-government. Ukraine's national movement calls attention to the inadmissibility of making local self-government decisions that go beyond its competence is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and run counter to the official position of the central authorities of the State, and then weaken the government's leadership in Ukraine and allow for speculation on the territorial integrity and national security of Ukraine. We believe that such provocations should be the subject of serious investigation by law enforcement agencies. In the Ukrainian State, it is necessary to put an end to the existence of a fifth column whose activity is aimed at weakening Ukraine’s state independence. Ukraine's national movement has not only become the leader of the national democratic forces, which have led to the restoration of Ukraine's national independence, but has consistently advocated and advocated Ukraine's national interests, the construction of a constituency, an independent, Ukrainian Ukraine. It was the National Movement of Ukraine that opposed the anti - state attempts at Zakarpatta to raise political Russia. We won't let our nation be destroyed. Ukraine is above all else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u164	National MP Polo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, on September 16, 2008, at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the bloc's parliamentary faction group, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich Kirilenko, unjustifiably accused the government of Ukraine, the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, that the educational reforms introduced by our Ukrainian Minister Vakarcuk had been opposed. As head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, Mr. Kirilenko’s accusations are false, politicized, and premeditated. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted three legal acts regulating relations in the fields of education and science. Sixteen sessions were held by the Scientific and Educational Committee to discuss 86 issues, 27 bills for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In carrying out its control functions, the committee provided a range of control issues related to education. The committee has been successful in working with the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, other public authorities, executive and public organizations, supporting all innovative approaches, modernizing the country's education system. I find it hard to understand what the speaker meant when he spoke about the educational reforms being carried out by the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. When it comes to the introduction in 2008 of a comprehensive external independent evaluation of teachers. The graduates of the general educational institutions and their admission to higher education institutions with the results of testing have to be stressed, the committee held meetings three times in February, April and May months, at which recommendations were adopted to improve the organization's process and to conduct independent evaluation. Unfortunately, recommendations and proposals made by the Committee of the Ministry of Education and Science were only partially taken into account. In view of the fact that effective educational legislation provides for the definition of state policy in the area of education of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee recommended that the Ministry promptly prepare a package of amendments and additions to the existing legislation to establish the status of external independent evaluation. On April 23rd, this year, a special meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was held on the organization and conduct of an external independent evaluation of the quality of education in 2008. In fact, the committee’s recommendations and proposals were supported. Regrettably, a working group was set up by the Prime Minister under the chairmanship of the Deputy Prime Minister, Vasyunika, who did not make the necessary changes to the Supreme Council's existing legislation. And finally. Those who try to earn political capital in the politicalization of the educational and scientific sphere have to remind themselves that Ukrainian educational legislation foresees the independence of education from political parties, public and religious organizations. Therefore, I urge the Ukrainian National Deputies to refrain from engaging in the education system.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u166	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u167	Education and science must be beyond politics. Only in close cooperation with all branches of government can we count on success in modernizing education and science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u168	Player Leonid Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u169	Unfortunately, Alexander Vladimirovic broke the rules and gave the colleague the Polohalov queue. But I'm not in the claim. And I'm in the claim that it was after the cynical rhosphobe that one of the ideologies of the fifth pro-American, pronatov colony was speaking, and I had to speak and answer him. First. I would like to remind everyone that Crimean autonomy took place by decision of the people on 20 January 1991. Second, to recall that Kiev, which had never dealt with its own State, could never have done anything post-Soviet at all times. And the seven-year political war between autonomy and Kiev ended with what was self-sustaining, especially the power not to take the path of Transnistria, Abkhazia and South Ossetia. And thanks to the Crimeans, you must thank them today and kiss them in all places that the bloodshed has not yet taken place and Ukraine is not involved in the internal struggle. Second. Second, come on, not with you, well, hands to look for someone. Second. About what everyone says. It should be a good idea to examine how Yushchenko and his Komarilia violate the basic constitutional rights of Crimea. And by the way, if anyone were to pay attention to this, including what anti-Crime campaign is now being launched in all the Ukrainian media, in the official Secretariat of the President, which is essentially following the fact that there is no other way out, in this case South Ossetia and Abkhazia will become independent in order to protect itself from the destruction of their entire aggressor, led by the Americans, in this case by Saakashvili, therefore, the violation of the constitutional rights of Crimea, and, by the way, read you, the Fifth Column of the United States. Crimea, and the Crimea Constitution were adopted in a mutual manner and went to purgatory in the Constitutional Court, and recognized as an appropriate legal field, has the right to participate in the development of an external political, external economic, internal political and external direction of the State of Ukraine, if Crimea is concerned. Are you going to tell me whether the involvement of Ukraine in NATO concerns or not? What are you doing?Oh, my God! You want to do this with blondes, blindness and ignorance, if you want, and the most basic homage, both political and ethnic and legal, you want to bring the situation down not in Crimea, but here in Ukraine. Crimea will never make its way to NATO.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u170	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u171	The policy pursued by Yushchenko, add, add Alexander. And listen well, because the Crimea problem is today the problem of Ukraine's territorial integrity tomorrow. Thus, both the parliamentarians and the Cabinet of Ministers and Yushchenko must stand up for legal positions in order to fulfil all legal obligations before the Crimea. There's no other way and there's no other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u172	The people's representative of the Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u173	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! On more than one occasion, you have heard from the People's Deputies of the Yulia Tymoshenko and the Party of Regions that the Supreme Council has finally worked through the Union of the Yulia Tymoshenko, the Party of Regions and Communists productively. The bulwarks even substantiate the collapse of the de facto democratic coalition. In fact, the progeny of the BUT, the Party of Regions and Communists is quite the opposite. Every day the Supreme Council adopts anticonstitutional laws that weaken Ukrainian statehood at the institutional level. This activity is particularly damaging to Ukraine’s security and foreign policy. You remember the draft amendments to the Act on the Cabinet of Ministers where, in fact, the National Security and Defence Council was destroyed as a constitutional institution guaranteeing national security. Where the Cabinet of Ministers is, in fact, should not take these decisions into account. The same can be said of the changes to the Ukrainian Security Service Act, where the National Security Instrument is being destroyed by the Institute of the Acting Head of the Board. Today we saw the same vote on the referendum bill. These decisions are generally taken in violation of the Rules, contrary to the law in force. Today, they want to make the same decision that Mr. Portnov spoke about in this room. No one has seen these bills, no committee conclusions, no expert departments' conclusions, and the Supreme Council has these destructive bills, and they are voted manically literally without any predicting the consequences of the action. But there is another fruit of this union. The whole crime scene was activated today in Ukraine. This is particularly evident in the area of environmental rights for citizens. Let me give you just one example. For several years, the society that lives around the stadium of Kiev’s National University of Technology and Design has been fighting the destruction of this stadium, fighting to get people involved in physical culture and sports. So the democratic coalition was destroyed, as soon as the university’s rectorate began to engage criminal elements, to engage what law enforcement services are unknown in order to beat citizens in their defence of their national interests. And that's a lot to say. And what the government is giving us today is a budget where the Ukrainian Armed Forces are not funded at the right level, is the same position as the majority, which has actually been affected by the institutional weakening of the Ukrainian state. That is why the Ukrainian People’s Party was in charge today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u174	Complete, please, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u175	That's why the Ukrainian People's Party has been conducting care of the Cabinet of Ministers today, the Supreme Council, and our demands are very clear: to increase funding in the National Budget of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to 2 percent of GDP. Let's not play these games. Anyone who doesn't feed his army will feed a foreign army. Stop it, my nobles.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u176	Scubenko Volodymyr Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u177	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I want to lower the degree of resistance in this Supreme Council a little bit, and I want to draw your attention to the problem that today poses a threat to national security. This is about regional submerging of lands and populated areas of Ukraine. However that may sound, to this day, with all the political opposition we have, we must not forget what happened to us today in Zakarpateta, and what we see today in Dnieper's mouth. The threatening nature of this phenomenon and its proximity to the national threat are evidenced by the fact that in 82 years the area of submerged land was one million hectares, and in 2005 it was more than two million hectares. At the same time, the number of industrial and urban complexes with natural and technological submerging has increased from 254 to 600, and the area of submergment has doubled. The long - standing observations conducted by the public services indicate that this phenomenon has become permanent and systemic in Ukraine. Particularly dangerous were the submerged processes in the South-Dinprov region, namely: Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Zaporzik, Mikolayivsk, Odessa, Poltavsk, Hersonsk. These areas account for 87 percent of all submerged decomposed lands. A particular concern is the situation in the Herson region: the sinking has become an anomaly and can become irreversible, with disastrous consequences for the environment not only in the Herson region but also in neighbouring regions. Intensive submerged areas lead to loss of agricultural land due to salinization and erosion. Surface and groundwater pollution is rapidly increasing. Taking into account the large number of unfit pesticides found in the Hersonian region of the sky, water pollution has become catastrophic. As a result, the quality of drinking water deteriorates, leading to an increase in disease levels for such dangerous infectious diseases as hepatitis, tuberculosis. The deterioration of natural resources is still a very dangerous consequence of submergment. The Hersonian region is unique in terms of the number and quality of natural conservation areas. The pace of submerging the area not only makes it impossible to preserve and develop the protected areas, but also threatens the existence of unique natural complexes such as Ascania-Nova, Arbatska Arrow, Black Sea Biosphere Reserve, Oleshkovski Sands. And others. Although this issue has been repeatedly addressed in the Supreme Council, a decision has been made, but a visa is now there. All of the measures provided for in the recommendations have not been implemented. From year to year, governments have not directed funding to this program, even though we have adopted it by 2030. Of the three billion dollars offered for the program over the course of five years, no change was made.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u178	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u179	Not so good, and in the 2009 budget, the same mistake, the same situation. I think that little attention has been paid to this by both the Government concerned and, most importantly, by the Herson Regional Administration, which is doing absolutely nothing in this direction, has not sent a single request or advocates its situation in its field. Please consider this as my request to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u180	National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u181	Stanislav Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”. My speech is dedicated to Ukrainian Cossacks. I would like to welcome all the Cossack organizations of Ukraine, as well as those Ukrainians who have a real Cossack spirit in their hearts, with the adoption on September 17 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the National Programme for the Development of Ukrainian Cossacks. Several decrees were needed by the President of Ukraine to the previous government and several reminders by today’s government about the need for such a state programme. Ukraine’s independence has contributed to the development of the Cossack movement, supported by descendants of Cossacks, individual citizens who consider themselves Cossacks, and Cossack organizations that advocate a national Cossack idea, protect the acquisition of the Ukrainian people, and participate in the consolidation of our society. The Cossack organizations of Ukraine, which have more than 250,000 Cossacks in their registers, are now united in their desire to revive the historical, patriotic, economic, cultural, spiritual, and moral traditions of Ukrainian Cossacks, which are the foundation of the Cossack movement in Ukraine. Finally, the State decided to use the Cossack potential and combine the efforts of executives, local governments, scientific institutions, and Cossacks, which would in turn enable Cossacks to achieve the common goal of rebuilding and developing Ukrainian Cossacks, creating conditions in society to ensure their overall development. The only obstacle remains the absence of a legislatively regulated issue regarding the characteristics of the creation and activities of Cossacks. Today, in Ukraine, countless distinguished Cossack organizations, individual enthusiasts, historians, scientific groups that have not been able to overcome the negative treatment of Cossacks, which has been cultivated for decades by the regime of the former Soviet Union. It is a norm when different political powers involve representatives of Cossack organizations in political processes to achieve their corporate goal. In the very Cossack environment, organizations are born with signs of military formations that arbitraryly interpret Cossack traditions, create their own ideology, and form a system of education for young people. It is the bill that the President of Ukraine has passed that regulates these issues and clearly identifies the role and place of Ukrainian Cossacks. It's the consolidation of society, the restoration of the historical and cultural traditions of the Ukrainian people, the preservation of cultural heritage, the involvement in the protection of public order, and, above all, the participation in the physical and sports, military and patriotic and spiritual education of children and young people. So the state programme is on the turn of the Law on Cossacks in Ukraine. Thank you to the Ukrainian Cossacks!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u182	Thank you. Please, Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I'm sorry. Yes, they've passed on the word. It's written here. Please, Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u183	Mrs. Grigorovitch, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u184	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected journalists, and national MPs! I would like to emphasise that, starting on September 2, the de facto vote of 330 votes, 340 votes and more, the loop between the Party of the Regions, the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Communists, already baptized by the “Cremal Coalition”, is working. And this vote every day methodically and consistently destroys the gains of the Ukrainian State in 17 years. If you do not believe, listen to the news at night and hear what has been done today. By the way, I would like to emphasize to the distinguished journalists and citizens of Ukraine that today there is no great presence of deputies from these three factions on the “Variable” and Mr Chechetov in the Hall. Let's see what happens next. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I have heard endlessly from today's Prime Minister, for whom, by the way, I have repeatedly voted, the same thing as voters, give me votes, I want to do something. When I saw after the last election that the party of regions and the Timoshenko Yuli Block had more than 300 votes together, I knew they would do it when, just when. September 2nd. What do they want to do? And the same parliamentary republic that was written in the writings of Kremlin's technologist Dougine. And if you don't believe me, please take it and read it. This is the easiest way to blur out Ukrainian sovereignty. What will happen next? And then we will have competition, and who better to bow before a white stone in Ukraine? In women’s knicksen or in men’s knee - bowing worship, that is to say, Lukashenko or Lukashenko. Dear friends, I would like to say a few words about Georgian circumstances. I assure you that according to the strategic cooperation agreement, if God forbid Georgian tanks will be within 30 kilometers of Moscow, our Ukrainian politicians will be there because the Russian Federation has Calmikiya, Tatarstan, and Dagestan. And Ukraine, which has not recognized the independence of Kosovo and South Ossetia, will also hold the same line. Now, a few words about the Crimean situation. Questions were raised against two ministers, Vakarchuk and Knyazevitch, who said too much Ukrainian, including Crimea. Dear friends, 65 percent of Ukrainian citizens consider Ukrainian to be their native language. More than 70 percent of the media are Russian - speaking. So, dear friends, against the backdrop of these hot speeches about the problems in Crimea, I'd like to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u185	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u186	There is no Ukrainian language in Crimea in 17 years, no cat in a dark room that is not there. Maybe someone wants to call some more harsh situation in Crimea, so every day I say nota bene! - don't look for any circumstances in Crimea, and don't even invent them because they're not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u187	Vladimir Caplienko, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! Dear TV setters, radio audiences, national MPs! I'd like to raise three short questions that I'd like to draw your attention to. The first question is the statement made by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on September 17th of this year that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be consulted on the recognition of the independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, which are part of independent Georgia. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, of course, the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, to whom I personally refer with great respect, has at this time led the situation in the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the possibility of applying the same right that Kosovo has received in its own time as South Ossetia and Abkhazia had to separate the Supreme Council of the ARC from the State itself. I ask you, National MPs, to point out that if this address is, in fact, brought to the Parliamentary Hall, there is no way to support such an appeal and to vote exclusively for Georgia's independence as such. That's the first question. The second question I'd like to raise is the question of our internal problems with vaccination and vaccination of children in our country. I'm sorry, I'm a young father and I've had this situation where a child born within three days according to an active vaccination map didn't receive an injection called BCG. It has been found that this BCG is an addiction to antituberculosis, which is not available in our country at all. After my parliamentary appeals directly to the Ministry of Health, the Chief Sanitary Doctor and the Ukrvakcin company found that the total budget of 260 million was used and there was no vaccination. Excuse me, where's the perk? Dear colleagues, I demand that this issue be raised, and if necessary, we have created an appropriate commission or investigator, or a special committee, to find out how and why there is no child immunization institution in our country? If this is true of adults, it is their problem. And children who may have a lifelong illness do not receive that kind of service at this time. Yes, I personally decided this question, thanks to the help of my colleagues. Yet, this may not be the case in the country. And the last. Dear colleagues, today we have made three decrees, three presidential petitions on the promise of laws on temporary investigation committees, on the organization of the work and order of the Supreme Council, and on the disciplinary statute of the State Service. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that they're all written under a basket. If you discover them, it turns out that somehow, a little bit strange, but all three of the bills were mixed up in their license plate.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u189	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u190	Please tell me, who will answer for this error? I understand that Arsenius Yatzenuk resigned, he can't answer for it, but there are these people in the Supreme Council's apparatus who did. I ask you to consider this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u191	Thank you. Zosula's national deputy passed the word to Yuri Prokopchuku, "The Yulia Timoshenko Block". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u192	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Ravenshkina. Honorable colleagues, respected compatriots, criminals, and all Ukrainians! You know, I've now decided to come to this rostrum for the reasons that, unfortunately, in the hall, after, in fact, constructive work has begun to reopen the charges that are now bordering on a certain kind of inflammation. I don't know who wants to ask the question today and rekindle that Bixford cord, which unfortunately got caught up in long-suffering Georgia. Believe me, we're not talking about the American minority today, about the Kremlin majority. I think that for the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" it is absolutely about the Ukrainian position and it is very unnecessary for the distinguished individual colleagues to speculate on these ideas. Especially when it comes to individual deputies here claimed to finance the army, that the government does not finance it. So you look at the draft budget and see how far it's going to go. But with all the costs of a military parade, 70 million were burned within an hour and a half. And for example, only the oncodyspanser of Equinox, which we're talking about repeatedly, and we're saying, by the way, where the Chernobyl area and the black people are treated, is 67 million. It would be better if we had one oncodspencer, both for the people and for the children, first and foremost. I would like to encourage all of us to stop speculating again on political issues, to engage in constructive work, to have the 2009 budget ahead, to have many unresolved issues and to be involved in politics, such a policy, "fearful" those who wanted to feel that he was in the circus today, please. I understand that there are MPs here, honourable ones, five phone calls, and if you cannot live among yourselves and this part of the hall remembers all the malice from 1991 to this and vice versa, then excuse me, let those who have come to work here work. And I think that the new so-called representatives of this Parliament will do anything to either consolidate this Parliament, or at least work effectively for one, our exclusively Ukrainian Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u193	Ivan Popescu, Party of Regions. Prepare Christmas to be prepared for Oliynik BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u194	Thank you, Popescu faction “Parties of the Regions”, the Chernobyl region. The distinguished colleagues, not so long ago Minister of Education and Science John Vakarczuk said that the right to learn the language of your family, the language of your people, is sacred. But an adult who enters social life must also speak the national language. Who might disagree? But actually, double standards. Earlier in the letters of the Ministry to district authorities, from district structures to circuits, and then to schools, there were only recommendations for the transition of schools with teaching languages of national minorities to basic subjects in Ukrainian. But from now on, the Education Minister's orders No. 461 of May 26 and No. 496 of May 03.06 are in place, according to which most of the subjects in schools with national languages will be translated into Ukrainian. In the first phase, there will be fifty percent in one language, fifty percent in another language, but no mechanism has been developed. There are no relevant manuals and related developments, no funds for this. And, above all, this is a violation of article 22 of the Constitution, which prevents the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms from being narrowed by the adoption of new laws or amendments to existing laws. In article 10, paragraph 10, and paragraph 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on General Education, articles 25; paragraph 27 of the Ukrainian Law on Languages, and more importantly, they ruin the curriculum for 2008-2009. This policy in the field of education is contrary to European values and in fact foresees measures for the transition of instruction in schools of national minorities of basic Ukrainian disciplines, contrary to Ukrainian legislation, provisions ratified by Ukraine of the European Charter of Regional and Language Minorities, and the framework of the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities. We believe that the intentions of gradually replacing basic disciplines in Romanian, Hungarian, Russian, Polish - speaking languages have no legal or logical basis. Therefore, we strongly protest against the beginning of the process of assimilation. and the Minister of Education of Vakarczuk to think, perhaps he should do as his son, who left parliament honestly, should leave the post of minister honestly, because assimilationists and anti-Europeans do not belong in the Ukrainian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u195	People's Chamberlain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u196	Respectable citizens! Dear TV setters, radio audiences, respected colleagues! From this rostrum, it is generally necessary to present draft legislation in a professional field, but each national deputy has a legal obligation to work in the district, not just to talk about it in the hall. And I think that the people who are doing this today are going to tell them what to say, both on Fridays and Wednesdays, when it comes from the factions and the national MPs. So, while I was in the country, it happened that as a resident and a person born in a city in an industrial, work-based district, which is a district mostly made up of rural areas, it's 38 constituencies and it's the Dnipropetrov region, the Sinielnikov region, Vasilkovsky, Pokrovski and the Interjeu region. Last week, I met with people living in this district, mostly farmers. And I have an assignment from them to sound the problems that are relevant to these people today, and although I do not refer to myself as a category of agrarians that often come out of this rostrum, but by doing the duty to those people and the promise given to them, I sound these problems. The first problem this year is, unfortunately, almost traditional, but this year it sounds like a big crop -- big problems. We are all happy that we have a great harvest this year, but for many farmers today, this huge crop can be caused by concrete losses because of the same situation that this great crop needs to be produced and saved at real market prices, and the purchase prices for agriculture can be much lower than in the last year, which leads to the fact that the profitability of agricultural production has become marginal, that is to say, these enterprises are on the verge of bankruptcy and loss. I've analyzed the situation of why it happened, and I've come to the conclusion that this comes out that it's hard to blame a particular government because I've calculated that this tradition is many years old when we set quotas and licences for the export of grain. Maybe that's a good thing, and it's covered up with the intention of keeping prices in the internal market for agricultural products. Although I don't see that these prices are really low in the internal market. But this actually led to the formation of a specific mafia, you could call it the cartel that installs, owns these quotas, and can set prices at a certain level. I made a simple legislative proposal. Establish criminal responsibility for fixing prices for agriculture, for agricultural production, in order to direct the efforts of the Prosecutor’s Office, the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to, on, these cartels, which set up a conspiracy to give the State the responsibility to verify who is setting these prices, why these prices are kept at such a low level and to be able to bring responsibility. The second part of the responsibility relates to misuse of licences and quotas
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u197	Finish up. Upstairs Sergei Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u198	Dear Chief, distinguished voters! I'm happy to say that I support or agree with Lily Grigorovich's words. They probably really knew that sooner or later this coalition was going to fall apart, which we had. I felt it, too. Why? Because from the first day that the election campaign began, the President began to consult with the leaders of the Party of Regions and promised, as soon as the new coalition was formed. But it didn't happen. And it didn't happen because it was the voters who believed the "Julia Timoshenko Block" and he got more votes. So more mandates, between what happened in 2006. But even after the coalition was formed, the work of the President, his Secretariat, did not stop at the turn of the coalition. And all that was happening was in our eyes and in the eyes of our constituents. And we know how our government got dirty. And we knew how the government was not allowed to work. And we knew how the heads of administration weren't allowed into the government, and everything, and all that. But I want to talk about something else today. In recent times, our President has been speaking to people, not in the media, but in the American, English, and other newspapers. And in these newspapers he continues to slander his own government, the government of the democratic coalition for which he so saves. And I have a question today. Which of us, the electorate, once heard from the President of the United States, from the Chancellor of Germany, from other officials of other states to corrupt their parliament or government. This only indicates that our President does not have an elementary political culture. And the rest. In these days Lugansk is celebrating its 70s and the city of Lugansk is celebrating the day of the city. Today, the President is also in Luhansk. And I think Luhanščina will tell the President that enough to tear Ukraine apart into pieces is enough to put one political power in contrast to another. Today, the people are waiting for both Parliament and the government to solve the problems in which the whole nation is interested, every citizen of Ukraine. And what Parliament is doing today is passing laws that all Ukrainian citizens need without any national signs, without any religious signs. And that's why we need to stop today. We need to consolidate our authority and work for the good of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u199	National deputy of Vyezovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u200	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear Ukrainians! Since the declaration of independence of Ukraine, the military base of the foreign state, the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, has been established in the territory of our country. During his stay in our territory, the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation has repeatedly violated the basic agreement that regulates his stay in our territory. Here are just some of the facts that confirm the violation of the conditions of the Black Sea fleet. First. The Black Sea fleet’s willful takeover of the land as well as the watersheds is more than 150 acres [150 ha], and property complexes, including lighthouses located in Ukraine. The other one. The Russian Federation's command, in breach of the basic agreements on the whereabouts of ships, has not abandoned its efforts to upgrade the fighting potential of the Black Sea fleet by replacing obsolete equipment with new equipment. Third. To date, there has been no payment to local budgets for the use of their resources and land. And that's why today we don't hear the calls of supporters of the Autonomy of Crimea to pay them back the funds they should legally receive, and instead we hear other calls for support from the Black Sea fleet, which from the territory of the Ukrainian State, without the permission of the Ukrainian sovereign state, takes responsibility for sending ships into the military zone of the conflict between Russia and Moscow. On August 13, 2008, Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko issued a decree on the order of the crossing of the border of Ukraine by vessels of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. Unfortunately, the decisive steps taken by the President of Ukraine do not find the support of both our former allies, the members of the BUTU faction, and personally the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko. The “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction believes that we need not only to settle all questions about the temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, but also to move to market prices for rent for Ukrainian craft and property. In this regard, we propose that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine negotiate immediately with the Russian Federation to determine the amount of rent paid for the stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and to make it in payments starting on January 1, 2009. Among other things, I would like to stress, unfortunately, and fortunately, that there are no longer those who have voted under certain laws today, and the coalition of the Party of Regions, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko and the Communists should adopt other anti-constitutional laws or force the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to sign anti-constitutional laws that they supposedly vetoed. And that's why I'm convinced that Ukraine and Ukraine will face this pressure from Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u201	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u202	And Ukraine around the world will show its independence and self-determination for self-determination. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u203	Sidekick Ivan Ivanovich. Is there no national deputy of Sidelnik? Next Levcun, please. The Najdion People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u204	Respectable People's Deputies, voters! I reiterate my request to Minister Vakarczuk, President Yushchenko, on behalf of the public of Hersonian. The Chief of Education and Science of the Herson District Administration of Suh, head of the Silinkov Administration, with all the methodical and reckless self-confidence, thinking of impunity for their crimes against children, are doing their best to destroy the Teremok Children's House of the Herson District Council. For two years now, the team has advocated and sought to reorganize the children's home into a training rehabilitation centre for children in need of development adjustment. With special coolness and haste, children continue to be dispersed anywhere without taking into account their psychological, physical characteristics. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the ambitions of the head of education have become greater than those of orphans. The danger of his actions is that children who are to be adopted fall into so-called foster families who are not interested in the physical and mental development of children. These children are often taken for useful purposes — earning money, using children for physical work. It is this children’s home that, thanks to the efforts of the community, does everything in its power to make children feel at home. His hidden intentions on the territory, administrative buildings, logistics base, the Chief of Education and Science of Suh cover the concerns about the future of each child on behalf of the President and for the benefit of the State. A children's home with more than 80 years of experience was the first in post-war years to adopt children who lost their parents as their family. Throughout the years, an entire school has been established to raise orphans. What we see today is not only illegal acts, but also the State policy of President Yushchenko for anti-human criminal acts. In every crime, the public of Hersonianism sees not only wrongfulness but also immorality, which manifests itself, with impunity, in the form of self-government. Chief of Education and Science Suh, Minister of Science Vakarczuk, President Yushchenko must be convicted of anti-national, anti-State actions, especially against our small compatriots. Children have become the subject of trade and speculation, personal interests in our country have long become a priority, double standards have become popular, policies against their people have become public. In all spheres of public life, we have observed fascist methods for the destruction of people. When Georgia treacherously attacked North Ossetia, she used the method of cleaning the villages. Today we see the land being cleared only by our children. In our country, such methods are used to obtain land, building or other facilities. The most terrible thing is that impunity eventually leads to crimes that can be described as anti-discrimination.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u205	Finish up, please. National Deputy Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u206	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I would now like to turn to the government from this high rostrum to prepare again for the autumn-winter period of 2008-2009 by companies in the fuel-energy complex of Ukraine, and about nuclear power plants. [[I've already spoken to you on more than one occasion.]] More than 50 percent of our electricity is produced by the AES. But the real state of these facilities today shows that there are colossal problems. They are due to the increased consumption of electricity by Ukrainian industrial consumers, the limited scarcity of gas resources, oil and coal in Ukraine’s electricity balance, the unbalanced use of AES, the tendency to increase the price parameters for nuclear fuel by the Russian Federation. And all of this causes serious concern and requires immediate intervention by the government. In particular, as a result of the activities of those who are already out of office, state programmes for the development and establishment of their own domestic nuclear fuel cycle have been disrupted. The production and processing of uranium concentrates have been rapidly reduced. That's about 30 percent. Despite the production of the first tons of uranium ore, the projected periods of entry into operation of the Novocostinian uranium ore plant have been destabilized, the production of nuclear industries has been destabilized, and a new threat to the destabilization of electricity production – the largest state energy-generating company and the security of the nuclear state has been created. So, dear friends, I'd like to address the government right now for immediate action in this regard. I would also like to ask the question that the situation needs an immediate and immediate intervention by the Prime Minister himself. In view of what has been adopted today, I would like to draw your attention also to the unconstitutionality of the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Service Act, which today under number 1,400 was voted on in the first reading and submitted by the national deputy Yanukovic. They thought of the obligation to know Russian as well as the Russian language of all civil servants, and to free themselves from party membership, and stateless persons, and so forth, including so - called governing staff. With regard to the situation that they want to exacerbate in Crimea, I would like to point out that the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation has no right to engage in military action on the side of the Russian Federation against those states with which Ukraine has signed agreements on friendship and mutual assistance. And that's obviously supposed to be for everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-19-m0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the plenary meeting is over. I want to remind you that next week we're going to have a plenary. Monday is a conciliatory council. There will be plenary meetings Tuesday through Friday. The plenary session is closed.
