ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to register. [[10:02:28]] There are 419 National Deputies registered in the Hall, and the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares it open. Before the speeches of the Ukrainian National Deputies, I have traditionally invited faction leaders to the Cabinet of the Supreme Council to drink tea, discuss the political situation, see if a new coalition has formed and set up a day-to-day order. Dear friends, please come to me for an hour. Tea's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u2	Colleagues, we sign up for announcements and messages and proposals from Ukrainian national deputies. Attention! I'm announcing a recording of the national MPs. Victor Corge, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u3	Please give the floor to Deputy Turmanov, Party of the Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u4	Please, Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, today I would like to announce a statement by the trade union of Ukrainian coal workers, which, we held the third meeting from 17 to 18 September and adopted a statement on the budget funding of the coal industry. But I won't read it to you because many deputies won't understand what the Government is offering to the miners. However, on 2 September, 446 deputies supported the Mining Prosperity Act, 100 per cent. You know, on 16 September, there was a budget presentation for 2009. I just want the Prime Minister here, speaking, to say that the industry is going to be, we already had priority, and now it's going to be the key. And that the Government allocates $14.8 billion of bracelets to the coal industry. And now you've got the budget to make it clear. The budget would appear to be doubling. But that's how the government works today, and all it wants to do is pry, woo, cheat. You look at the figure, it's 13.7 billion, it's like twice the budget. Well, there's a budget line down there. In 17 years of independence, this has never happened, and no Government has ever thought of including 7.5 billion mining pension payments in the industry's budget. We have pensions paid by the Pension Fund. Thus, these 7.5 billion now give the Government the opportunity to say that the budget is doubling. And if we remove this article, we get 6.1 billion bracelets for the 2009 budget. And compared to this year, this budget is worse this year than 600 million. So what are we talking about? What key industry? What are we fooling the miners today? Well, the miners won't be fooled. We discussed in detail at the convention what the Government wants and how beautifully it conveys. With regard to pay-as-you-go issues. The Act provides for a 30 per cent increase in the wage of miners, but the budget provides for an article twice as cost-effective. But the government says we're going to raise the price of coal by 60%. How can you say such things? We'll balance the energy. Well, let's raise 60, the energy will raise the price for electricity. This is not a solution to the problem. They raised coal prices this year, thanks to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u6	Well, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u7	This year, 100 million people have been pumped into energy. So we raised the price for coal. It's not in the budget this year. So I'm talking to my colleagues again, especially the Timoshenko Block, and I want you to influence and think, because there are lunatics in the Ministry of Finance, they just don't understand what they're doing today, but they're doing to tell people that we love miners, the industry is priority, the industry is key. It's all wrong. The budget is deceiving. And we shouldn't take him on the first reading, send him to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u8	Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! For three weeks now, our former partners from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, have been demonstrating the unseen, not even in the very pure Ukrainian politics of cynicism, putting crocodile tears in front of every camera about the coalition it has destroyed. At the same time, Timoshenko and her environment continue to implement common policies with Yanukovic and adopt anti - Ukrainian laws. "Our Ukraine" is aware of its responsibility to fellow countrymen, so even under such circumstances it gives a chance to get out of the pro-Creme majority and return to the form of a democratic coalition, or two, or along with the Block of Lithuania. Together with the Party of Regions and Communists, "Our Ukraine" will never go because we do not change our principles for the sake of our portfolios. "Our Ukraine" handed over to the leaders of the BUT factions and the "Block of Lithuania" the programming principles on which "Our Ukraine" proposes unification into a new coalition. We got the answer from the head of the BUIT faction. This is an extraordinary event in itself, because for three weeks now, the “Block of Timoshenko” has not answered any of our oral or written references. But unfortunately, the response of our former partners gives us very little chance of creating a new democratic coalition. First of all, it is not clear from this answer which specific principles proposed by “Our Ukraine” they agree with and which they do not agree with. Second, the content of the letter suggests that BUTT is not going to condemn Russian aggression against Georgia and to introduce the Black Sea fleet of Russia into the Crimea. Moreover, BUT literally duplicates the official position of the Kremlin: the presence of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine should be governed solely by an appropriate treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, as if by Ukraine someone had denied us the right to apply our legislation to foreign forces. And the point here is, as we have all stated, not as much about Georgia as it is about Ukraine, about the willingness to defend Ukrainian, not the Russian position on matters of national security, defence and foreign policy. Unfortunately, BUTT does not show such willingness. And thirdly, and most importantly, by adorning the press with this letter, the head of the BUT faction went on to vote with the regionals. And in no way is there a word in this letter about the readiness of the “Timoshenko Block” to negotiate the creation of a coalition with us. Last thing I want to say, gentlemen. Yesterday, it was stated that in the event of a decision to abolish parliamentary immunity being registered, the matter would be considered in the session room today. Such a determination is registered, so the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is consistent with our promises to the electorate. [[No. 1375-P]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u10	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u11	Ten seconds. requires that the question be put to the vote. Be honest, dear fellows, if you have promised to remove this parliamentary integrity before the electorate, keep your promise, we are ready to fulfill it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u12	Skin, faction of the Party of the Regions. Popov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! The critical situation that today lies in the housing and utility system, which I believe is already within the national security remit of the country, has made me enter this rostrum. The claim that the industry is now ready for the start of the heating season is, at least, self-deception or deliberate misinformation. The fact is that today the wear of equipment in the JCC system in different subsectors reaches 25 per cent and 84 per cent. This suggests that the industry in such a situation cannot work in a stable manner. The faction of the Party of the Regions has repeatedly referred to numerous errors made by the Government this year in implementing housing and utility policies. The result of such activities is the loss of enterprises in the mid-term, which is twice as high as in the same period of the previous year, the increase in wages in debt, also twice as high. But what's most interesting is that we're in a stage where energy prices have increased dramatically. By the end of the year, the price of gas and electricity will reach around 27-30 per cent. This will automatically increase housing and utility prices by more than 20 per cent. Even today, in Kirovograd, residents will pay more than 300 bracelets for heating only if they live in a two-bedroom apartment. But this is just the beginning. If someone is going to claim today that the local government is responsible, it is absolutely wrong. Because from my point of view, it is the Government that is to blame. It was this year that investment programme funding in the industry was sharply reduced by 2 billion less investment. This means that hundreds of kilometres of pipelines, thousands of pump or electrical equipment have not been replaced. But it is interesting to look at the Social and Economic Development Programme and the 2009 budget that the Government has offered us for consideration in the Supreme Council. We'll see absolute zeros there. This, respected colleagues, was not the case for the history of the independent State of Ukraine. What does that mean? This means that all the financial costs that housing and utilities will bear in the future for the renewal of their core funds will fall on tariffs or, in other words, on the budgets of the population of Ukraine. I offer to all of us political parties, factions will unite to prevent such policies from being taken together by those laws that will change the situation for the better for the benefit of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u14	Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u15	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I would like to highlight how the top officials of the State are involved in destroying their own producer and exacerbating the already systemic political and economic crisis in our country. Let me give you an example of an industry where I've worked for over 25 years, which is fireproof. In 2008, the Ministry of Finance, through Deputy Minister Fudashkin, made a 25-fold increase in the sub-ministerial salary for the sub-minister. The eight-month fight against this scourge has led to an increase of 1.439 times in the 2009 budget of the same Deputy Minister. Thus today, the price of fire-resistant raw materials that goes towards the production of fire-extinguishers is 140 bracelets, 39 of which should be paid only for the subsoil. There's no such absurdity in any commodity business, we're easier to close down these careers. I am addressing the Zaporozhye deputies today. First of all, this will affect the enterprises of the Priažov ore administration, which will touch the Zaporozhye Fireworks and Zaporozna, because the closure of the raw materials base will deprive them of the ability to purchase fireworks. I am addressing the BSS today, which, and I ask for an assessment of the actions of the Deputy Minister, who is today lobbying someone's interests and thus practically creating corruption and liberating the market, lifting firefighters from Poland, China and Russia. I am addressing the Attorney-General today, and I am offended today by the Prime Minister's request to assess the activities of the official, the Deputy Minister, who deliberately destroys his own producer. [[On Friday, I'll make it up to you with the relevant documents.]] Today, when it comes to what is actually happening in the fire-fighting industry, we are now due to a reckless price policy that is already 15 per cent more competitive, i.e. we are being driven out of the market. I am therefore asking and requesting officials to assess the activities of Deputy Minister Fudashkin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u16	Irina Akimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that, in times of political struggle, the economy is beyond our attention, the economic risks are increasing, and this is much more serious than the collapse of the orange coalition or the problem of what kind of coalition might be or when elections take place. Several facts and several responses to how the Government responds to rising economic risks. Fact number one is the financial risks, particularly the global financial market crisis. I remind you that Ukraine's trade balance is rising, the negative trade balance is rising. Next year, 2009, this will lead to negative balance of payments, because foreign direct investment is not enough to solve this problem. What does that mean? This means pressure towards devaluation of the bracelet and inflation problems. This is not a problem for macroeconomic politicians or macroeconomic professionals, it is a problem for our people. What's the government's answer to today? It is in keeping with the fact that it does not respond at all to what is happening in the world financial markets and invites us to increase the government budget deficit to more than three per cent next year. By doing so, we will finance this if the funds we can borrow in the external markets are becoming more expensive and expensive. The second fact is that the inflationary pressure in Ukraine is the highest in comparison with our eastern and western neighbours. We are ahead of the world in the field of inflation. As the Government responds, it is in line with the hope that administrative prices can be further regulated, that the administration tariffs of the JCC can be regulated, that will lead to only one sharp rise in prices and the collapse of the JCC. The Government is committed to triple the rate of wage growth next year compared to the rate of economic growth. Any pensioner knows you can only eat what you've earned, what you've done. The inflationary spiral is disintegrating, nothing is done but a tightening of the situation. And fact three. The pace of economic growth has already begun to decline, and against the backdrop of declining investment attractiveness, we have a fall in gross capital accumulation. The Government's proposal is an increase in future budget consumption. What a conclusion. All pragmatic politicians should open their eyes and work together to prepare an anti-crisis plan, which includes, firstly, combating inflation, secondly, combating the risks associated with the financial crisis. We need to send all the excess budget revenues this year to the Stabilization Fund to ensure the independence of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u18	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u19	And to adopt an inefficient budget. Without these measures, under any political situation, the country may fall into the economic crisis by the end of 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u20	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u21	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Honorable citizens of Ukraine! In my speech, I'm going to try to explain that theater of absurdity that was set up in the Supreme Council of Ukraine by representatives of one not very large but very loud faction headed by the President of Ukraine. Of course, explain as much as possible. Here's what I'm talking about. After completely illegal early elections by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, representatives of this political force, along with their orange counterparts, developed a so-called democratic coalition in Parliament. Why is it so called democratic, and because democracy doesn't smell the latest events confirm it. So, they formed a coalition, they wrote an appropriate coalition agreement where they recorded the promise of a price tag in front of each other and in front of their voters. And the coalition train was on the move. And so good, so comfortable, they were so comfortable riding on a coalition train that they forgot about their election promises. Representatives of this political force have never mentioned their promises to voters for months. Because if they had mentioned, and more added, at least minimal efforts, they would have been led by their coalition of President Yushchenek of Ukraine, Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine and Head of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Ukraine, without a doubt they would have met their pre-election promises easily. But they did not mention them, and they did not. Because they didn't want to. They felt so comfortable on the coalition train, what's the point of this? But everything good and good ends one day. That's what happened this time. The horizon was marred by new elections. And then the nastiest spoke horribly of their unfulfilled coalition promises. So how do we go to the election? How can you cheat people on a regular basis? And they rushed to find a neck to hang their own unfulfilled pre-election coalition promises. I want to hope that these pre-electionists will not be able to fool people on their own. The pre-election promises of the orange coalition were not fulfilled, not because someone was interfering with them, but because they were not going to do so. And I'd like the voters to know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u22	The fences. Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! In the Supreme Council of Ukraine, calls for patriotism, the protection of state interests, are very common. I have to say that in fact, in Ukraine and in the Ukrainian government, the fundamental principle underlying the development and protection of national economic interests is essentially a principle of economic patriotism. In developed countries of the world, when it comes to creating jobs in their territory, when it comes to investing, protecting the internal market, supporting exporters, all political forces are united around these issues, and society is united regardless of political sympathy. The unadopted Tax Code, corrupt land relations, blocked pension reform -- these are devastating blows to the competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy, to the well-being of our citizens. The negative external trade balance is projected at minus 20 billion in the current year. That's what I'm talking about. To compare: in 2005, there were minus two, that is, in three years -- 10 times, that's the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. In such a situation in no state would this matter be out of the question. Unfortunately, we do not turn and ignore once again our economic interests. Investment climate. I will not go too far as I am concerned. Kyiv region: Today 1 billion are blocked. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 30 June 2016. It's worth a lot of money to make today's investment projects. There's an artificial tension around an investment project in the White Church. KNAUF refuses to work in Ukraine because the level of pinching and corruption is unprecedented. An investor who has the basis of an investment in land-relationship issues is walking around a closed circle for two or three years, and not everyone comes to this finish. I have to say that not only are these issues being identified here in Ukraine but world organizations are already being alarmed. Recent World Bank research confirms that according to the level of fiscal imperfection, Ukraine’s tax system is 180 places worldwide. On the level of investment protection, 145 places. At the same time, Ukraine takes its last place in Europe. Only Albania and Moldova are behind us. That's why the faction of the Party of Regions -- and I'm sure it's supported by both industry and entrepreneurs and Ukrainian employers -- calls for all to unite around solving the pressing socio-economic problems of the state and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u24	Cosmiakin, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u25	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The Timoshenko Block is deeply concerned about the processes currently taking place in the country's political life. Modern - day realities require us to let go of our differences and mutual accusations, excess ambitions, and insults. We must work together for people who have entrusted us with their destiny and the future of their children. An absolute priority today should be to avoid the impact of crises on the economy and the social sphere of the state. To that end, responsible political forces in the Supreme Council must do everything possible and even impossible. The people will not forgive if we leave the country disarmed in the face of world challenges. Whether someone wants it or not, in today’s situation, only an effective government and an effective Supreme Council can take the situation under control and ensure that serious current problems are resolved expeditiously. These bodies should become reliable centres of stability in Ukraine, decision-making and implementation. We don't have any other options. Further steps in resolving political instability should be taken to take into account the need for uninterrupted and professional work called my stabilisation centers. Yulia’s government, Timoshenko, has already proved its effectiveness. This is highlighted by some of the highest economic growth rates in Europe and 32 billion non-planned arrivals to the State budget over the six months. Finally, the Supreme Council worked. It takes long-awaited decisions by society and the economy. Their goal is to balance authority, create conditions for the effective and responsible work of executive power, business, and thus the rise of the standards of living of Ukrainian citizens. Who may not like it? Only those who have their own ambitions and private interests to take precedence over social needs are those who are willing to neglect the future country and people’s well - being for the sake of a limited circle of relatives and business partners. I don't have any more tolerant assumptions when you look at how the President of Ukraine, with his own hands and with the hands of his assistants and the Secretariat, is trying to make it as difficult as possible for the government of his country, formed, by the way, with its own political power. Dear former partners in the democratic coalition, we haven't done everything we planned together in a coalition agreement. So you and I should be extremely motivated to continue our cooperation. We've repeatedly called for "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" to return. Finally make your own decision, and let us continue to work together for the Ukrainian people. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's situation, you and I are destined to have a constructive dialogue and look for ways to resolve the political crisis. It is doomed, since the choice of the next, early elections is notoriously unacceptable from every point of view, the Ukrainian society does not want it. That is why we are able to cooperate with all the political forces that are willing to support and assume responsibility for stability and peace in the state. To guarantee her safety and to move further to the wealth of her citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u26	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u27	Dear parliamentarians, honourable Ukrainian voters, of course, would be the simplest and most primitive to let go of emotion and I from this rostrum have to answer the colleague of Zvaric to him, well, say, a short-sighted speech with premeditated accusations. Because to accuse the Yulia Tymoshenko Block of our statement on Georgia of promoskovsky, if Mr. Zvaric may not have read the English language at all, we are ready to translate it into English. It's very, very much in place. The second thing I'd like to say is that we made the statement "Timoshenko's Yulia Block," we will, I declare, and I want our voters to hear it, we'll believe that by the last second of that term, we'll believe that there's a chance in Ukraine today that there's a chance that there's no big compromise, no big deal, no big shock to create a new coalition in the form of "Litvina Block", NUNS and "Timoshenko's Yulia Block." That's the chance, and let's be very careful. As Zvetsky used to say, “One reckless movement is you, too, father.” This is exactly the same situation. Let us be right now and not seek out what separates us, but what unites us. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one more thing: while you and I are here, and each of us is demonstrating our own, on the one hand, high national interests, and others are accusing, say, the government and Yulia Timoshenko of national betrayal -- this is what we need to think about! – we've completely forgotten that Ukraine has remained completely defenseless today. And I want to draw attention to that. There is now a court in The Hague for the island of Snakes. I want to remind you that the Dragon is not just an island already inhabited by Ukraine, but by 15-20 years in the Black Sea shelf around this island of Ukraine, it can be oil and gas. I will not explain how important this is to Ukraine. Today the process is under way, headed by Romania. We have many facts than Romania. The island is inhabited by Ukrainians, already living there, and oil and gas are purchased there. But the Romanians, they have to give them their dues, don't let John Popescu insult me, they're running this trial. One of the MEPs is in charge of this group. From Ukraine, in fact, I don't want to offend anyone, there are our diplomats, but Ukraine is represented by an incredible quality. Who will pay attention to our differences? I very much ask the President, too, to the Prime Minister: influence this situation, we have no right to lose Snake Island, it's our territory, it's inhabited by Ukrainians. I believe so. And I believe there will be a coalition in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u28	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u29	I believe there will be a coalition just as I said it would. For Ukraine, this is the only salvation. Mr. President, do this. It's up to you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u30	Colleagues, the factions have ended. I'll tell you what the agenda is. Oh, Zvaric Replica Roman Mikhailovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Volodymyr, I don't care what language you give the answer to our positions, but let it be even Arabic, Hebrew, English -- which one you want. Although, judging from your vote in favour of Russian, let it be Russian. But the questions are very specific. Are you prepared to condemn Russian military aggression in Georgia or not? Say one word. Are you prepared to condemn the use of our sovereign territory to carry out a military attack against our ally? No jamming, yeah or no? Are you prepared to defend Ukraine’s public interests?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u32	Colleagues, I hereby announce to you the order of today's meeting on the issues that are being proposed. First. Once again, we need to eliminate disagreements in the newly adopted Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine. I explain where these disagreements came from and why we will vote on them. Come on, colleagues. It's a very important thing. Bill 1061-5. Only with the help of Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich did the bill come into order in the daytime. Finally, the second reading is about regulating road traffic relations. Next, 0927. This is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. It's a matter of state emergency relief services and the elimination of the consequences of disasters and technological accidents. Next, 0939. It's also a matter of technological safety. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection. Come on, comrades. 3087, 3087-1, 3087-2. For the committee's decision. I don't see the committee's decision yet. This is a bill amending the 2008 Act on the State Budget for the Agro-industry sector. There will be a committee decision, we will consider it. I suggest, if there's a committee decision, first reading today, then send it to the committee, so that the second reading is on Thursday, if you can get ready by Thursday. Then it's 0055, 0067 and 0094. These are three ratifications. Ratification of the guaranteed agreement between Ukraine and the EBRD, ratification of the loan agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Development and Reconstruction and ratification of the loan agreement also between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction. That's all, fellows who are now being offered. There's a motive, please. Let's do it with motive. Three minutes. Let's sign up. Anatoly Kinach. Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u33	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, we have already spent an hour of valuable parliamentary time trying to break the agenda. I think you've read the agenda. It agreed, it went, a positive decision on each issue, a positive vote should not be wasted, given that there would be meetings of the committees today. I propose to begin consideration of the issues and to begin the work of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u34	Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u35	Mikhailo Kossov, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party "Reforms and Orders". Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to address you first, and secondly, I would like to address colleague Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. About five years ago, Yuri Anatoliyovich drafted a bill on, so to speak, the President's Secretariat today and then the President's Administration. I think it was a period of deep, as we said, Bushmism, but I think today the relevance of this project is no less than or even greater. So, first of all, I'm addressing the author, and I'm addressing you as the Head of the Supreme Council and all the leaders of the MP factions, so go to the Conciliation Council and put this project into discussion, because it's sad and embarrassing when it's done in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u36	Rubber. Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u37	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, honourable voters, first of all, we insist on putting into order the day-to-day issue of cancelling parliamentary immunity. Yesterday, there was an appeal by the Head of the Supreme Council to rule on this matter. I report to the Ukrainian electorate - the decree is made by the faction “Our Ukraine”. We are ready to vote in favour of this issue now without any pretext. Any excuses that come up with the "Timoshenko Block" and the Party of Regions not to vote on the intended. And they will only lead to the fact that these factions will betray this commitment to their electorate, as they have betrayed on other matters. Now the second one. Roman Zvaric has just made a very specific statement to the "Timoshenko Block" about the assessment of the Russian-Georgian conflict and the actions of the Russian Black Sea fleet from our territory near the shores of Georgia. People didn't see it here, and BUT was intensely waving his hands that he agreed with our position, and we're now proposing to make a joint decision with the BUDGET, to vote and thus restore the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u38	Nadona's.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u39	May I have a word with you, Ekaterina Semenovne Samoylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u40	Please, Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u41	Thank you very much. I would like you to speak so enthusiastically when Iraq was bombed and you were not so principled when you went to pieces of Yugoslavia. Dear Arseny Petrovich! The fact that you're asking questions that haven't been discussed at the committee meeting is quite impressive to me. Our committee has considered a whole range of issues regarding the social protection of teachers and scientists, this is the pension provision of teachers, this is 57 articles of the Education Act, in which fines are now increasing. It's funding out-of-school education. These are changes to tax laws for the transport of vocational schools and so forth. The laws are ready, there are conclusions from the Science and Technology Department, there is a committee decision, I don't understand why.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u42	Colleagues! Thank you for your discussion. First. With regard to changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. The Supreme Council’s decree to amend article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine was registered this morning. I gave an immediate commission to the committee to consider this decision and unfortunately failed to convince the faction leaders of the need to consider this decision, and this project at the current plenary meeting. The other one. With regard to the proposals made by Viacheslav Anatoliyovich regarding common ground. Please, if you have a joint decision between "Our People's Self-Defense" and "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko" and you give the Head of the Supreme Council a joint signed letter, in accordance with the requirements of the Temporary Rules, I have the full right to put to the vote the question of including in the agenda of that draft decision, which you just said, Vijacheslav Anatoliyovich. Third. Let me briefly inform you that the faction leaders were discussing the progress of coalition negotiations, which could lead to the following: nothing is clear yet, but there is no result. This is paragraph one. The second item raised the question of the need for legislative harmonization of hypothetical elections. I think it's premature to make decisions both first and second, let's wait, there's still time. But at the same time, I'm pointing to the need to step up the negotiations, because now they're at the point of freezing, at least in the public domain. And they say they're very active in public. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the issue of the approval of the agenda you just announced today. I'll answer now. [[11:45:42]] For-300 Decision taken. On the question of Catherine Seed, I report. Dear Catherine Semenovna, the entire order is formed by all the leaders of the factions. These are not the whims of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding inclusion or non-inclusion. There is a consolidated decision-making process. I'm addressing you, you have the leader of the factions of the great Peter Mikolaiovich, make these proposals for the Conciliation Council. Not once did these proposals occur at the faction leaders’ meeting. Colleagues, let's move on to Bill 0871. So I'm going to brief you on what's going on. We have adopted amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Remember, the standard was changed where the secretary proposed more than one third of the warehouse. And at least half of me will make the right council. We put it in one article, in article 50, and in one of the paragraphs, we left the old rule. So it turns out that after the adoption of the law, we have two rules in the same law. The first rule that determines the order of proposals is not less than half. And the second rule that's left behind is one third. The 131st Rules provide for the possibility of eliminating disagreements in this bill. So where did I come from for legal reasons? First. A committee called out, a committee of profile, which, in fact, had to remove these differences at the time of the vote of this law as a whole. But they turned to the 19th and clearly defined their request, until the signing of the Supreme Council, to remove these differences. So, how do the disagreements go away? First, the Head of the Supreme Council proposes. Second, you vote. Third, if there is 226, there is no voting in general on these differences anymore. And when I sign the corresponding act, I'll sign it with the newly voted amendment. Is that clear? We leave each other. Do you want to talk about it? Sign up, three minutes. Zinov Skutak.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u43	I'll pass on the word to the Keykovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u44	Yuri Klukkowski “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mr. Head! I support your proposal to clarify this conflict that has arisen in law. But once again, I would like to point out that this coalition was created not by the low quality of the committee's work, but by the violation of the adoption procedure of this law in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the Rules, amendments to the Rules should not be considered. This amendment was made spontaneously, by vote, in violation of the Rules, but was supported by the new coalition that was actually formed in the Supreme Council. So this is another example of a gross violation of the principles of parliamentaryism in the Supreme Council Hall. Your efforts, the efforts of the legal authorities to correct these errors, unfortunately, may in many cases be inadequate, and this style of work needs to be fundamentally changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u45	Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u46	Klinkarov, the Communist faction. I think we must, of course, bring the law into line. But I think we should leave the right to the post of Secretary???? the Council, not half the deputies, but the third, because in any case, there will be a vote of fifty per cent, plus one. That's why I think we should leave one third, and I think it's going to be totally normal. We will grant the minority the right to appoint, if there is an authority, a secretary of the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u47	Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u48	Please give the Hare to Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u49	John Haretz, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I support the proposal that these two norms should be brought into line, but I want to draw attention to both the Chief of the Supreme Council and the National Deputies, here's the problem. On many occasions we have heard that the solidarity of the BUT and the Party of Regions has finally brought order and meaning to the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But Parliament's practice over the past few weeks has shown a reversal. A bill on the prestige of mining was voted on, and the day after, changes were made. The Cabinet of Ministers bill was voted on, and again, changes were made a day later. We've voted this bill, we're making changes again. People are good, and where is the planning, where is the work, where the work is designed. So I think we need to get it right now, but at the expense of one third of the initiators, it has to be, not the majority, because most of them are going to get into conflict again and there's not going to be any result again. So I urge you to do a meaningful job, not populism.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u50	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u51	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, of course, if a mistake is made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it should be corrected, as they say, nowhere to be done. But one more time, I would like to draw attention to trying to accept the raw documents. In particular, and yesterday, representatives of the faction “Our Ukraine” insisted that the document submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by the way, a document which was made of three bills had been glued to one, tried to accept it in general. It's a good thing that we didn't have the wisdom and courage to do this yesterday, it confirms once again that we should be responsible for considering those bills that apply and what the Supreme Council Rules provide for first reading, preparing for second reading, and doing everything else fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u52	Comrades, the discussion is over. So I'm reporting to you. But it's over, well, for what reasons, it's just been written down, so what? Dear colleagues, the next proposal is to put the settlement of disagreements to the vote. Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, but I also want to, but I had to sign up. It's easier for me to give you my word than to argue with you. Give Matthew a microphone. Catherine Semenovna, I will give you, too, everything will be fairer, extreme "left" and extreme "right"
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u53	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" block. Arsenius Petrovich, I want to address you as you really have the constitutional right to resolve the problem of disagreement. But the problem of disagreement is up to one third or half? And obviously this is not a question to be put to the vote today, because I really think that one third will leave any democracy of alternative voting, half will take away this alternative, we've done everything for it, and I want to go to my colleagues, we've taken a very dangerous step, we're a lower philosophy of a strong head. And this bill is even more, if we leave half of it, it lowers the philosophy of a strong head. In proportional elections we form a party dictatorship, the head is elected globally, we have no right to take such a step until we change electoral legislation. So, Arseny Petrovich, don't put this to a vote right now, let's put it to a consultation, including the committee, and vote no nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u54	Colleagues, now look at the situation. You can bet, you can bet, but if you want to do what the Rules provide, the committee has made me a clear offer. Alexander Alexander Omelchenko even signed a letter with respect to the Head of the Supreme Council, proposing the following thing. It suggests that we go back to the consideration and eliminate this contradiction, namely, to identify one another as voted. Well, a letter is a committee, colleagues, which is a letter from the committee, is a letter from the head of the committee. I mean, look, comrades, as stipulated by the regulations. I'm putting this to a vote. In that case, if the proposal is not supported, then, in itself, the question is removed. I'm going to put a second sentence on the vote, change the previous article and go back to one-third. Understood, comrades? I see. Colleagues, therefore, according to the 131st Provisional Rules, I am voting on paragraph seven of the new edition of article 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Paragraph 8 of paragraph 2 of the adopted law should be amended as follows: In the event that the Council did not support the nomination submitted for its consideration, not less than half of the deputies, you have heard the word half, from the general composition of the appropriate council in accordance with paragraph 2 of this section, the next proposal for the nomination of the Secretary of the Council shall be made by the appropriate village, village, city head. Comrades, we vote in favour of the proposal, in accordance with the 131st Rules. [[11:56:03]] For 305 Decision taken. Let me show you through the factions. Region Party – 138, BUT – 147, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 0, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Colleagues, I don't vote in general. It's not a rule. So I'm signing with the corresponding edit. The following bill is being promulgated: this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on improving road safety relations. Basil Gretzak, please report. [[second reading]]
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Today, in our second reading, we are considering a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations. Registration number 1061-5. The need for its speedy acceptance is due to the terrible situation on Ukraine’s highways. The state of emergency has already reached its critical limit. Every day hundreds of dead and dead. The state-of-the-state extermination, as in July-August 2008 alone, was $56,000. 283 road accidents involving 1,532 deaths and 14,000 injuries. 443 people. Since the beginning of 2008, there have been 216 thousand on Ukraine’s roads. 121 road accident, which killed 5,000. 317 people and 46,000 injured. 335 people. [[Think about it!]] To implement the Supreme Council decision of 17 September 2008 by the Committee on Law Enforcement, the bill has been finalized and prepared for consideration in a second reading. In the process of processing, the amendments made by the national deputy of the Ukraine of Olijnik are taken into account: the harmonization of fines for criminal offences in the area of road safety and penalties for administrative offences. The relevant amendments are made to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, page 2. It's about the use of evacuees. Only in cases where the deployment of a vehicle significantly impedes traffic. Relevant amendments are made to article 265-2 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and to part two of article 52-1 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, pages 37 and 73. In addition, according to the proposal of the Ukrainian national deputy, Moses ’ committee included amendments to the following articles: article 254 of the Code of Administrative Offences. The protocol does not consist in the detection of offences detected by automatic camera cameras. [[page 32]] To article 260: on the order of compensation caused by the illegal application of security and enforcement measures. [[page 35]] To article 267 of article 290, to article 291, to article 303. The bill also excludes changes in the placement of advertisements.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u56	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u57	A section on the amendment of the Ukrainian Advertising Act has been removed from the bill in general. Excluded changes in part two of article 9, articles 37 and 38 of the Ukrainian Roads Act, pages 78, 80, 82, 84. [[on the placing of commercials on the road]] Also included are some changes in insurance. Relevant amendments have been made to articles 34, 37 of the Road Traffic Act, excepted amendments to articles 17 and 21 of the Ukrainian Law “On mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners”, pages 66, 68, 88, 89. [[on insurance]] [[on contract deadlines and refusal of registration and technical review in the absence of an insurance contract]] In addition, the amendments to article 24 of the Ukrainian Law “On Executive Conduct” have been excluded, as well as the amendments to the “Conclusion Regulations” to take effect in relation to the exclusion of individual provisions of the law. [[page 92]] So there were 18 proposals for the bill, and they're all included. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u58	Comrades, the bill is very important. In principle, it is important to note that this has resulted in lobbying, insurance, advertising, and so forth. We were going to drag people out, and we were going to drag a little bit of money into people's lives. But here's the mass of things that the Supreme Council's apparatus, the Chief Legal Authority, simply draws attention to some disagreements. I was informed by Alexander Volodymyrovich that, in principle, part of these differences could be removed by voting on the amendments of Pisarenko. So let's talk about these things in a very substantive way right now in the process of adopting the bill. Okay? Who has the correction, who insists? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, my amendments are, in principle, taken into account by the committee. But I want to explain to the MPs and to those who listen to us what they are about. The point is that, if you remember, we argued about the fines. I think it's quite a compromise and a wise decision, and we've managed to achieve in today's edition such that the penal courts are, they're, they're coming back, but it's imperative to take this vehicle away that a police officer can only be, in cases where the car is obstructing, it's significantly hampering traffic -- it's the right thing to do. Because on the one hand, it's a norm that really puts order on the roads, when people are inadequate, they just put cars and they create obstacles, and on the other hand, we don't think there's going to be any seductiveness when it's just cars, in fact, they're stealing from under trees and people don't know where their children are. So once again, evacuation takes place only in cases where the traffic of the car is significantly hampered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u60	Mr. Saintess, there is one problem. So let's define what does it mean to "substantially interfere with road traffic"? A good guy comes out in shape and says, "She's a major obstacle, because I'm not worthy to get into this layer." Is that logical?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u61	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u62	So what does the definition itself mean: “substantially hinders”? Where do you put it? And we're transferring it to a subjective decision of the inspector, that is, we're forcing him to make a decision that he won't make. More specifically, it can be accepted from a subjective point of view. Turn on the mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u63	Arsenius Petrovich, that's why I suggested we rule out this possibility at all. But I'm saying it's a compromise decision, it's an editorial that the committee has agreed to, and at least it leaves to the court the possibility of accusing this forcible removal. Although I agree with you a hundred percent that going back to the past, but unfortunately, I didn't support the room at that time, and today the committee has proposed an editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u64	Vasil Mikolaiovich, tell me! You know how State Inspectorate works. Admit it!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u65	I know how State Inspectorate works. We discussed the matter quite extensively at the committee meeting. We are, in principle. We're the People's Deputies of the Oliynik. There was no need to persuade us, for in the committee there are many people who have sufficient experience and know how law enforcement agencies work, including DAI. But I think it's a compromise decision that we've supported, which was made by Deputy Olijnik, we have to leave him. And what you're saying is that there's going to be some inadequacies, they're going to be, of course, I'm sure of that. This law does not clearly place everything, the concept and the periphery, and whether a parking lot is allowed or not. Well, there are questions that will, of course, depend largely on the professional activities of the DAI workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u66	Yes, please tell me the article number. Mr. Svetoslav, tell me the article. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u67	This is the fourth amendment, this is the fourth amendment, article 265 marked 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u68	Now let's see where it went, this fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u69	Well, besides, Arseny Petrovich, while you're looking at the fourth amendment, I want to pay attention to the first one. There it was that the fine for administrative offences was set to 35 untaxed minimums. In the Criminal Code, it starts in the 30s. I mean, a criminal fine can be less than an administrative fine. It was decided in a strange way, by increasing a particular part of the Criminal Code. Well, it's kind of a weird logic to me, but in principle, they took the colossal, although it's legally imperfect, this structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u70	Well, colleagues, that's me. You see, I'll tell you one thing as a discussion of this law. The law must be adopted with certainty, but if we adopt this law without reforming the internal situation in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it is to the light bulb. I'm sorry to say that. So we, on the one hand, are raising sanctions, but we have to understand clearly that we have to raise the responsibility of internal affairs officials in parallel. These are things that are synchronized. So that we don't make things that happened in Moscow. So what do we do with this 265? Do we leave it in the form that the committee has proposed? So we're actually leaving the subjective approach? Olinick's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u71	Arsenija Petrovich, if you have such an initiative, then you can put my first proposal to the vote: to rule out these fines. If it's supported in the hall, there won't be any fines. If not, the committee will be edited. And there's more. Arsenius Petrovich, I have a request for you. Arsenius Petrovich! There is such a request to you as to the presiding officer. We can therefore, Arsenija Petrovich, draw the Minister of Internal Affairs' attention to the fact that in the case of the adoption of this law and in general he would have to settle some issues with his internal orders. For example, banning police personnel from standing closer than 500 meters from the board, where the locality ends so that police officers can prevent crime rather than collect money. That is to say, the minister is a protocol minister who can use some of the orders to resolve and organize the discipline of the DAI workers themselves. So there's another proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u72	I think this proposal is good. But once we're protocol, we're legislators. So if we go to the level of legal regulations, we're illegally interfering with the Minister of Internal Affairs. We have no right to do that. You know, it just wasn't enough for Parliament to give separate orders to the Minister of Internal Affairs. That's why we're going to get lost in three pines. We're going to have to vote. Let's go through Pisarenko's revisions, fellows. Let's do that. Here's my offer. There's nothing eternal. If we adopt this law, and it makes sense here that the mass of vehicles is blocking the entrances to hospitals, to parts of the fire, to parts of the military, and so on and so forth. Directly enter a car that is not able to drive into a residential area. So if you look at this thing globally, let's leave this rule alone, and the individual things that apply to individuals or individuals, they will be able to defend their rights in court. Can we do that? We're leaving the norm. Let's leave. I mean, there's no questions. I think we'll take a walk on that balance. I'm asking you to turn on Pisarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u73	We're on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u74	Oh, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. You've got some repairs here. Could you brief me on the repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u75	Well, I put them on the committee. Yeah. And today, the committee and I have discussed that, in principle, we can either go through them or we all go through them now, they relate to more editorial moments and that at some point we set too high a responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see that when we establish responsibility at the level of 10 years of disqualification. Well, it seems to me that a man, well, it can be deprived of his right to rule at all. I think we need to record this. Here, and there's the editorial papers. The committee has already seen them, or we're going to include them, read them under the protocol, or we're going to give them as a separate supplement, because we don't have enough time to look at them all at the meeting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u76	It's very logical to make a reconciliation between KUAP and criminal responsibility, because it turns out that the administration's responsibility is three times higher than the one provided for in the Criminal Code. It's legal nonsense. That is why there is such an offer. Why don't we take a look at the amendments of Comrade Pisarenko? How are you, comrades? How do you look? And we vote them out, and then we agree on criminal and administrative responsibility? Is it supported? Well, come on, I went after his first correction. You better turn on the microphone to the Pisarenko College, let him report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u77	Arsenius Petrovich, perhaps you? You'd rather have this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u78	If you give the order, it's okay. So, let's go. First amendment. It refers to part one of article 30. So part of the first article 30 suggests replacing the words “three years” with “two years” and “ten years” with “three years”. This is about depriving a citizen of the right to drive vehicles. From the age of three, we put two years, and for a gross violation of ten, we put three years. Where are you going for five years? Five? You know, I'm sorry when we set our fingertips in the sky, there's also a question about the authority of the legislator. Pisarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, we all understand that responsibility must be, but let us understand what five or ten years is. It's a person who just loses any right to control for years to come. Let's, for three years, this is the optimal term even in criminal law, there's no such punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u80	Colleagues, let's support the amendment made by Pisarenko. All right, fellows! Part one of article 30 replaces two new parts of such content. Parts of the content read to you, do you have a comparative table? All of it. Amendment number one, tabled by the People’s Deputy Pisarenko. Please vote in favour of the amendment. [[12:12:48]] For 323 Now for the next amendment. Paragraph 2 of article 108 should be inserted in such an edition, and here is an editorial. There was a "one month" number, and here, by regulation, in principle, we have to vote by regulation, by colleagues. Vote for the second amendment, it's editorially, the Legal Department will do it when you sign me. We're through. Let's move on. Article 122. What we've got here right now. Exceeding the speed limits set by drivers to prohibit traffic control and other traffic regulations. Infringements foreseen in Part One, Part Two. after the word “responsibility”, add the word “tolerant person for whom an emergency situation has been created”. That is, it expands the circle of those on whom responsibility is imposed. I think that's the right thing to do, because there's a person who's having an emergency situation. That is, we expand the circle of those who will be subject to administrative responsibility. It's the right thing to do. Comrades, do we support Comrade Pisarenko? We vote in favour of this amendment. This is the third amendment in the table to Article 122. [[12:14:14]] For 326 Colleagues, there are two choices. Option one, take a break for 30 minutes. Option two is to vote without interruption. Do you mind if I vote without a break? Please vote without interruption or until the second reading is completed. Better yet, without interruption or second reading? Until the end of the second reading. Okay. Come on. Vote, comrades. [[12:14:48]] For 305 That's the thing. For 305. So, we vote 122nd, the third amendment of the People's Deputy Pisarenko. [[12:15:10]] For the 320. Correction accepted. Now came the next fourth amendment. Article 125, paragraph 2 of Article 125, to be edited. That's what it is right now, it's carrying a fine of 1 to 4 non-taxable minimums. Exclusion. Motivation is the unwarranted increase in responsibility, including for minor violations of the PRTRs, such as the traffic of the car as far as possible for the purpose of circumvention of inequality and sound signals, and so forth, so - called minor violations. The National MP Pisarenko proposes to exclude responsibility for minor violations. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u81	I wanted to explain to my colleagues that this is about responsibility, like speeding one mile an hour or driving one centimeter per stop line. That is, petty violations for which they will be. Well, subjective demands of the DAI employees. Let's take the responsibility for this at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u82	What's more, you know what happens is different cases: why you're driving behind, why you're fast, why you're slow. This will probably be the right suggestion, because such petty violations will provoke, I don't want to say abuse, but they will provoke those or other officials to act in a not-so-ordinary manner. Let's vote on this fourth amendment. [[12:16:46]] For 324 Here's the thing, "Pro" is 324. Let's move on. “Violence of non-compliance with rules and standards relating to road safety”. “Contraventions, or failure to comply with rules and standards relating to road traffic in enterprises, institutions, organisations” continued to follow the text. So it is proposed that the words “from 15 to 20” be replaced by the words “from 100 to 120 untaxed minimums”. This size of the sanctions in the project is negligible. This is about a substantial increase in sanctions for remodeling illegal vehicles, construction, reconstruction, repairs of highways, streets, railways, and transportation. In principle, it would be logical to raise such a sanction, absolutely. Fellows, let's support these amendments, let's support the amendment. Note that in the second paragraph, part one, article 122 first. 1 amend “from 15 to 20” to “from 100 to 120”. And part two, paragraph two, part one of Article 128. 1, also replace “from 20 to 25” with “150 and 180”. This is about non-taxable minimums. Substantial increase in sanctions for violations. Vote. That's right. [[12:18:24]] For 308. Can I ask you a question? Tell me, on the phone, we settled the question, didn't we? The biggest emergency today is that there are pretty girls sitting there and God knows who's on the phone and looking where you want it, not the windshield. We got something fixed on the cell phone, don't we? School, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u83	Thank you, Arsen Petrovich! In fact, I made an adjustment to compare talking on a mobile phone to the same complex disorder as driving alcohol abuse because, believe me, the person who conducts the conversation is driving a car with a gearbox and on the phone, driving on the road like a drunkard. It's usually a bit of a joke, but in fact, it's necessary to increase the responsibility here and compare it. The traffic rules say you can't use the phone, but let's get a sanction on what happens when a person uses a mobile phone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u84	Mr. Andrey, while we're voting on Pisarenko's amendments, look at your amendment and tell me your number, we need to make a decision on our cell phone right away. I looked at the statistics, the two biggest problems of emergency: cell phone calls and texting, which means they're still figuring out what it's doing behind the wheel, and it's still texting. Colleagues, let's move on to the revisions. 130, operating vehicles or ships in an alcoholic state. Oh, these are serious customers. Comrade Pisarenko proposes a reduction of three years from ten. Discussive norm. I suggest, right, five. Five and each. Let's give Pisarenko the microphone and let's think about it. It's more political and I'd say it's not even political, it's a psychological norm. Let's have a Pisarenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, you know, we can take this emotionally, but let's understand that we're setting a measure of responsibility not to leave a person with his rights, but to re-emerge. In three years without a steering wheel, when a person runs on the subway and on the routes, he will travel for three years in such a way that he does not drink at all for 30 miles an hour. So let's understand that this is too high a measure of responsibility and five years I also think that's a lot. Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I have once proposed that alcohol be transferred at all for driving from administrative responsibility to criminal, since 75 percent of road deaths are caused by accidents because one of the participants in this accident was in a state of drunkenness. So this is actually, when you're sitting drunk on a wheel, you have to be, you have to understand that it's actually an assassination attempt. And so if we're talking about 10 years, let's say that before a person drinks a drink and takes a driving seat, he thinks that 10 years won't fit in with a transport vehicle. And so the more and more responsibility we have, especially in a country where vodka costs 10 dollars and it and it can be bought even by minors, if we're honest with ourselves, that's exactly what's normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u87	Pisarenko, Zarubinski and I don't see who else is there. Colleagues, come on, three of them are too much, one.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, first of all, if I'm not mistaken, last time we passed the law this last time, we voted for 3 years, we didn't vote for 10 years. And we've done it in a balanced way, we don't work on this law. Dear colleagues, I'm not talking about drinking driving is good, but let's be clear. What, then, do we want this bill to achieve so that people can drive normally or not drive at all? So let's be balanced, the voters will understand, because it's a very good thing to set up a responsibility that will teach people, not prohibit them from driving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u89	Oleg Lukashuk and we're done. Excuse me, Oleg Zarubinsky, then Oleg Lukashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think you can agree with Comrade Pisarenko for three years and why. You know, for many people driving this is a form of earning, let's think about the families of those who can't make basic family income for 10 years. Three years is quite enough. But I wanted to ask another question, and what would happen if we were in a drug situation, we were writing out in a state of drunkenness, and in a drug situation, it was less dangerous for society. Maybe it's just as dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u91	Zarubinski, I'm sorry, Lukashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I would like to support Pisarenko and point out that the person who worked in the auto industry knows that even drinking leaven can sometimes show alcohol abuse. For ten years, we will leave our country without transportation if we apply this rule. I'm counting, the reasonable standard is three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u93	Colleagues, they'll drink less. We need to drink at the table, not at the wheel. That's the first one. The other one. Read the article carefully. Comrades, come on, be quiet. Read the article carefully. It's a re-infringement over the course of the year. If a person has been attracted twice by alcohol or drugs for a year. So what are we gonna put him on for three years? Ten will fall, and that's it. Comrade Pisarenko, I ask you to support the hall. That's again, secondly, come on, 10 years. That's how it's gonna be. Come on, let's have a microphone, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u94	Arsenius Petrovich, colleagues, colleagues are already joking, and what should be done about the person who sends the text in a drunken state? Well, let's not get ridiculous, well, I get it. But over the course of the year, we have a new year, a new birthday, and other holidays. Well, let's not forget, forget about what a person can do. But he doesn't have to cut his hands off.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u95	Look, comrades, let's not joke now. Attention, colleagues! Again, the language goes, listen carefully to the article’s presentation. The language goes on -- the actions envisaged in Part 1 by a person who twice a year, twice a year, was subject to administrative sequestration. Now, watch out for what. To manage a vehicle in a state of alcohol, drug, or other drinking, or under the influence of drugs. So this is the third time. For the third time, if a person is caught under drug or alcohol or other alcohol abuse, he is given 10 years. That's the first point. The other one. See how it is in other lands. In other lands there is a so - called norm. So they're calculating in terms of radius. If a person has had a cup of wine, he too is not in a state of drunkenness. One day they're counting on it, but it's already a matter for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Health -- the definition of clearly, what does it mean to be "intoxicated"? If a person drank a pint of beer three hours ago, is he drunk or not? Or if a person drank half a cup of wine at lunchtime? Therefore, it is in fact necessary to assign the Cabinet of Ministers to the adoption of this bill, namely, I am already giving it under the transcript: the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Health to define a clear order for setting up the state of drunkenness — once, the state of drugs — two and under the influence of medicines — three, because there will be a large and significant discussion here. Colleagues, I'm asking you to leave the right standard for 10 years. Let's move on. Then the amendment of colleague Pisarenko is absolutely correct – regarding a copy of the protocol on administrative misconduct. A person should receive a copy of the report on the administrative offence because we are violating his constitutional right. He will then have to appeal to the court of general jurisdiction with the appropriate protocol. So, comrades, I am voting for an amendment to this content: a copy of the protocol on the administrative offence is served by a person who is attracted to the administrative responsibility of the person who has made the report on the administrative offence. [[254 Article]] Vote. So if you're caught, you're given protocol, everything is simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u96	They will be. The bribes are a separate story. [[12:28:07]] For 339 Hanna Mikolayevna says right away - and it was necessary to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code for official crimes: increasing the responsibility of employees and officials for bribes. Then he'll do it. Let's move on. Part six of article 258 should be added with the words “once the form is finished. ” This is the language for drafting a protocol on the administrative offence, which is the deadline for the transfer of the protocol. In fact, it is us, as the word “immediately”. Okay? Of course, it has to be voted on. We vote on 258 articles, Pisarenko's amendment. [[12:28:56]] For 340. That's the thing. For -340. Let us now go to the Road Traffic Act. I had a discussion: I would suggest that you make changes to the Road Traffic Act and that you exclude the rule that the Chiefs of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister limit the temporary movement when moving. Well, Lavrinovich didn't support it. And he says he's with the President. Guys, let's move. Article 15: “Basic provisions concerning the admission to control of means of transport”. Comrade Pisarenko proposes to rule out punitive points. It's a big discussional question. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u97	Well, first of all, I'm making reference to the Constitution. We have a proposal under this law that the penalty points and the order of their imposition be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is impossible under the Constitution, because we have to do it in the legislative order. So I'm going to propose to clear this rule right now, and if we want to introduce them later, we're going to make changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u98	What are we doing, dear friends? In principle, penalty points are normal in terms of European practice. Should we leave the penalty points? You mean the Cabinet of Ministers isn't authorized? So it's not his jurisdiction, it's his law? Yes, there will be a vote. Unfortunately, it's a good rule. Okay. Can we put this into a separate law? Why didn't we define him now? Don't we have a fine-forming approach? Doesn't he have the same technique? The scribe's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u99	We had suggestions, we had suggestions earlier on what was being set up by an additional type of liability under the law. Well, I understand that the committee didn't accept them, and so now we have a clear responsibility in the law, as we used to have. So that's what you have to do with the changes to the law, but it's a very small piece of work, so let's not get involved in it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u100	Okay, 'cause we're screwed. Ariev. And the school of Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the penalty points are not really an additional form of responsibility. It's just a scale that leads to some kind of responsibility. So we have to measure a certain number of offences to then apply certain norms. But the very responsibility. Counting a fine does not involve attracting an offender to a certain type of responsibility. So here I think it's a perfectly normal European norm to leave these punitive points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u102	Andrew School and Kravchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u103	Thank you. Well, first of all, my, I fully support the position that it's a European norm, and I don't think anyone can argue with that. The question is, how do you go about counting these fines on this is the most important thing. We can now record that they are being enacted by a separate law. That'll be fine, but we can't commit now either to the Minister of the Interior or to the Cabinet of Ministers or to any other structure to accept our accounting methodology, that's the Supreme Council's jurisdiction. We are now, I propose to introduce into this bill, to report that the penalty points will be imposed by a separate law, and that will be normal. I think it's a normal practice: to design and import. Believe that haste can lead to undesirable results, for the norm itself will not work. There are no opponents here, believe me, in this court of fines, but they have to be introduced not as we always do, but wisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u104	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u105	You're the one who announced me. Cowchenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u106	Mikola Kravchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u107	In real life, this would appear to be the case: for one administrative breach, the driver would be punished with fines and an administrative protocol, or a fine. Therefore, it is not possible to do so. Secondly, we are enacting a very serious law. It will touch tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, each of us, members of our families, and so on. Let us consider this law less emotionally. First of all, it had to be done when we left, and it had to be considered in an article. What do we do now with one amendment, with the other? Then we start to talk about how let's change the other article. Well, you know, it's not gonna be the law, and it's gonna happen to us in December in the elections if we go in that way to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u108	Oleg Zarubinsky and Yuri Serbin
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u109	The replica is only small. I think we have to adopt laws regardless of whether there will be elections in December, or whether once, legislation is legislation. And there was this, you know, methodological error or inaccuracies. It has been said that the method of counting punitive points is an object or function of the Supreme Council, which should be regulated by the Supreme Council. Nothing like that! The Supreme Council, by its law, must prescribe in the law that the penalty points exist, that this is the principle of the number of punitive points. And the method is written, indeed, by other authorities. Including, and, Comrade Pisarenko, it's no big deal how the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will do it. That's why I'm proposing in the bill or in the law to include the fact that there are fines, and I'm proposing to put the method outside the box. And don't even ask questions. It's wrong to ask questions. We're adopting the law and now we're saying that we're going to change it. You have to take it this way so that you don't make any changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u110	Comrades, listen carefully. In principle. Oh, I'm sorry, Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin. Please turn on the Serbian microphone. Yuri Sergiyovich, if you sit in your seat, the microphone will work. And from someone else, there are problems. Where are you now? Turn the mic on again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, we've lost so many people on the roads that I think this law, no matter how much we impose sanctions, will not be too small. That's the first question. The second question is, no one ever does. The Supreme Council will not sign off on these punitive points and sanctions. This should be written by either the Ministry of Internal Affairs or Kabmin. So let's introduce. That's not enough. Remember how many people died on the roads. That's why I'm here to leave the penalty points.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u112	Look, comrades, now pay attention: the formal legal billing is a form of sanction. Look, it's the same thing as paying a certain amount of money for a violation of one or the other. For administrative offences. So this is a sanction. Sanctions, in accordance with the Constitution, are defined only by one act – by law, they cannot be defined by law. Although, on the other hand, I am well aware that Parliament cannot sit and count the points. But we're going to get into a legal colossal, plus another, attention, second point. This rule is an empty space until the Ministry of Internal Affairs system creates an information product for the calculation and counting of these sanctions. Because if there's no common database, this whole thing is useless. They're going to have to spend at least six months forming this information base. What I'm offering. In the final positions of this law, write down: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within a month, to pass the law once. And the second. Create an informational or. the material and technical security for the introduction of the appropriate type of sanctions. Is that all right? Did you hear that? Let us vote in favour of this amendment to the final clauses. The scribe's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u113	Then let's vote first on my exclusion amendment and we'll support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u114	Got it. Again, Arjev, again, Carmazin. Colleagues, we need to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, we now have a system of actually fines that leads to the retesting. These are the coupons that record the offence. But it is not stated by law that code 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. It's not in the law, it's already in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So I think that the total number of points can be set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's the coupons, that's the system. The other thing is, she's not working very hard right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u116	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Let's just calm down and think about it. A foreigner, thousands of foreigners, travels the territory of Ukraine. One of them's got that paper that Ariev was showing right now, right? And I'm telling you, it's not. Because it's a frost, we put our citizens below the aliens. We put our citizens below foreigners. We have it all, they don't have it. And you're going abroad, and you're not going to get that kind of thing. But there is a serious responsibility and everything, because there is an automated system, and everything will be written down, every breach. So I encourage you to listen to the proposal made by Arsenija Petrovich, which is to assign this information system to form, you have to allocate the funds, and so on. And the second. Today we are asked about the responsibility for violating traffic rules, which are also approved by the government, which is a direct violation of the Constitution. That is why this too must be written in transitional positions, Arsenija Petrovich. And that's what we were proposing in the Code of Road Traffic Laws. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u118	Come on. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Ladies and gentlemen, in many European countries, let's say we take the Czech Republic, they have a health system today, and they have administrative fines. And there's an information system that they're joining the European Union today, one certification in the European Community, one information system. And I think we'll get to it. In time, Ukraine will provide its base to take account of violations in Europe if we go to Europe. It's nothing to worry about, I fully support the proposal of the Chief of Staff. There's no need to be afraid of fines. Europe is on its way, and sooner or later we will come to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u119	Fellows, carefully again, if we don't take this question down now, we're going to have a very unworkable norm. Because the IMF is not ready to implement this standard. Talons were in the Soviet Union, and since then the rules of road traffic have not been what they really were. Thus, until an information base is established, including by foreigners who, when leaving Ukraine, are obliged to pay a fine for violating traffic rules, and today, by violating traffic rules, remain completely unpunished because the protocol has sent the Ukrainian television. Absolutely. Therefore, we vote in favour of the amendment of Pisarenko to delete part 10 of article 15. Vote. And then we vote for the final position. [[12:41:23]] For 318 That's the way it is. Now, colleagues, in the “Final Positions” of the law, we write down: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to draft the Law on the Establishment of Punitive Scores and to take steps to ensure that the law is implemented in a material and technical way. Understand? Vote. I said, materially, technically, informationally, it's not good to write, that is, materially, technically. In two months' time. [[12:42:00]] For 307 In two months' time. That's until the vote is over, I told you. Next. About compulsory civil liability insurance, that and so. It's already been thrown out when they formed, right, that's what lobbyism is called. And the execution is also discarded. No, that's what's left of it. Let us read this article carefully: The time frame for voluntary execution is also not set in the event of the discovery of the execution of the implementing instrument adopted by the body authorized by law to deal with the case of an administrative offence. And what will the Ministry of Justice do on its own? Turn on Pisarenko's microphone. Explain this situation to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u120	Arsenius Petrovich, I want to say that this law establishes a special approach to administrative violations committed in transport. We have a law on the enforcement of everything there. What's more, this law, we're setting more effective measures, like we have, for example, that man can't go through a technical examination, is that we're going to have a delay in the vehicle, there's going to be no subtraction from transportation, so we're going to set even more fiscal approaches, I think it's too much. That is, there is no time limit for voluntary fulfilment of the financial obligation.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u121	That makes sense. So be it. The person should have the right term, so in all countries, and in that case, if the term is broken, then the comrades come and ask where you were from 8 to 12. We vote in favour of the amendment of the People’s Deputy Pisarenko regarding the deletion of article 24 of Part Five. Removing the additions to Article 24 of Part Five. [[12:43:55]] For 336 Now, Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Dear Arseny Petrovich! I want to thank all those who supported these important adjustments. It is unfortunate that the faction of "Our Ukraine" today has somehow strayed from work in the session hall and does not want to vote with us on the Road Traffic Act. I want to thank you from all your constituents who, I hope, will no longer vote for you for such support in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u123	According to the faction “Our Ukraine” I report. They put me in charge, I did them all. Colleagues, now the last amendment I ask you to vote on mobile phones. This is Part 6 122, this is a bill that was introduced by the People's Deputy School, and it's registered to 1407. But I propose not to consider the bill, but only as an amendment to the act. Article 122, then. 6 “Contravention of the rules of use of a means of communication by a driver of a means of transport”. So we're leaving the old one. Using vehicles without a technical device to negotiate without a hand, except for drivers of operating vehicles when carrying out an urgent service assignment. This is except for those who work in other services. It's an old book. More specifically, it is suggested that a driver’s fine of between one and five untaxed minimum incomes be imposed. Next. Once again during the year of the infringement foreseen in the first part of this article, for which a person has already been subject to an administrative burden, he is liable to impose a fine of between 5 and 10 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. A little? It's a mess. There's nothing to talk about. No problem. Fellows, offer. Let's take the analogy. Who would want an analogy? Alcohol? From 100 to 120? So this is not exactly the right thing to do, so let's talk about it and we'll make the last decision. Colleagues, 10 more minutes, please, let's do it again. So to complete the article, we complement the Code of Administrative Violations with Article 122, a premium. 6 “Contravention of rules on the use of means of communication by the driver of a means of transport”. There are two choices. I'd be stupid not to use a cell phone. Explain why. Because the more complicated the legal rule, the easier it is to bypass it, the more it is the rule on the surface. So if we want to talk, there's no problem: take it to the right, stop, talk and move on. Because as long as we don't write a clear legal rule, it's going to remain declarative. Pisarenko, Ariev, and Carmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u124	Arsen Petrovich! Well, it's just impossible to stop using. Today we see that, unfortunately, or very well, that the distribution of mobile phones will continue, every driver will have a mobile phone and he will talk It's going to take us every minute to make the movement stop, everybody gets up and talks -- it's impossible. But it's possible to use different devices. You can make a microphone, can't you? You now have all kinds of Blutus compounds, and that's what they do all over the world. If you look at it, they ride with these microphones all over the world. So that's normal and you have to let that happen. But let's get the sanctions fixed. I'm supporting Mr. Lavrinovich as to what it should be like to drive in a state of drunkenness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u125	That's right, by the way. Please, Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u126	I want to support a colleague of Pisarenko’s, because imagine that you just have to stop talking in the car so that the driver can keep him quiet. If he's driving a car and he's really, really got all the Blutus, or the furniture, he's completely capable of talking, absolutely. So this is a European standard, the only thing in Europe that drivers are obliged to wear, or blues, or suits, and do not hold a mobile phone in their hands, so the school colleague’s project is absolutely right in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u127	Yuri Anatolyevich, did you want to? Yuri Carmazin, then Kravchenko, then the Oilman.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich! We're going to install this rule in a voice right now, but there are some things I want to share with you. We say that there will be responsibility only if they are not equipped with special devices, or fittings, and so on. What Is the Basis? We want to put this standard in place so that we don't get distracted. That's what we want to do. She'll still be distracted when we put the furniture on the phone and he'll talk in this outfit. She'll still be distracted. They used to drive, and nothing bad happened. So if we want to end the emergency, and in Kiev this is probably most of these cases, so we have to ban, nothing, call back, there's a number, stop, then call back, it's no big deal. So this rule needs to be used in a more rigid way, and including increasing responsibility in the strictest possible way of using alcohol, there will be some sort of road system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u129	Cowchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u130	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I'd like to ask you to think about another such question, and who will determine whether I spoke on the phone or not? Imagine, there's a policeman who didn't follow the plan that he's going to be given on the day. He stops any car and says you've been on the phone. I'm saying I didn't talk on the phone. Tell me, please, who will determine who's right, who's to blame.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u131	Let me tell you how this is going to be done, I tell you. The desktop phone is one of the only means of communication that has documentation both in the phone itself and in the company that serves you. So even if you're stopped, if you're illegally drafted, at this point in time, the protocol clearly marks the time and hour when you've been stopped, you're going to file an appropriate act and you're going to say you've been deluded and you're going to write a letter to the D.A.'s office to bring this inspector to justice. Colleagues, come on. An oil man.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u132	Let's go back, we have to accept this amendment, this is a reasonable proposal that is supported, that is to be determined by the sanctions. Let's think about it. There is, for example, a misdemeanor such as abandonment of a crash site, punishable from 15 to 18 untaxed minimums, well, a mobile phone conversation can't be more socially dangerous than leaving a lot of traffic. So I propose to impose the same penalty from 15 to 18 non-taxable minimum fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u133	Colleagues, come on, there's an offer to move on to formation. Well, let's do it again. Attention! Thus, it was suggested that the school, 122, should be supplemented by article 122, which reads as follows: A violation of the rules of use by the driver of a vehicle. Everybody, listen up! Using a means of communication that is not equipped with a technical device that allows the driver to negotiate without the use of his hands. Now I'm deciphering what's written. What, he'll say: “And I have the equipment, and what I used around my ear is not a responsibility.” So that's the wrong phrase. Hence, it is suggested that the use of a driver in a vehicle without a technical device that allows negotiations to continue without the use of hands, with the exception of drivers of operating vehicles and taxis, we must leave a taxi, no taxi leaving them, no taxi, he does not offer them, they do not have these when they perform their duties. Now, pay attention! He's pulling a driver's fine, you're offering 15 to 18 for the first time? Colleagues, 15 to 18 or not? How much is in the money, count it. Where? Now, colleagues, a minute of technical recess, I want to see what's included here. Hanna Mikolayevna, half a second? Now I'm going to go over the text here, and I'm going to give you my word. Comrades, well, please, well, that's not the norm. Let's make a decision. The first time is from 15 to 18, the second time, Alexander Volodymyrovich, how many times did you propose? Well, if the second time is 150 to 200, the first time is from 50, then you have to reduce. Let's say 30 to 50, 50 to 80. Where? Where's the norm? And it's not here. So that's what I'm suggesting. There are now attempts to find this rule in this bill, and we will now vote for it. If she is, she'll come down. If she's not here, then we're putting her to the vote now. Colleagues, dot. Puts the vote to 122 pm. 6 Infringement of safety rules, violation of regulations on the use of means of communication by drivers. Using a driver when driving a vehicle as a means of communication, well, what do you want? What do you want? Martinyuk. Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u134	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! We are now showing the world and how we do not have to write laws. What are we doing with you? Now we want to write the punishment of humans in a shoelace that is incomparable. We don't see what punishment he's going to suffer for the more severe punishment, we just want to write a rule from the ceiling. When was it seen that such a law was adopted?Oh, my God! The committee is not ready to adopt the law. Although we asked the committee to prepare the law last Friday. He came out, gave one chart. You, Arsenius Petrovich, please listen to Sweden, Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u135	Adam Ivanovich, come on, I can hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u136	Let the Swede give it a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u137	I also refer to Sweden as a serious approach to the drafting of the bill. We got the table one, we voted or we didn't vote -- no comparison. We don't have this table on our hands. Vote. You're taking the school's law out of your voice right now -- fourth, fifth, tenth, total disagreement. We'll make a point. We'll make chickens laugh. I suggest we move this bill to the third reading. Let all of these sanctions be checked again by the committee to make it even, because now we're going to come up with 15, 20 or 100 tax dollars, and they're going to laugh at us. I propose a third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u138	Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, no one will laugh at us. Arseny Petrovich, Arseny Petrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u140	I can hear you talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u141	We already have this rule, set, let's not change it, this is part two, part two, article 122. There we clearly anticipate this responsibility for the use of means of communication. The 122nd part of the second part: the driver's use of means of communication while moving, and there's a sanction -- from 25 to 30 non-taxable minimums. We already have this. Then let's move on to the vote as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u142	Colleagues, now I propose to finish the discussion and stop at the next. It's not surgical here, it's going to be a completely sterile adoption of the law. And you know perfectly well what was behind this law, how many lobbyist things were behind this bill. Put it on the third reading now -- they'll accept it in the new era. We had a normal substantive discussion entirely throughout the law. If someone isn't there, make an amendment, we'll vote. Now for 122. I'm taking my license down to 122 so there's no discussion here. Open a comparison table and enter it into a comparison table. You don't want to lift the sanctions, there's 25 to 30 sanctions left. Everything in the law is stipulated. Please, Olinick, Filipenko and Sulkovsky, and we're closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u143	Colleagues, we really need to finish our consideration of the matter. It's a matter of fines. Arsenius Petrovich, what I was doing. This is suggested: if it does not “substantially impede” and if it “stops traffic”. This excludes the subjectivity altogether. And I don't think there's going to be any objection to that in the committee or in the colleagues. Once again: “when the deployment of a delayed means of transport stops traffic.” Only in these cases may there be a possibility of forced evacuation of the vehicle.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u144	Colleagues, I suggest you finish the discussion. So, look. I'm giving you two options for events. Well, Sulkovski will give you your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u145	Thank you. Arsenius Petrovich, I support Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. That we're going to do great damage by this vote right now. We want to do the punishment in some way, but it's not going to be true. This is how we went on vacation: working here, in the hall, how voting mechanism to do, technology. To this day. The money is spent, and there's practically no result. That's how we do cell phones. What else is there in the cool cars, and what is there to do with these questions, problems, and so forth? So I'm making an offer. Arsenius Petrovich, it is imperative that this law be passed solely without this question, for otherwise it will be a great pity, and you will remember my word. You can't vote him today, you can't vote him, it's raw, it's not true. People will laugh at us for doing this. We need to take this matter seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u146	Colleagues, to finish the discussion, here the MPs are insulted that I do not give the word, MP Smithyuch, deputy prokopchuk and deputy school. And a dot, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u147	Arsenius Petrovich, I'm not offended that they don't give a word. There's an order for the bill to be considered. If we follow the Rules of Procedure in the second reading, please support it. That's the first question. The second question is about the amendments that sound out of the voice. I am firmly opposed to having the MPs amend the bill by a vote because they have a significant impact on the law, and we cannot accept a single amendment from the voice, the more we can compare it to an active text. So I have an offer, I support Adam Ivanovich to send this law for further consideration to the third reading. And then remove these differences so that it doesn't come out of the voice. And the question is not, we're not, we're all here to adopt this law, but not in such a rhythm and not in such chaos. So I have a request: to put the vote, to send the law to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u148	The digger of a colleague and Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u149	Yuri Prokopchuk, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, you know, that's what we've found today, in fact, understanding the amendments and now trying to send our colleagues back to third reading. So take statistics as to how many people have died on the road just this Sunday. Do you understand? And when a single norm becomes a reason not to adopt the law as a whole. And I want to remind those who say the committee didn't work. The committee had just worked and worked, as they say, quite well that these amendments had not become so many. That's why there's an offer: After all, today people are going to adopt this law in general. And you don't have to speculate to someone like fashion, election, not election, and there's a cell phone that's 2,000 miles away that's how it's done. I want to say that the law must be adopted and the vote must be voted on, and I urge everyone to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u150	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u151	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I want to remind you, first of all, of the changes in the voice. I think that over a long period of time, each member of the Supreme Council remembers that virtually all the fundamental laws that did not have consensus in the session hall were regulated by these voting amendments. And we have some of the best laws that were taken into account in such a way that, in fact, it was found consensus in the hall literally and in the voice as well. So when I go back to the situation where they're talking about a mobile phone, it's not that everything is forbidden to use during traffic, it's just that there's a rule that can be brought to bear the responsibility of a person who's on a mobile phone when they're driving. In order to communicate, there is a special voice connection when a person does not touch the pipe or so on. I mean, there's an opportunity to make important, important calls, but no harm to road traffic. So I think we need to now support this rule, vote and vote on the law as a whole, not what third reading. And so did the voice correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u152	Dear friends, now pay attention. So, first of all, I definitely don't support the position of individual people's deputies that something's wrong here. I want to tell you that this is how laws should be passed in Parliament when every amendment is discussed, when everything is given out, when there is discussion, not when someone is held. For the herd there! Don't scream! Don't scream! The second thing about the adoption of the law, I understand what they're going to do is they're going to drag him away because the insurance company's gone because the commercial's gone. Well, it's white sutures, it hasn't been broken yet. Comrades, if you're for money, it's for the other side, and if it's for people's safety, I'll put it to a second reading vote. No, let's leave it that way. I'll tell you what we'll do. The second reading in general is normal, because if you stop, there will be another discussion. Let's just leave it the way it was. Please. So, colleagues, pay attention! I look forward to the adoption of this bill in the second reading and in general to the mandate of the Chief Legal Authority to carry out technical and legal work. In that case, if, God forbid, something has been forgotten, let's make a difference according to the 131st Rules. We vote because this law will otherwise never be passed. Second reading in the entire bill, 1061-5. [[13:05:25]] For 386 Hello. Colleagues, we're born! Break. Let's see the factions. Break until 13.35. The word Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, our faction has an offer, perhaps it will support the hall to work if we are at a pace. We have very important laws, and time is not much. Let's work. Now let's continue the session without interruption and work until the end. I think we'll have coffee in working mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u154	Not all comrades support it. Not all comrades. Since they're not driving, they decided to take a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u155	Comrades, we are continuing our meeting this morning. 0927. And in the “Regions” they now say a polytrade will. 0927. Please, Valery Mikhailovich. Valery Mikhailovich, please, very briefly. There are proposals that have been taken into account, that have not been taken into account. One minute. Inform once again about the essence of the law, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u156	I want to say that this law was adopted on the first reading of April 13, 2007. But since there was a break in the work of the Supreme Council, we considered him on the committee a little later. The main point of the law is that the concept of medical-psychological rehabilitation, which creates order, where people go through, and children in particular, medical-psychological rehabilitation after they've been in extraordinary situations, including in road accidents where either their parents have died or they've been injured. On January 16, 2008, the committee reviewed the second reading of the bill, 17 amendments were received, 16 are fully accounted for, and one is partly mine. There are no comments from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In this regard, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u157	Colleagues, there is no amendment that is not included. There is a partial correction of the reporter himself. There is no objection to putting to the vote in the second reading and in general? You don't? Dear colleagues, there is 0927 in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[13:41:01]] To 238. Decision taken. Valery Mikhailovich, next bill 0939.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u158	For your second reading, you have introduced a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection Legal Principles, which was submitted by a group of Ukrainian national deputies. The bill was adopted on the first reading on April 19, 2007. I want to point out to you in essence the bill that has been running in Ukraine for decades now, two state inspections are the State Fire Control Inspectorate and the State Civil Protection Inspectorate. The bill specifies the delimitation of their functions, and I would like to remind you that there are some 15,000 potentially dangerous objects in Ukraine to which the State Civil Protection Inspectorate today is virtually unable to apply certain measures to prevent emergencies without this law. The bill was also considered at a committee meeting. There were seven proposals that were fully considered. The chief legal authority of the Supreme Council apparatus called for a bill without notice. In this regard, the committee requests that this law be adopted in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u159	I have a question for Bogdan Ivanovich Kostinyuk. Bogdan Ivanovich, turn on the microphone. The position of the government on the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u160	The Cabinet of Ministers supports the proposed bill for adoption in second reading and in general. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank Valery Mikhailovich Calchenk and the entire committee for the quality of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u162	Colleagues, and this will not lead to the creation of another body that, in other words, will perform various functions? Valerius Mikhailovich, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u163	This body has been in operation since 1996, but its authority has not been issued. And now this law just stresses what needs to be done so that it can work within the legal framework and within the framework of the laws in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u164	Colleagues, there is an entirely new proposal for your consideration to vote in second reading and in general Bill No. 0939. Is there no objection? Please vote. [[13:44:00]] For 282 I don't see Ivanovich the Ripper in the workplace. But I also don't see the decision of the 3087 bill committee. So there's going to be a committee decision, and then we'll look at it. Let's move on. Ratification 0055, 0067, 0094. I would like to vote in favour of the short-term consideration of these bills. 0055, 0067 and 0094 please vote. [[13:44:40]] For 256 Changes to the budget will only be made in the event of a decision by the Budget Committee. The budget committee's decision is not yet available. Because two hours ago, I got a new bill that I signed up for the committee. One of the four bills was made, and I don't know the fate of the bill. As I was informed, a meeting of the Budget Committee is now under way. Katerina Alexandrovna Fomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u165	Dear National Deputies! The Honorable Presidium! Today you note the draft Act on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It's about a loan that Illichian seaport should get. It is 28 million euros, which should be given a port for the reconstruction of the seventh, eighth, ninth docks and for the purchase of overloading equipment. This is a very important step for us, for the maritime sector. This is very important because the port of Illich is one of the three largest ports in our country. And it's this loan that will make it possible to significantly increase its overloading functions. I want to give you that number. This loan, along with the cost involved, the cost of the port, which is 38 million euros, will allow 60 percent per year to increase container overcrowding. I want to say that this bill is supported by all ministries, it's supported by three committees of profile, and we're very grateful to the people's deputies for it. We would like to ask you to support this bill. The point is that these three docks, which will be reconstructed, are already morally and physically worn out. The thing is, they were built in the '60s. And you realize that today we just don't have the ability to count for any increase in overload volume. We're addressing the national MPs, please, let's back up. The thing is, this loan is very, very cheap. The figures say for themselves: 28 million euros we get from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 15 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u166	It's not 28, it's 26. Well, well. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u167	Thank you. 26.7 million euros. It's for 15 years. We're four years old, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development gives us a debt period for which we won't pay off the main body of credit. And I want to say that we don't have a chance to get any of those loans today, not from the World Bank, not even from any commercial bank. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to support this bill and allow us to engage this 28 million-euro loan to our Illjit seaport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u168	Thank you. Taras Vjačeslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u169	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting discussed the draft law on the ratification of the loan agreement, it was supported, we looked at the same materials that came from other committees, this is the Committee on Finance and Banking, these are the materials from the Transport Committee and the materials from the Committee on Budgets. The committees noted support the ratification of the agreement. The Committee on Budget Affairs notes that it will have a direct impact on the income part, but there is also a conclusion by the Ministry of Finance that, in the event that a direct act of ratification is not adopted, it will have a negative impact on the budget and there will also be problems. The cost of the guarantee, the state guarantee of the loan, is already noted by the Ministry of Finance in the explanatory note marked and noted in the State Budget Act. Therefore, the Committee on Foreign Affairs supports the ratification of the bill and asks that it be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u170	You don't have any wishes? Colleagues, if there is no wish to register, I propose to vote in favour of granting consent to be bound by an international treaty through the ratification of an agreement concluded between Ukraine and the EBRD by the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement. [[No. 0055]] Please vote. It is essential that this money be given in today’s global financial crisis. [[13:50:10]] For 302 Decision taken. 0067, Volodymyr Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u171	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Finance is presenting for consideration by the Supreme Council a draft law on the ratification of the loan agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The agreement was signed by the finance minister in Kiev on March 25, 2008. Work began on this project on December 27, 2006. On October 17, 2007, the government adopted orders to approve a strategy for the modernization of state finances, i.e., in principle, this is already, let's say, a loan to support those government decisions that have been taken by several governments, one can say. The main result of the project should be the integration of the core functions of the public finance management system into the single centralised information and analysis system for the management of state finances in Minsk, the State Department and the Head of the CFR. The outside users of this system should be: State Tax Administration, State Customs. The Ministry of Economics, Nazbank, the Supreme Council are the directors of the budget of the various levels. If you sum it up, it's a system that provides greater transparency in the use of public finances and a corresponding reduction in the possibility of some hidden shadow tools. This loan is given for $50.50 million, $15 million is co-financing from the Ukrainian side, and in the Ukrainian law on the Ukraine Draft State Budget 2009 is provided for in the context of this Ukrainian part. Well, that's it, in principle. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u172	Taras Vjačeslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u173	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered Project 0067 on the ratification of the Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We considered it completely off the record, and the evidence is that the decision was taken only at the second meeting of the committee on the subject. For the first time, let's set aside the consideration for getting additional materials. And in the second review, we got enough material. Most members of the committee, once again, not all of them, but most supported the ratification decision. That was after we did. answers to questions about the mechanism for the implementation of these funds and about the ultimate direct objective to which they are to go. As a result, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided by a majority on ratification, the Committee on Finance and Banking supported the adoption of the decision, the Committee on Budget Affairs reported that the agreement had an impact on the income and expenditure of the budget, but those funds were provided for in the State budget of Ukraine for the current year. In this regard, there is a decision that I am bringing to you by the Committee in foreign matters to support the prescribed law on ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u174	Two, two, against, is there a wish? Vote? I've been thinking about voting. Vote, yes, comrades, what do you think? Okay. 0067 on acceptance as a whole. [[13:54:11]] For 278 Decision taken. 0094, Mazurczak Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u175	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Your view is presented by Law 0094 on the ratification of the loan agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The purpose of the treaty’s ratification is to assist utilities in ensuring their stable activities to provide quality utilities and to improve the environmental situation for the population of Ukraine. The project is aimed at supporting the most up-to-date investment projects in water supply, water management and waste management. The project envisions lending from the Bank of Reconstruction and Development through 100% lending, through a core and open component. Total $140 million. For the main component, we already have winners to finance, that's the size, the total size of 59 million and 530 thousand, that's the rehabilitation, the modernization of the technology in the water supply, the water supply of the city of Odessa. This is a subproject of solid waste management in the city of Odessa for 7 million 14 and 140 thousand. This is the Chernigs, the rehabilitation project, the modernization of technology in water supply, plumbing. This is Ivano-Franksky, rehabilitating and modernizing water supply systems. There's also an open component of 78 million and 158 million. One hundred and twenty thousand, which provides for a number of small energy-saving investment projects in the housing and utilities sector. The competition has been announced, and it can be attended by all cities. We expect that at least 30 cities will still be able to join this loan -- 20 years under 4.01 percent. We believe that it will provide, indeed, serious assistance to the housing and utilities of Ukraine. I ask the MPs to support this project and vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u176	Alexander Volodymyrovich, if you'll excuse me. So we have three cities: Odessa, Chernigu, Ivano-Frankowski, where procedures are ready to be implemented to implement the project, and we announce the competition and implement another part, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u177	[[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u178	Please, have a seat. Taras Vjačeslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u179	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues are the national deputies of Ukraine! The question was similarly discussed at the Committee’s previous meeting in foreign affairs, and so was a very detailed study. All questions were left for the purpose and selection of objects directly, because the treaty provides for a two-part distribution: the first part is fixed, which defines the three cities where the procedures are fully prepared, where the guarantees for the return are determined, and there is absolute confidence for this. Others go to the right competition. We also asked a number of questions about how transparent a competitive procedure is. We have no reason, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to doubt that the procedure will be sufficiently transparent. The State that acts as a guarantor will not have the problem of repaying credit because they are sufficiently liquid in the projects. And in this case, we can say that it's in the field of energy conservation that projects, they provide for really normal financial resources, then release them in local budgets, so that the repayment can be made by the appropriate entities that will borrow them. Similarly, a positive decision was made by the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy. He offered to clearly support the project. I want to add the same thing to myself, it's unlike previous contracts, it's still a structure that in the internal market, the more the financial market, under similar interest, it's just physically impossible to find financial resources. Among the members of the committee, the decision was absolutely unanimous. And we ask you to support this ratification. It takes away a number of problems. We know very well what's going on in this area. Thank you for your attention. I'd like you to support me as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u180	Comrades, no objection to voting? Thank you. The bill 0094 is on adoption as a basis and as a whole the ratification of the loan agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Vote. [[13:59:21]] For 309 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we had the last bill in order of the day -- this is the Law on Amendments to Ukraine's State Budget Act. There was an increase in support of the APC. Mikola Ivanovich. Turn on the microphone of Mikoli Ivanovich from the spot. Tell me: Is there a committee decision, or do you consider it necessary to consider tomorrow? Turn it on from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u181	The well-respected Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished people's deputies, has been drafted into the committee. Decision taken: The Rapporteur on the bill combining Ryobik Sergey Nikolaevich and, of course, the co-report of the budget committee. The materials will be printed and will be in the hall in a minute or two.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u182	Colleagues, see if the materials are delivered? Is it? There are materials, aren't there? Come on, Rabbit, Sulkowski, while the materials come in. And we'll look at it. Sign up then. Three minutes. Sidekick.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u183	Sidekick, Sumstina, Timoshenko Street. I give you my word, Lyushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u184	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u185	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Draft Law 3087-1, amending the State budget, is distributed to all Ukrainian national deputies. [[on increasing the financing of agri-industrial expenditure]] An hour ago, we held a meeting of the Committee of Budgets, decided to support it as a basis and as a whole. There is an author, one of the authors of the bill in the hall, Mr. Ribuk, who is ready to report. And the Supreme Council's apparatus is now multiplying the committee's application. There is a request for the head of the Supreme Council, since it is an additional billions of expenses to support the agro-industry complex, not to postpone the issue for tomorrow, but to consider it today so that the peasants will receive their money tomorrow. So continue the request.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u186	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was handed out only half an hour ago. To this day, there have been two bills under the edition of Sigal, edited by the Jury. And it's as if this law has put all that into it. I'm sorry about those two bills. There's nothing like it. Because those bills offered support to farmers in their 50s, 70s in one bill, and 60 million in the other. There is no support for farmers in this bill, that is, there is a division between lobbyist groups. So let's postpone until tomorrow, we'll adopt this bill, we'll really give the village a chance to live and act. And it's just, you know, substitution, it's fraud, or I can't appreciate this process, they don't. And at this point, we don't have the committee's conclusions, it's saying again that everything is going over the sleeve. Like, you know, the cartels are pulling a map out of the cuff, and they're getting us this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u188	Shershun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u189	I'd like to give Vaszczuk to Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u190	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill is the product of a reconciliation of the position of all factions. You remember that the first was our initiative. We believe today that it looked much better than today's bill because it took into account the more serious support of the agrarian complex and the support of farmers and so on. This led to an understanding of such a plan today. It is, and there is no need to postpone it, it should be considered, as only this option can be supported by a hall. We can also further consider this offer offered by John the Rabbit, which deserves support.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u191	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform those national MPs who believe that these bills, and the last bill, appeared five or ten minutes ago. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that on the Conciliation Council, on the board of directors of factions, the idea of amending the budget in part of the APC's support is being discussed for the third week. In fact, three weeks in agreement between MinAPK, Minfin and the drafters of the drafts, Catherine Vaschuk, Eugene Sigal, Sergey Ribuk, are under discussion. Well, don't we know that and we're talking about this bill coming out of nowhere? So I think it's absolutely fair and right, if all the experts in the various factions who care about the village and the budget committee have decided, we need to consider it immediately. If any warning is to make changes and vote in the session room, this bill is submitted by the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u193	Colleagues, first of all, with regard to the Committee on Budgets, I understand that you have introduced a harmonized bill. One. Right? That's right. Second, regarding the deadline for consideration of the bill. We have 10 minutes left. At the faction leaders’ meeting, we decided to consider it and to take it up on our first reading. Right? That's right. Let's take a short procedure in 10 minutes, we'll take the first reading, send it to the budgeters again, the budget guys will take it to our second reading, and we'll have a clear peace of mind. Yeah? Yes. Colleagues, let's move on to the procedure. The head has the right to continue his work for up to 15 minutes. Are you going to talk or are we going to vote, tell me? Okay. Then Lazko and Sulkowski will have two more words.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u194	Arsenija Petrovich, the Committee on Budgets has already taken a decision, and the head of the Committee on Budgets, Dracz Mikola Ivanovic, is authorized to speak with this decision that we are voting on the bill as a whole. It's already a product that is consistent between all factions. Moreover, about what Mr. Hare was saying. We and the co-authors of the law have discussed this issue and we don't deny it to include it, and Minfin confirms that an additional 50 million dollars are being paid to farmers. That's the question that Mr. Rabbit raised. And we are proposing that this law be passed as a whole. He agrees between all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u195	Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u196	Please hand over Sergio Mikolaiovich to Ribuku. This is going to be a proposal weighted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u197	Sergey Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u198	Thank you. Rybuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I fully agree with colleagues Lášk, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, Mikola Tomenka, that we have discussed for three weeks, many hours each day and even a working group meeting in the government without exception an article and an offer. And this document that he just laid down, it's not ten minutes, it's three weeks. But we went by rejecting all political ambitions there or what to call them. But for this law to work, because today, September, the month is the most current month for a peasant. And it's so calculated that really these costs are going to be given to the peasant, and we're going to balance the grain market. So I respectfully ask, come on, and on the committee I reported, adopted in the final edition as a complete law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u199	Yes. Colleagues, first of all, regarding the bill. I just got a decision from the committee and this bill itself. Let us vote in favour of closing Parliament's work by the time the bill is voted on. I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u200	Before the issue is resolved. [[14:08:50]] For 226
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u201	For 226. Decision taken. Colleagues, decision taken. Now the second one. I'm the only thing I want to tell you is that there are a few questions, colleagues. One billion 700 million -- making decisions in 15 minutes. I understand that the committee has been looking at this for a long time. That can't happen with government finances, people! I'm cold from this approach. A billion 700! And we make decisions quietly, quickly in five or ten minutes. If you think it's normal, you won't convince me it's normal. I think the Ministry of Finance has a cold sweat too. You want to vote, vote. Come on, let's go through with it. Mikola Ivanovich. Who do we have? Who did the committee appoint as a reporter? I don't have any information as defined by the reporter. It is written that the head of the Board of Rippers. Come on, Sergei Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u202	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Once again, I want to tell you that 99 percent of the figures that are proposed for changes in the budget positions for the APC are agreed with and with the Cabinet of Ministers and virtually every faction, including now on the budget committee. And that's why we, as a faction of the Party of Regions that is today and that's why, in opposition, we didn't suggest that three, four, five billion, and there's nothing to do with the Cabinet of Ministers looking for an agrarian fund. We approached with balance, objectivity, and agreed to a number of compromises. What one billion is for the purchase of grain is for the inclusion of the state in the grain market. Why not 2 billion, not 3? Because today’s latest data is that the agrarian fund has already purchased 845 million grains. And it also has a previous parliament and government of a billion two hundred and fifty million from the core and special funds article and a billion six hundred twenty - three - special funds, that is, 800,000 tons. The other one. If we're giving away a billion, but we're writing that not only for direct sales of grain, but under the system of mortgage purchases, it means that by saving 20 percent of the grain, the cost, we can buy 250 million more of that grain. And one more thing. A system of mortgage purchases means that a farmer puts grain into storage through an agrarian fund, receives 80 percent of today’s costs, sows, caresses, settles, and works with this money. But this grain remains him, the peasant. And when the time comes for this grain to be realized, he gives a team to a fund that can sell my grain at the price that was formed. And one more thing. We have a very good grain and grain market law. And there is a system of double testimonies. And that means, and the banking system today is ready that the farmer, by putting this grain in storage, is already getting the money for it, but he can still take the credit from the state. So this is where we're going to win three times. What's more, I want to point out that this billion is not the direct cost to a peasant, the peasants won't get it tomorrow, it's the states from one of their pockets that translate into another form of a government grain fund. And so it removes the grain surplus and gives the farmer the opportunity to raise the same price, sell the grain, and be a full participant in the market. This is, I'm sorry for the detail, but it's very important. All the other positions, you see them in front of you. For example, the cost of loans was 500 million, they were 250 million, because in three weeks, Arsenija Petrovich, the Ministry of Agriculture needed no more than 250 million dollars to be paid. The same is true of the loss of agricultural technology. We're still a few thousand units of tractors and other power tools for 30 percent of the cost to the farmer and it's for the small-scale manufacturer, because large-scale hardware buys us technology, you know, abroad and so on. This is about $235 million in loans, $400 million in partial compensation, and borrowing, I said, 250 million. And another position that will interest you. The Agrarian Policy Ministry system has about 2.5 million hectares of forests — former cologne forests that have moved to the states and to the Ministry, and 8 million have a State Forestry Committee. So these forests today and yesterday, they're seven times less funded and they're in a very difficult way, not in a financial sense, but generally in an economic sense. And they're state forests, and they're state forests. By adding these small funds, we are equalizing the management conditions of all state - owned entities in two systems. And as for the State Committee, and the forest management of the Minagropolitics system, given that 400,000 hectares are accounted for, and cut out half of them, these are forests, forests, forests, and all 2.5 million, these are small-scale forests around lakes, rivers, fleas, hills and so on, which the state needs to take care of, and when we have the land conservation law, take the next step, give order to this farm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u203	Question, please. Let's sign up for a question at Rizuk. Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u204	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I understand that today we are not going to be very supportive of this agrarian sector, because today we all have to understand that in the agrarian sector, the private sector itself is working, and we are actually going to support the private sector, and we need to support the agricultural sector itself. I'd like to talk to the reporter about the woods here. About forests belonging to former collective agricultural enterprises. I would like to draw Ukraine's attention today to the fact that these forests are in Agrolis, but they are being destroyed. Today, when they're outgunned, they're drunk, there's no processing in place, and there's nowhere to buy a simple man's stallion. There's hardly anything going on, although there is a report on it. So by giving this, we need to know and control, and in particular to think something to transfer, perhaps even to the state property of the “Dervelis” precisely these forests and forests.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u205	I sincerely thank you for not asking as many questions as caring. On the basis of these considerations, we have proposed, and the manner in which these funds are used is approved by Minfin, Mineconomy, the Ministry, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. But it's 17 there with millions of copies, that's the kind of money that's neither hot nor cold, that doesn't even make it possible to keep at the expense of a forester who can control at least that can make the forest look good. And when we do that, we're going to put it on a level playing field, and then there's going to be a question about uniting forests into one farm, and that's how we get things in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u206	Danilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u207	Sergei Mikolaiovich, Vladimir Danilenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. This is a question that I have spent my entire life in agriculture, but today I am concerned about our approach to the situation. We seem to support agriculture, but the situation is as follows. After all, big companies took corporate rights in the village and they run financial flows, commodity flows today. We give these same companies twenty percent of the VAT that we leave as vendors, you know, they're exporters, they're still getting back, yes, the VAT returns forty percent, but to the farmer that we care about so much, it doesn't come back at all. What's the answer? We need to change some approach, either at wage level, or in the social sphere, we need to eliminate these maybe twenty percent of VAT, or maybe those who are doing a different approach in this area, but we need to change the approach theory.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u208	I fully agree with you that this funding system, which we are now voting on to continue until the end of the year, because we can't do anything else, is out of date. And it mostly finances someone who can and should not be financed by the state. I'm very grateful that they passed the agricultural census law yesterday, because it's all informational, and this information base is based on both projects and economic development programs, and we have a 1993 census, which is when agricultural production was planned, when we were colosophies and so on. And then agriculture, which is now mostly given by 85 percent of the product, was given 15 percent of the product, now it's 85 percent, and we're doing it all at once. So if we do this analysis, study the situation, then change all these programs for the ninth year so that the small - product farmer gets and can buy a tractor for long - term loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u209	Vladimir Viezowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u210	Vladimir Vizewski, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Please pass the word to my colleague John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u211	Sergei Mikolaiovich, in your bill we saw support for 70 million farm loans, in Mr. Sigal's project we saw 50 percent, and when you talk about the need to support a small-scale producer, I totally agree with you, but I can't agree that these 70 are gone today, and that 50 million are gone. If you please and we include this position under code 2801460 then it's clear that we have to vote both in the first reading and in the whole, because today we have to save the village and these costs will be very necessary. But let's face it, let's face it, we need to save the whole village, not just certain groups. So I'm asking you to add this 50 million that were in the bill, and this is not a proposal from the vote, to add to this bill and to vote on it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u212	I, Ivan Aleksandrovitch, and please, and thank you, and the National Deputies, because that bill that was submitted to us and the faction of the Jury and Ribuk Region Party were also farmed there, and that's what we took into account the proposals of the Farmers' Association of Ivan Tomic. And at the last minute, where was I supposed to go to compromise to finally consider and allocate the basic funds? And now that this understanding of MPs, please, I fully and fully support and generally say that in 2009, we have to build a budget policy so that small-scale production gets 95 percent of all budget revenues.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u213	Sergei Mikolaiovich, I have a question for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u214	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u215	The first is about the order in which the funds are used. It states that this order agrees with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. Do you know that the President of Ukraine was given several acts of legislation that contained a similar norm in relation to the fact that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no right to agree on any order and no one, because in the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Supreme Council can agree on anything, who is it Committee on Budget Issues to agree on the order of allocation of money, the responsibility for which lies solely on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u216	Arseny Petrovich, that was a question to me. Let me answer that. I've just been at a budget committee meeting and I've been feeling a lot of concern about every member of the committee that these funds can be used irrationally and spill between my fingers. If we cannot write it down as the President has promised, we should simply write “recommend to the Ministry of Finance and Agrarian Policy to agree on the manner in which funds are used”, or to inform them about order. Let him give it to us, and that'll be all. That's not gonna happen. Keep it under control, don't control that kind of information. I think that the ministries at this level of solidarity are not obliged. To recommend, they'll do it. And we're going to tell them that there are no traps so that we don't suspect each other in anything dishonest.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u217	Mr. Oleg, let the chairman hold a meeting. You said the word "Arseny Petrovich" seven times. I'm not deaf. Sergei Mikolaiovich, second question. Please tell me we're doing this. We now have 3.6 billion in the agrarian fund. Who can give me statistics, first of all, how much of these 3.7 billion is used, first of all. The other one. What kind of mortgage prices do we have? And the third. Where did the figure of 3.7 billion come from? So what's 5.7 or not 25? So what's 3.7? Now I'm just going to show you the numbers by the crop and you're going to tell me that whatever you don't give is not going to be enough. Where did the figure of 3.6 billion come from? Where is the economic account? It's not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u218	Arsenius Petrovich, I am answering this question, which of these 3 and how many did you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u219	3,652.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u220	A billion six hundred and twenty-three is a special fund, based on land privatization, thanks to the privatization of others, i.e. it is incomplete, they are not. This is, if you count on it, it's written down. And then we'll ask why we didn't buy it. I won't. There are a billion and two hundred and fifty. They have purchased 840 tons of grains, almost 800,000 tons of grains already in state plots, and they have spent 845 million. Last day and today, 83 million. There's 400 million left to go to work. We're giving you another billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u221	And you think this billion will save the market?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u222	I think that if we put in, and we're offering a system of wager prices, that's a small-scale producer -- a peasant, a farmer with a fund -- who's going to form not just a receipt, but a composite testimony for which the state is responsible, and they're going to put that grain in his chamber, and it's left with grain, and he's going to get 80 percent of the money, he's going to sow, he's going to plow, he's going to do his business, and then he's going to sell when the price is better. And what's the price today, I can't answer because it's floating. This is one of the positions that we disagreed with in general with the good, beautiful proposals of the Lithuanian Block, which we don't need to fix, let's say 1500, because today 1500, we know how government officials feel about it. They won't let you sell any more, they'll say, "Come on, 1500, hook up." So we can't fix the price, make the minimum, the maximum, let's make the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u223	Sergey Mikolaiovich, your honor, thank you very much. I'll tell you one thing, your words and your words to God in what has been said.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u224	Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u225	To get this money to a peasant, they were used for a purpose so that they would not be stretched out along the way. Your words and your words to God. Please sit Sergey Mikolayovich. Oleg Lazko wants to comment. Okay, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u226	Arsenius Petrovich, Oleg Lazko doesn't want to comment, but I want to say that the Senate is American, because you speak English from the parliamentary rostrum, the Senate of America and its committees have more rights of control than our Supreme Council. That's why we wrote that according to the budget committee, the order of use of the agrarian fund is exactly what you're talking about, so it can reach people rather than settle in the pockets of someone who's a smuggler, an oligarch who's become billionaires in the fight against poverty in the village. Also, farmers. I'd like to make a point. Budget Program code 2801460: Appointment of expenditure on loans to farmers. That's 50 million dollars. It's for protocol. Because farms need as much support as other forms of farming. And we're proposing again.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u227	I care less about both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. Congress. I mean, frankly, I'm less interested in what they're going through. One question I'm curious about is the legality and constitutionality of decisions taken. I'm telling you, what you're saying is a form of parliamentary control. But the form of parliamentary control is not the agreement of the Cabinet of Ministers. You're making quasi-form. If you think Parliament is in control of the reconciliation of acts, the government has to multiply by zero, let them sit here and we'll make joint decisions with them. Well, every one of us has the authority, we don't have the right to enter the Cabinet of Ministers. It's a violation of the Constitution. We gave him the budget money -- let him rub his head and his shoulders. He has full responsibility. Then comes the KLA, everyone else. And we, in the form of parliamentary control, have the right to call here the Prime Minister, the Minister of Profiles, to express distrust, to enact the law. But there's no agreement under the committee table. I understand why you're doing this. This was done five years ago so that everyone would have an impact on this money. Isn't that how it's done? No, yeah, something's changed! This is to keep the government in one place: “Here we have our own pair of farms, we have to give them more.” Well, that's not how it's done, that's not how it's done. Well, let's not make fools of ourselves. Let's who. Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u228	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on 24 September 2008 considered a bill amending the 2008 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine and amending certain Ukrainian legislation on support for the APC. The bill is designed to expand the capacity of the Agrarian Fund to increase the volume of bread purchases to the State Reserve, which guarantees the price stability and food security of the state. The purchase of grain by the state at higher prices will increase substantially to stimulate the increase in the price of grain purchased by farmers. Full-scale provision of partial compensation for the interest rate on the current year's credits and prior credits to the APC is included in 2005-2007. The 3087-1 bill filed today is balanced by income and expenditure and is supported by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. This bill foresees an increase in the expenditure of the State Budget General Fund for 2008 to support the agricultural sector by a total of 1 billion 715 million dollars. Of these, 1 billion dollars is to form a state food reserve fund, an agrarian fund; 350 million dollars is to budget support animal subsidies and state support for plant production; 250 million dollars to finance APC enterprises through a credit-supply mechanism; 70 million dollars to protect and protect forest management; and 40 million dollars to anti-epizootic measures. As a result of the budget committee’s consideration, he adopted a decision recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a bill under registration number 3087-1, submitted today in exchange for, on the basis of, and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u229	Colleagues, we write down five minutes of questions, answers to Mikla Ivanovich. Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u230	Dear Mikola Ivanovich, this is my offer. That's 70 million per, to allocate to support the forest, and please tell me, we're going to winter, and I think this 70 million would be very useful if we sent, for example, a budget-creative grant. These are other questions. They would go, indeed, for the benefit of this 70 million, and I'm more than convinced that they're just going to be wasted and they're not going to do any good. If you put them out for the spring, it's different for the summer. But today the forest is planted. All right, the train's gone. And basically, this 70 million, I'm offering to take them off, and then put them on for 2009, these are the costs. And now they're named after animal subsidies. And I think that, as much as such, really, the proposals are useful, it would be useful for the first reading today to accept it, and yet, we still have to work on it for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u231	Dear colleague, about 70 million bracelets. It's not just the planting of trees and so on, although in the fall, you know, and in October, it's still going down in September. There's a whole range of events here. But I would also like to say that your colleague, Ryobik Sergey Nikolaevich, insisted that this was necessary. That's why you agree. But the Committee has taken a decision and considers it correct. As far as supporting animal husbandry is concerned, you know, 350. So in the end, the hall will decide how to deal with this amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u232	Gordien Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u233	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear reporter! And once again, I ask you, is this going to win a simple peasant, or is it going to win the country's own business? Will this lead to an increase in the share of wages in the cost structure of production? Is there going to be more payments for pies and other things if we give them? Because we're not supporting a peasant in particular, we're supporting the big business that's doing its own work in the country today. Does a peasant win from this or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u234	Absolutely. To what extent it is difficult to say, but each article affects the improvement of agricultural efficiency. Of course, it will affect every farmer, including the wage. Well, not exactly to raise wages, but indirectly, it will. If you have any other suggestions on this matter, please submit, we will consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u235	Nadona's.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u236	Please pass the word to Katherine Semenovne Samoylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u237	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u238	Mikolo Ivanovich, I disagree with you. Nothing will change for the better, nor for the price of pies, nor for the wages, in some and many locations, have practically forgotten about it. That's not something to talk about. That's not what this is about. But here's what I'm doing. Sergei Mikolaiovich said 400 million went to 30 percent compensation for technology, the agricultural engineering of domestic production. I didn't find anything, maybe I wasn't very careful. Just recently, a month ago, in Hersonland, we had a thousand-pound Slavic, and there were farmers, and there were those who were interested in making the country's producer, not some mythical agrarian fund of Ukraine, from which there is no meaning and profit to anyone, we're alloting a lot of money. It's not better to increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u239	Dear colleague, first of all, 250 million dollars. And, of course, factories that produce native agricultural machinery. I can't say for every factory today how much, it's still the Ministry of Agriculture. But that sum will surely come directly from the farmer who manufactures agricultural equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u240	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u241	Yuri Carmazin. Dear friends, I want to support these draft laws that we have, but I have a question. What about the Ukrainian National Bread Company? Why don't we now consider how to make a country and state trader. Why are we today, Arsenija Petrovich, and in my opinion, in a new version, because we have a 3087-prim version. And then the new one now, once again, is now 87th Prime, another one in exchange. So we have three of these with this kind of project badge. And it says here in 25 articles that agree with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budgeting on the use of budgetary resources to form a national food reserve and to carry out state-owned forward, commercial, financial interventions. I think Arsenija Petrovich is right because the Committee on the Constitution has control functions and will then control the Supreme Council. This is our organ. But I have a question about "The Bread of Ukraine." Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, the functions of this fund's goods are somewhat different from that of Ukraine's bread. That's why the functions here are completely different. You read both laws and you'll find a difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u243	Mikolo Ivanovich, now I have a question. First. Does the Committee on Budget Affairs agree with the issue of the allocation of funds and the use of funds that are accepted by Kabmin every day of God’s life? Practically every session of the Cabinet makes a decision on how to use the funds. Does the budget committee agree?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u244	There was agreement on social development programmes by the Ministry of Regional Development. That was the fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u245	Got it. This is the only time, and secondly, I remember clearly how the President made a commitment to the law on this basis. Inadequateness of the Constitution, the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council. Second question. Do you think this law is ready for us to consider it in the first, second reading, will you need more time to consider it?
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, if the proposals made add 50 million bracelets, then the procedure is different.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u247	It's second reading. Okay. Got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u248	But in principle, if the Ministry of Finance is present, then it is possible to put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u249	Thank you, Nikolai Ivanovich. Merkovsky. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u250	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, honourable national deputies, we supported Bill 3087/1 in exchange for the budget committee. And given the additional discussion on the increase of 50 million to lend farmers credit for the corresponding increase in VAT revenue, we support the voting of this law as a whole. It's a technical question, you can edit it on a transcript, along with the budget committee and our legal office.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u251	Let's speak from the deputies and from the factions. Sidekick. "Julia Tymoshenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u252	Respectable comrades! We're sitting here under the dome, the rain's not on us, it's not cold, it's not hot, it's fine. People are waiting for this, peasants are waiting for this law. Therefore, I think that colleagues from our Ukraine who boycott the adoption of this law are wrong. And I don't know how you'll explain it when you go to the villages on this issue. I propose to accept it, and I join my colleagues in accepting it as a whole and as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u253	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u254	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Our faction also supports the adoption of this bill with those agreements that 50 million will be allocated to farmers to make loans, less than the previous bills have been proposed, but all this money needs to be allocated, and Minfin has agreed with them. So we're starting to think that in terms of increasing the credit rates of constant price growth, the hardest thing today is for a small-scale producer. It's a farmer and it's a farmer who runs a farm on a private farm. In order to carry out autumn agricultural work, it takes a lot of circulation costs, where they are to be taken by the retailer today, if the cost of grain is less than the cost of grain. So if we're going to adopt this bill, we have to support the entire village, for all the producers. And we'll do it wisely if it's as agreed in this room. Clearly, the mechanisms for distribution of this money are no better and it is clear that much of this money will not reach the peasant, and it will be lost on the road somewhere. But today there is such a situation that even a small fraction of the government budget should benefit the village. Because if we're talking about programs to support plant production or we're talking about programs to support animal production, these programs are actually working today to support large, large agricultural enterprises. But there are no government programs that personally support agriculture. There are no government programs to support this small-scale producer. And this is the disadvantage of our administration. Because much money is passing by the hands of those who truly live on this earth, those who cultivate this land, those who have associated their lot with this land, and those who actually produce a very large amount of agricultural produce. And it's that milk and vegetables and a lot of other things. So in the future, when we're adopting the 2009 State Budget, I'd like to ask Minfin, and I'd ask the national MPs to form these mechanisms so that every penny we put out here, I'd find my address, I'd find that farmer, I'd find that personal farm, and I wouldn't lose it in these brokers, and I wouldn't lose it in these traders. Then we will carry out our mission in front of the village and rescue Ukraine. So I propose to vote on this bill today, along with the support of farmers in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u255	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u256	I think the first speaking colleague in vain said that someone in this room would not support this bill. In general, as much as the APC agricultural support bill was not introduced into the session hall, we have always supported it. But I, my colleague, want to tell you that the situation of a simple human being, a simple peasant, unfortunately, does not change, but it does worse. Because we're our own drafts that we're adopting, I see, a lobby that's really worried about whether or not this law is going to be passed, because there aren't enough people in the room. Accepted, don't worry, gentlemen, accepted! But this bill really does support the person that we work with our hands and bees, but we support the big landowners, we really support this category. And that's why I really support those who talk about what we need to do, you know, very selectively, we need to predict how we can support and that personal agriculture, where we have six, eight, or ten cows, where it processes six, or ten hectares of land -- it's definitely something we need to look at. Not just to think that if you're powerful, if you're a monopoly, we'll give you money from the state. And if that's the same thing you're doing and you're hoping for your job, you're not going to get anything. The second question. I think 100 million for compensation, that's 30 percent, in the technique of a domestic manufacturer, is very little. Let no one be offended by why we're sending billions to the mythical agricultural fund of Ukraine, which is nowhere to be found and nothing to help the farmer. Why do we invest in foreign construction companies and why we are so modest, 100 million, in order to help 30 percent compensate the farmer, our farmer, for who works in the field every day? And I think, Mikola Ivanovich, we need to be very scrupulous about these issues, because we are addressing the issues of lobbying groups and not more, not the support of Ukraine's agri-industrial complex at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u257	Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u258	Thank you. Dear Head, dear colleagues, you know, I'm more than convinced, I see that today everyone is so galloping about helping the village, it's like there was no possibility before and so forth. You know, I'm going to give you a little example last month, when the government put some areas aside for damage. And here's an example for you. In the Plain region, there are twenty million sums. Sixteen districts. In fact, Arsenija Petrovich, Arsenija Petrovich, practically one element passed through the whole region of the Plains, one by the size of the rain passed and so on, as was the result of the distribution of twenty million. Twelve million out of twenty is virtually going, this is my district of the previous, Goshtani, where the land is the best in the area, the best and that's where twelve million are headed for four farms. When we are interested, what are the farms? And in those farms, the close-knit officials who work under the executive authority of the county administration and the first deputy head of the district administration, Mr. Blagadir himself, signed this distribution of funds, although they claimed all sixteen districts of the plain region that live in extremely difficult conditions, areas such as the yeartext, Rokitnowski, Dubrowitz, Radivilovsky, and virtually all without exception of the area. But there's only one area, once again, I've taken the most money, four farms, and so I don't mind, and this is really the Gostian area getting the money, but I'm asking and I'm going to initiate really to find out why the Gostian region, for example, took from 20 million 12 million, and where did the poor areas themselves divide?Oh, my God! Because there are infertile lands there, as if not the same people live and are so dishonestly treated. That's why I'm in this bill, Arseny Petrovich, and I see that there's some way, if you want to take it out, right from day one, to seriously establish some kind of control, because it can't go on like this. And I am asking, Arsenija Petrovich, to go to the Plains region to examine in detail the 20 million that were allocated 20 or 30 days ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u259	Vasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, we can argue about infinity, all of us are not yesterday, we go to the regions, in the villages, and we realize that this sum will not solve all the problems in the village, but in some ways it will remove the acuteness of the problems. Why is he talking about buying bread today? That billion, Arsenija Petrovich, is not going to the peasants, it's like the National Bank of Gold only in wheat, in bread, it's state supplies, bread is going to be implemented, and it's going back to the budget. Why we insisted, we, the Block of Lithuania faction, on a larger scale, because it's not the money that's being scattered, and it's the money that makes it possible today to buy the bread that they, the villagers, have grown and that is now being bought by merchants at very low prices, because no one is buying, the state has bought such a small amount that it can't seriously support the price in the internal agricultural market. And so you always have to make sure that the price in the internal agricultural market is enough to allocate at least 5 billion dollars for these purposes. They're going back into the budget in a few months, it's not the costs that are being lost. In addition, the funds that our faction has set up and that our faction will especially support are two articles that refer to the support of the manufacturer directly. This is a grant or support for the production of plant and animal products. And for animal production in particular, it also spreads to individual support farms. He sold meat — the host has a grant. Of course, there are many misdemeanors, abuses, but this needs to be fought, not just given to the village. It's a different option. I agree with those speakers who just said that we need to radically change the system. Yes, with the introduction to the WTO, we're from many of the articles that live in the budget today, we have to give up, we have to move on to the financing of the agricultural sector, which would rule out the management of the official, the different types of discards, and it went straight to the peasant for the production he produced and made. We can do this. The land’s fertility was supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u261	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u262	There was a fight against diseases and pests and animal production and vegetation. Dear colleagues, today is to some extent a rescue or a removal of at least the problems facing the village. We propose to uphold this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u263	Ruslan Knazevich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u264	The faction "Our Ukraine" will support this bill, because we understand very well that it is ultimately a subject of compromise. And so, given that the representatives of our faction, after making their proposals, were able to bring them to the authors and they were ultimately taken into account, in view of this situation, as well as the fact that, during the discussion of this bill, the representatives of our faction stressed the need for its vote, including in the support of agriculture, since it has always been a priority line, including our party building and party line in terms of the development of the agro-industrial complex, we have no comments and we are ready to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u265	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u266	Dear colleagues! Yuri Carmazin. As you may recall, in July, when we made changes, we had an extraordinary session, and we had questions in the village, including. And then the ambitions of some politicians refused to do so. And what I want to say is that there's a scary, scary thing that's done then: then people get 700 bracelets of grain, 700 dollars of grain, twice as much as they have to. Here's what happened then. And then, you remember, you said, "No, I'll sign this, I won't sign this." I'm speaking to the President's office or the President's office. Don't play that game with the country anymore. It's serious. We're late for this. This law is a mellowing of the impact on the village, a softening, because the state is unable to control its oil processing today — it is virtually out of control. You see, in the world market, you've gone down by a third of the price of oil. How much do we have down on diesel? For 20 bucks? All of it. Why? This is due to the fact that the State does not control, does not run, nor does the Antimonopoly Committee, nor the Holden Foundation. That is what the result is, namely, the enforcement of a bad law. Now, with regard to specific articles that were to be adopted here, of course, long ago. I definitely don't take it when we're writing a separate article for individuals in this important document that's already the third one. For example: “the development of the thermal economy of the state-owned enterprise is a scientific research agro-industry plant called Desert Water. Dear friends, well, in my opinion, the inclusion of individual enterprises is just a single, obvious sign of lobbyism, one that finds compromise, of course, and so on. But let's not do that, I'm asking you not to do that for the future. In no way does this business differ from tens of thousands of others, nothing at all. Except that the woods are all over the place. If we're talking about the formation of the state reserve, the reserve, that's what we have to do. And we need to get along with the committee at least in a transparent way. But when we talk about forests and they need to be planted, I have a question: why is it just specific forests, why is it only forests that are constantly used by agro-industrial enterprises, because we know that forests still have several owners. I mean, I want you to read the law, essentially, for everything. I mean, if all the forests are, let's get all the forests. One approach should be, not just those under certain controls. I see that today we have to adopt it, this law, both in the first and second readings, but I'm still asking, without the lobbyism that you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u267	Colleagues, yes, we're going to put the acceptance vote on the first and then on the second reading. Dear colleagues, pay attention. There is a vote on the adoption on the basis of Bill No. 3087-1, which replaces the adoption on 24.09.2008. Please vote. [[15:00:03]] For 313 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, there were several suggestions to move on to the second reading. Sulkowski's first offer is to take 70 million off some forest. Right? Sulkovsky's proposal to remove 70 million dollars into the forest is put to the vote. Vote. 2801. 260 – code. [[15:00:38]] For-81 The test didn't pass the offer. Clearly, then, where did the proposal come from? Let's move on. What's the offer? Turn on John the Rabbit's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u268	Ladies and gentlemen, here was a proposal that all the authors agreed to and agreed with Minfin to renew, in fact, position 2801-460, lending 50 million to farmers, although there were 70 million in a separate bill. Why do I show support? Because this is the norm that really allows a particular farmer, a particular retailer, to get that loan. Nobody's gonna steal this place. That's the point. So I'm asking you to support this proposal, which the authors agreed with, which Minfin agreed with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u269	Can I have a comment? Dear John Alexanderovich, I have a question: Who will issue this loan? Who's that? For 50 million, where to get a loan? To the Minister of Finance? Where do you think you're going? Instead of raising interest rates, I get it, we've got 250 million there now. Well, let's say you could put 300 million in interest rate compensation. How do you imagine who's going to issue 50 million loans? Where's the money? What bank? [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh! Nationals don't issue loans. Why are we knowingly suggesting that we are dead? Ministry of Finance. Turn on the Merkow microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u270	Your Honor, the thing is that this program exists, it fits the law. And we already have 60 million dollars. And this is an addition of 50 to the 60's.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u271	Arsenius Petrovich, may I? Arsenija Petrovich, as I think, is a very good program of support for farmers, because it is specially created under the Farming Act, the Fund for the Support of Farmers, where the money comes from. These funds are, the fund's department is at every district center, and it's an effective farm support program, because it's on a reverse basis. I'd like to support this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u272	Let's do it again. I'm betting on the vote on the amendment of John the Rabbit. [[15:03:22]] For 298 Correction accepted. More, dear colleagues? Catherine Semenovna Samoulik, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u273	No, it's not. We vote. And I said we were going to vote in general, there was no bill. Yuri Fedorovich, I'm asking very much of your support and to reduce the allocation to the Agrarian Fund by 100 million, and 100 million to go to 30 percent, 30 percent to produce domestic agriculture. It's small money. You know it doesn't even fall on one tooth. I'd like to ask you. No, it's not just Hersonian sausages. We have a lot of construction businesses. And I'd like to support you, too. It is not good for the budget committee to keep the matter quiet, forget it, exclude it altogether, because there are completely different issues lobbying.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u274	Yuri Fedorovich, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u275	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the revered Catherine Seminovna! It is very difficult to make such a decision because the Agrarian Fund is not a mythical, agrarian fund this year, thanks to your support, will for the first time in the last three years execute a government order for the formation of a national food reserve. More than 900,000 tons of food grain has now been purchased, which is in the state to address the food market situation and to form state food resources, according to legislation. Today, the billion that have to be allocated to the Agrarian Fund, once again, is not mythical money, and this is real support for those who sell grain to the Agrarian Fund. The agrarian fund only buys grain in peasants, and no one else buys it. So it's very difficult to choose, but for me, today in this situation, the grain market situation is more important.
ParlaMint-UA_2008-09-24-m0.u276	They heard the minister's position. Let's put an amendment to the vote. Please. We are voting for the amendment of Catherine Samuel. [[15:05:48]] For -50. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, now before voting in general, I'll tell you that there are no questions at all about the Agrarian Fund and ideology, because obviously, the Agrarian Fund is an operator in a market that temporarily supports the price. There's only a question of pricing, and who has access to the Agrarian Fund, and who doesn't have access to the Agrarian Fund. Because sometimes they wander a little, until they reach the Agrarian Fund, they're set up in three pines. But that's a different story. In principle, there are no questions about the interest rate. But if you're here, there's a lot of agrarian businessmen, by the way, sitting. It would be interesting if when we were adopting mining legislation, you remember, there were miners sitting here, we had to invite peasants here. Only real peasants, not peasants from certain lobbyists. And we'd like to hear from you, colleagues who have access to this resource and who don't have access to this resource. This is second, very interesting information. And anything else that's supposed to happen here, colleagues, well, I'm sorry, well, I don't have my hand up, some woods, some sort of arrangement, God knows what it is. If you think you can share that kind of budget money, I'll tell you, there was no such thing in communism. Well, vote. In general, vote with regard to amendments, such a mess. We're voting in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[15:07:25]] For 287. Decision taken. Closing the meeting.
