ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. Please be quiet. Let's start with the second point. Well, I'm warning you, we'll have the vote before lunch at last. So, since we have to vote for the first two points, we will begin with the second point: "All the corrections proposed to the law project of the fifth change of the law against the Eusal Autonomy Police of Erdigo. The discussion and the vote. First of all, I'm sure the President has the word to introduce the bill. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u1	Thank you, chief of the table, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. I'm here to present the bill of law for the fifth change of the Basque Police Act which we've made since 1992. Since it was accepted, he's had four changes until today. He has been constantly adapting himself to the social changes and the needs of security at a time. We want to work on and improve the Euscal Police Act we're in with this fifth change rate. We wish to adapt to the needs and demands of the euscal society today, the Borders, the Basque police, and the police officers to the police services which the society of today requires in its own hands may be fulfilled in an effective manner. The Basque Police offer services to the Basque People, the future basis, together with all the services which make up and secure the Basque General Security Plan. The Basque Police Act in force, adopted in July 1992, made it possible, with the four amendments it has undergone over time, to establish a solid basis and to promote the development of the existing police model and also of the police services that guarantee us. A model with two pillars. The Ertzaintza, as an integral police force, and the local police forces, with their own powers. Each from its autonomy are two police officers who complement each other and are fully integrated into all the services of the Euskadi General Security Plan. Both local police and Ertzaintza now have a high level of social recognition and public confidence in the assessment of the services they offer. At this level of confidence and positive appreciation, the strong and sustained political momentum of both the Basque Government and the municipalities has contributed decisively and, above all, I would say today, has contributed to the way in which we understand at every moment the public security needs of our society. It is the social changes, the new demands in the area of security, that make necessary the amendment of the Basque Police Act. Proximity, close knowledge of the society they serve, commitment to the values of Basque citizenship, coordinated work and police effectiveness, are today signs of identity of our police model. A police force, in short, involved in an open, plural, bilingual society, made up of citizens and equal citizens in rights. The police model, which we have a high degree of popular approbation and confidence, has acquired a high degree of authority, both of the edge and of the police, near the limits of an advanced society like ours. We present this proposal to the fifth change of law to the future, from what we have and from what we have, to the new necessities and challenges, as well as because we are in an important process of innovation. In a few years new police officers and local police officers are already arriving, and will arrive at the service of the Basque Police as a public servant. The amendment to the Act that we are proposing today with this fifth amendment bill of the Basque Police Act coincides, in fact, with this process of generational renewal of the Ertzaintza staff and also of the local police. Currently, the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies has around 600 students and aspiring students to local police or ertzainas. By the end of the year it will be about 1,000. With this draft amendment of the Basque Police Act we have a clear opportunity to offer these new generations a renewed and updated legal framework in line with professional development in the functions they assume and with the aim of improving their performance. The text of the bill is practically in line with its literality with which we presented in the previous legislature. Already then, in its elaboration process, it was the subject of numerous contributions and allegations, especially by the municipalities integrated in Eudel and also by the unions of the Ertzaintza and the local polices, RNE, Esan, ELA, UGT, CCOO, which, despite the delays suffered, have not ceased to demand their approval, as they have been able to listen to them in parliamentary appearances and also in more recent public statements. It was also the subject of contributions by the Association of Euskadi Sheriffs and AJEPLE, the Euskadi Association of Chiefs of Local Police. They have all repeatedly expressed the need to amend this law. They maintain their firm desire and also the demand that it be so. We agree in this attempt to establish and strengthen the police model, which has been adapted to the social and economic condition of the Basque State and to the security requirements of the citizens. And this is the time. It would be hard to understand, for the edge and the police, and it would be difficult for the citizens to miss the law for the day. I will try to summarise as concisely and clearly as possible those aspects which I consider most relevant in this amendment which we are presenting today. I will talk about the changes that reinforce the current police model in the bill. I will refer to the modification of organizational and administrative aspects of improvement that affect both Ertzaintza and local police. I will also address issues related to selection and entry into the Basque police force. Also measures that promote equality between men and women in the performance of police functions. On the police model, I stress first of all the incorporation of the content of the European Code of Police Ethics. The European Code of Ethics sets out the behaviour patterns of police personnel and police authorities in their relationship to citizenship and also in internal relations within the organization itself. Conduct guidelines for communication, transparency, accountability and active participation in public security policies. In this regard, I would like to highlight the creation of a monitoring and transparency commission of the Basque country police. It is an agency that, on a permanent basis and with functional autonomy from the police institution to which it represents, will be composed of experts, including external police experts. Its function is to analyse, at the request of the competent bodies, behaviours or practices which have motivated complaints and which have a negative impact on the confidence of citizens. In addition to investigating those issues, incidents that occurred during police intervention or operation or during police custody would have resulted from injury or death of a person. The regulation of this commission of control and transparency of the police of the Basque Country preserves, in any case, the neutrality and independence of those who form it. The draft amendment to the Basque Police Act also provides for new mechanisms for the evaluation, improvement and strengthening of the system of incentives for good policing. Mechanisms for evaluation, improvement and reinforcement that include, among other measures, some complements such as productivity, career complements linked to performance evaluation. Another of the proposed reforms regulates the horizontal career in Ertzaintza, which implies the installation of a recognition mechanism that allows access to the various levels of professional development provided for in each of the categories. In terms of internal promotion, administrative career, vertical career, is favoured, reducing the number of years required for graduation. To this end, the maximum limit of three calls is also abolished, which in the current formulation prevents further participation in internal promotion procedures. This elimination is proposed because the current provision enshrines the right to an administrative career for those who, even having passed the tests in the promotion course, would not have consolidated the position. Finally, internal promotion is allowed, attendance at courses for internal promotion, to those in administrative situations similar to active service, such as leave for the care of children and other family members, leave for gender-based violence and other special services. Even in the bill of law, positive dissecting actions are also foreseen that women may be allowed to go into the edge and into the police. Remember, at this time, women don't get to be 12% of the city council, and only 12% of the bordering. In the promotional processings and professional developments, measures are also determined to develop the difference of opportunity. New measures for positive action in favour of women in selective open-ended procedures are highlighted, always in a way compatible with the parameters required in the Community case-law on legal provision, proportionality and reasonableness. With these and other positive measures for women's access to both Ertzaintza and local police, the aim is to correct the imbalance that exists today, something that we are seeing step by step in the incorporation of new promotions into Ertzaintza, where we have reached promotions that exceed 25% of women, something that with the new proposal will receive an important and absolutely necessary boost. Because the reality today is quite different; the percentage of women in the local police does not reach 12% and in the case of Ertzaintza we have just reached 12.5% with the last additions I have mentioned. In short, what this bill makes possible is the elaboration of specific plans to correct obvious situations of inequality and to promote equality of opportunity, with the application of the provisions contained in Law 4/2005 for the Equality of Men and Women. Among the organizational and administrative changes that this updated drafting of the Basque Police Act entails, on the one hand, the modulated active service which, although in the case of the Ertzaintza this condition is already provided for, in the regulatory agreement on working conditions, with the approval of this draft law, the modulated active service, which allows it to continue to carry out tasks appropriate to age, would also apply to local police. Local police will therefore also benefit from the possibility of a day-time scheme without a night shift and, in any case, with a reduction in the annual working day. The draft law also provides for the regulation of the administrative situation of second activity due to psychophysical insufficiency, which places limits on the regular performance of the police tasks assigned to them. In the new regulation this administrative situation is not subject to age, but is directly linked to the actual psychophysical conditions of the official. Thus, if a person was entitled to a second activity, he would remain in active employment in his post provided that the latter permitted a second activity or, otherwise, would move to another post more in accordance with his conditions. With regard to the regime of rights and duties of local ERTZAINAS and police officers, it is proposed that complementary rights for cases of death or disability be more comprehensively regulated. The application of these rights is no longer necessarily linked to the meritorious behaviour of the police officer. Another aspect of this bill is the disciplinary regime. The aim is to establish effective, proportionate, adequate and fair internal mechanisms that go beyond the mere investigation of particular cases of indiscipline and allow patterns and risk factors. In order to provide guidance for improvement in training programmes, in working procedures or in the care of the working environment, it is important, as I say, to analyse these patterns and risk factors. In this sense, the disciplinary regime is closer to the general regime of the public administration, offering more guarantees to those who may be dispatched or dispatched. In the disciplinary section, the classification of very serious offences also introduces sexual and sexist harassment and repeated work harassment, as well as offences committed in the use of police cameras. For the sanctioning regime in the amended text, among other measures, it is proposed to take account of professional history as mitigating and to conceive recidivism as aggravating. In the section dealing specifically with the local police, the possibility of acting outside the municipal term to which they belong for the exercise of very specific functions is legally consolidated. On the police structure of local police forces, the bill proposes that it be structured in a manner similar to that of Ertzaintza. Thus, the categories corresponding to the headship of the local police bodies will be structured according to the population and the number of persons who make up each body. For populations or municipalities that do not have local police, the figure of sheriff is regulated and also the figure of mobility agent for the staff that is responsible for regulating the movement in nuclei or urban areas. The nature of police services complementing Ertzaintza and local police is based on three key aspects. Firstly, the organizational and functional autonomy of each police force; secondly, coordination...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u2	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u3	... Secondly, permanent coordination and collaboration to avoid duplication and to gain in efficiency and efficiency and, thirdly, the selection and training processes in which today, more than ever, we must combine efforts, share criteria, experience, methods and knowledge. To this end, the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies is a permanent body of selection and specialization in the selective processes of both Ertzaintza and local police, a reality that is in fact already being consolidated. Soon we will publish the unified bases for the third call for local police, which will be incorporated into the training in autumn. This legal proposition contains a great deal of new and good things. It's time, as I said at first, to accept the law and set it up, to discuss what has to be discussed, to agree to improvements, and to be a new law of the Basque Police. The police service we have in Basques opens the opportunity for today and strengthening, and it doesn't make any sense to leave them for later on. The Basque Police Bill that I just introduced...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u4	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u5	Bai, it's time to knock. ... is an opportunity to reinforce the police model we want for Euskadi, a police model where Ertzaintza and local police respond jointly and coordinatedly to the growing demand for citizenship services to meet new security challenges. An amendment to the current law necessary and timely, so that Ertzaintza and local police have an updated frame of reference. I therefore call on all parliamentary groups to open the debate, to contrast and to agree on those aspects, nuances and proposals that can improve the text presented. The bill that I am presenting to you today has a clear vocation: to consolidate the present and to lay a solid foundation for the future of the Basque police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u6	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Together, Mr Martínnez Hironez, representative of the Podemos team, has the right to make up for the full correction of the word. Side shift. Anybody else want to be a part of this? Not here. - Valerie.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u7	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. President, head of the Security Department, chief of departments, other delegates, members of the legislature. We have a bill project that he's been carrying for 10 years in a long box. 10 years in the government's limbo of promises, including the headlines, but there's no way to do it. I think it has been too long to renew an existing rule, which may be regarded as the result of a bad management. The government has had a strong lack of will and interest in preparing a good law of police. This law touches on a sensitive subject. It touches on a controversial issue and a complex issue for any rule of law, for any democracy, anywhere in the world and, of course, here as well. And we are faced with a rule that affects the police, but also the day-to-day lives of citizens of our municipalities and, therefore, it is an issue that requires calm debates, deep debates and strategic debates. However, after 10 years in a drawer, the government decided to bring us to Parliament this bill, being very aware that its debate was to take place in pre-election times, municipal, foreign and European, to which the state has now joined. And we all know that pre-election time is not adequate for the debate on strategic and sensitive issues, and I also think that we have seen it very recently. For me, that is a political irresponsibility towards citizenship. This is not done when there is real political will to reach broad and cross-cutting agreements, nor is it done when it is aspired to give real and stable solutions to citizens. You have to work for broad and transversal deals. For first, a Government which says that it governs for all the peoples, must have all the capacity for conversation, and all the opinions of society, be able to assemble; secondly, a government that pretends to draw all the geographical covenants and stable laws, must be with all the sensibility of the society of Euscal; and thirdly, this government is in the minority. And for this bill, the government has not made a single contact movement with this parliamentary group. Look, the government is weakening itself solely because of its mismanagement of the dialogue and plurality of this Parliament and of Euskadi. But as we are the strength of our left euphora, we are fulfilling the commitment we have taken and fulfilling the role we have taken in a democratic system. No more, not less. It is striking that the only group that has not tabled an amendment to the whole is that of the party that uses security and punitive populism unscrupulously as an electoral resource, the People's Party, which has come to propose the delusion that Ertzaintza should be subordinated to the Civil Guard and the National Police. And we understand that this was a sign that they are comfortable with the unilateral proposal of the Government. And, moreover, yesterday we learned through the People's Party that talks have been opened between the three groups – the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party. Is the government of the Jultarian Party and the Socialist Party to carry out the law of police with a political force which attacks the foundations of the self-organization? Really? With those sects of fear and pain to promote security lecturers? Do you wish to derive this law from the fact that the waters of the fundamental human rights are not acknowledged, and that they will diminish their freedom? With this complex panorama, from Elkarrekin We can present, with the time I have left, our proposal on security and police. It will be the first opportunity for the Government to listen to the foundations of our vision and work on the draft law. To begin with, this fifth amendment – and I stress that it is the fifth amendment – of the Police Act 1992, has proved insufficient for us to address the current security challenges. This partial modification gives continuity to a police model restricted to the concept of citizen security and crime in the face of the paradigm of human security, in which from Elkarrekin We understand that the policies of the Basque police must be framed. We already said this in the amendment to the totality we have recorded, security can be defined from multiple perspectives, which can be grouped according to the level of analysis they adopt – the individual, the community, the State, the region, the world – the threats they underline – common crime, organized crime, wars, environmental disasters, community conflicts, food insecurity, sexist violence, health threats, etc. – or even from the responses of public policy, which implicitly or explicitly prioritize prevention against repression, for example...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u9	In the case of Podemos, political principles, the security of which is involved is in the sphere of political liberty. And if we are consistent with these principles, we have decided to consider the concept of human security, the concept of great extension between the nation itself, that is to say, from the original, from the plan of the development of the United Nations, and to agree with the purposes of the permanent development of the European Union, and with the agenda 2030. Human security addresses structural violence, proximity security, security and social injustices through integrated public policies. Human security is defined as the condition of living free from fear and free from need; it contemplates a range of threats that can harm people's lives and well-being. And we have a proposition based on this as the basis of the Euskade, for its neighbors, villages, and cities, for our subject, extended to human security, to the evolution of its content, critical investigations, to theological and feminists of the world, and to the influence of many international aspects, which encourages the Equalist application of freedom, and at the same time promotes a social projection and a political tour of morality in practice. From this perspective, security is not only a matter of police, judges or prisons, but also of citizens and institutions as a whole. The security policy we propose is participatory, integrated, transformative and efficient. Partly shared: public policy is made for the people, and they ought to be made with the people, as well as in the sphere of security. For this reason the citizens must be in the right place. Besides, that part of the business is to be pushed inside the institutions, and the contribution of all the World's Games is important for this matter. The share of other institutions is indispensable, and it must also be restored to the hands of the public and private institutions. Second Integrated Security. The political section is security, and it is absolutely necessary to integrate it into them. The appeal of freedom, the guarantee of rights, and the support of the community, must be the end of all the music of the World. From the whole government. All politics, then, must be impelled by each other, even when they are of security. On the third hand, the security that will offer a democratic partnership, a changeable security, because another security policy is possible, a security which will offer freedom, and a democratic community based on social justice. And on the fourth side, effective security, it is necessary to provide for the purposes which it is intended to attain with sufficient budgets, but determined by the criterion of efficiency. That way, we have to face the adaptation of our current police services. For our parliamentary group, both in the preamble, a statement of reasons for the text that has been presented to us, and in the development and articulation of this draft amendment of the law, a series of partial insufficient changes is proposed to a model of police institution within the framework of a very narrow definition of security and which does not respond to the challenges presented to us today. From this vision, which we understand to be reduced and short-term in the law and in the changes they propose, there is a lack of prevention and the creation of adequate conditions for the police to face other security challenges, such as those that attack the common good. For example, environmental offences in their broadest sense, offences against territorial planning and urban planning, fires, the environment, against flora and fauna and animal abuse. Crimes against labour rights or training to protect the right to strike, training to protect the right to housing and address evictions are also absent. It also misses everything that has to do with the major tax offences, which are the expoliation of the heritage of all, and neither do we see clear measures to deal with the macho violence within and outside the police institution. A police model, culture, and organisation is determined in political areas, with the laws which constitute the reality of the police, as is the law of the Basque Autonomical Police which we discuss today. In such a legal project, the fundamental parameters of the police are defined in a particular direction: To ensure security policies and an organization of police which is actually integrated to it, in which the crime will be invested rather in prevention than in the following persecution, where they will have the privilege of protecting the common domains and the rights which are established, and where human rights will always be treated as axes. This draft amendment of the Police Act gives continuity to an obsolete model of security and police, restricted to the concept of citizen security and crime. It is an unambitious change and it seeks to distort the possibility of opening ourselves up to the major security debates that are currently taking place. Secondly, and closely related to what I have just proposed, the proposal for the fifth amendment of the Basque Country Police Act amends a number of fragments of a law dating back to 1992. Almost 30 years of law, and this would be his fifth patch, which hasn't rained in 30 years. It is undeniable that in the 30 years that have passed a lot of water has flowed under the Euskadi bridge, rather a few laughs, and after decades in which there have been major changes of a political, economic, cultural, social nature that require a thorough revision of the police model and not a series of continuous patches. It would also be necessary to add to all this the different legislative changes that have taken place at this time, such as the Law on the Organization of the Public Security System. And there are also many developments in this area at the international level. Moreover, the paradigm of human security, without going further, is post-law and originated in 1994. Presenting a partial amendment of the law and not a complete revision of the law loses the opportunity to carry out a thorough revision of the police model through a broader, more participatory, more ambitious and more strategic debate. A debate that we owe ourselves as a society for different reasons would be falsely closed. We also believe that it is necessary to review the security and police model because the latter is restricted and because it is outside the reflections of the proposals and of the most innovative experiences, and because this is the fifth patch that would be given to a law of another historical time such as 1992. We also find that this law seeks to develop an idea of a homogeneous Basque police where characteristics of local police are lost. In this way, Ertzaintza seems the model to follow for everything. The potential and needs of local police are fully diluted and unanswered. And we do not agree at all, even if we are strong advocates of a close and strongly integrated police force in the territory and in the community in which it carries out its tasks, a police force that provides direct service to the citizenry and is framed in the development of new security policies based on the preventive paradigm and proactive and non-reactive actions. It is about building a structured policy where police activity must be accompanied by cross-cutting intervention policies, it must have an integral character and be based on the work of the community, considering the active participation of the neighbours without which this model does not work. It's, in short, a new style of police. It is important to remember that in the daily activities of the security forces, and above all of the local police, there is a wide range of activities covering, in addition to those directly linked to crime and crimes, another wide range of actions not directly identified but closely linked to crime, such as informational or preventive campaigns, dialogue with the citizenry, administrative activities, talks in schools, daily contact with the citizenry or other similar ones that at the end involve a greater approximation and which indirectly imply the reduction of crime rates through prevention. We are currently faced with a model in which Ertzaintza plays a unique role, but in which it is essential to have a proper regulatory fit of the local police that confirms their real situation. And these cops, we understand you're leaving them out. In our view, it is essential to seriously consider the creation of a law on the coordination of local police officers, a journey that is already being undertaken in other autonomous communities and that seems, according to various expert opinions, to be a good experience and that responds to the current realities of local police officers. So, with a general point of view, we do not agree in the manner in which we make this present arrangement of the law. The narrow and blurred view of security and police, the antiquity of the law, and the hitherto patient, and the absence of a public and open discussion. Furthermore, if we look at it in more detail, we also do not share some of the changes that are intended to be implemented with this proposal. Together Podemos strongly defends external autonomous organs to control and evaluate the conduct of the police, and to ensure that the conduct of police is legal. In addition, we believe that this type of control body should take as a reference the international active norm for the mechanisms of control of the activity of the public authorities in defining their composition, dependence and functions. For the proper functioning of such a supervisory body it is necessary to lay down the conditions for the office and its coordinator to be autonomous and independent from the public authorities to which it has to control. The project proposed the creation of a monitoring and transparency body consisting of Ertzaintza commanders and specialists appointed by the Government itself. For Elkarrekin This proposal does not meet the basic requirements for the constitution of such an organ, since its impartiality and autonomy is questioned, especially when it comes to investigating rulings within the police system. And Euskadi has an agency with functions and powers to carry out this task, which is Ararteko. An efficient police institution is also made up of supervisory officers such as the Ararteko. Together Podemos introduced an initiative to open the process of creating a mechanism for the torture. In proportion as national liberty is established and established in the system of security according to recommendations and regulations. We don't want to take this argument in this nervous election, and we don't want this debate to end with a fifth puff of law. It would be a risk that we could move forward on a sensitive, fundamental and necessary issue, even more so when we are talking about transfer for prison management. But we do not approve of the committee proposed by the Government in this amendment, which has already been proposed. That is why we have tabled an amendment to this committee, in order to strengthen the accumulated work and experience that Ararteko is already developing. This work is very much in line and is consistent with the possible creation later and after a wide-ranging, participatory debate that incorporates the opinions and voices of various actors of the mechanism that I have just mentioned. Among the amendments, there is also the discreet but strategic proposal to reduce to the minimum the articulation of a genuine judicial police, dependent on judges, courts and prosecutors, which from the political sphere and successive governments has never been properly endowed or developed. And Elkarrekin Podemos has always claimed the existence of a genuine judicial police that depends functionally and organically on the Office of the Prosecutor, judges and courts, leaving only the administrative relationship with security in numbers and with adequate means for the development of its police work, independent of the Government. It is also necessary to mention that the Government's proposal does not resolve the situations of legal uncertainty experienced by agents in relation to their labour rights. In the area of equality between women and men, despite some progress in the proposed amendments, we believe that more ambitious steps need to be taken. The police of the Basque Country, must be a reflection of Basque society at this time, measures must be taken to move towards a police model composed of citizens, reflecting a diverse, open and plural Basque society. As we plan, if we introduce human security in the eyes of the police, we must take measures to establish the culture and organization of the police in the view of equality and human rights. It is a purpose that the principle of equality in the external and internal politics and the police should be included, without the direct or indirect disquisition of the genus and the machistatic violence. This involves establishing stable equality bodies, with economic resources, specialized staff of their own, with organizational dependence at the highest level, which will enable the design, coordination, evaluation and guidance of equality policies and the incorporation of a gender perspective into internal and external security policies. It is also necessary to move forward with a model and measures that will allow women access and career opportunities, eliminate the distribution of tasks by gender, sticky floors and glass roofs, end the wage gap, implement measures for care and co-responsibility, implement affirmative action measures where appropriate and take measures to ensure an institution free from direct or indirect discrimination and gender-based violence, in particular gender-based harassment and sexual harassment. Thus, seeing that the direction of the proposed adaptations was not agreeable to the want of ambition, and that the two parties were one of the hinges to which Podemos was to be faced at the present day, we presented this full correction. As I said, seeing that the way in which the amendment is being proposed and also understanding that for Elkarrekin Podemos this is one of the great debates and the great challenges we have to deal with, we have tabled this amendment as a whole. We believe, indeed, that the whole law ought to be adapted, and that it should be founded on a new form of security, before a discussion is opened, and the various operating parts open to the recipient. As I said, I believe that a complete amendment of the Police Act 1992 is really necessary and that it must respond to a new model of security and a new model of police, having previously had the necessary debate open and with the participation of all the necessary agents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u10	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. We're gonna go in reverse shift, who wants to participate in the opposite round? Well, then, Basque Socialists, Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u11	President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak with two parts. Part in favour of the processing of this Police Act. And a second part, referring in particular to what the political position of the Elkarrekin Podemos group can be. Obviously, the first part will reflect not only on this whole amendment, but also on the next, though when we look at the next, of the Bildu Group, because there will also be some specific approach to what they propose. Citizen security, objective and subjective, that of real risk and perceived risk, is one of the concerns and occupations in any democratic society. Citizens' security is part of the public services that the policy manages and administers to the citizenry and undoubtedly constitutes one more aspect of the social welfare of all citizens. Article 17 of the Statute of Autonomy clearly states with great wisdom that this policy, this public service of citizen security, belongs to the institutions of the Basque Country. It establishes that it is the institutions of the Basque Country, the Government, the Parliament, that we have the power to legislate on this competition and, indeed, that is what we are doing. And, indeed, we have a good Statute of Autonomy, which must also be highlighted in order to be able to process this law, an extraordinary and enviable capacity of self-government, which should also be taken care of and prestige to improve, which should be done always and especially in this time of political turbulence, in which political attacks breaking the model at one end and the other threaten to disturb political and social coexistence, with grave prejudice to the general interest of the citizenry. Socialists are in the care, prestige and improvement of self-government, of the autonomous and constitutional model, and with that interest we actively and decisively participate in the modernization and improvement of self-government, which today and at this time passes through the reform of the Police Act. The proposed reform of the Police Act contains an updated philosophy, improvement measures and more resources for its implementation. This political determination is reflected in the draft presented, it is also extended by the partial amendments tabled by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups, and it is also in the will of the two groups mentioned above to agree on proposals from other parliamentary groups. It is therefore a project that has current and future, which serves for today and tomorrow, that wants to meet the citizens in their desire to have the best and most modern security, that attends socio-laboral measures demanded by different trade union groups, that attends proposals for coordination and greater effectiveness of the Basque police carried out by the municipalities, that is more demanding with the police actions, because it establishes more controls and more transfer. Ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliament has been dealing for years with the need to update and modernise the Police Act, a need that is marked by the evolution of society, its demands, its interpretations of security, which are changing, by the evolution of events, by the referral of one type of crime, by the transformation of others and also by the emergence of new ones. A need that also brings other policies of protection, police coordination, good practices, accountability to citizens and their institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists, when we say today that the police of the Basque Country must be at the forefront of the defence and protection of human rights, we do so knowing that Euskadi is no longer an area of permanent violation of those rights, it is not a settlement of indigenous terrorists, murderers, extortioners and accomplices of one of the bloodiest gangs in contemporary Europe, although unfortunately for life and freedom, it is still very recent when democracy finally managed to defeat ETA. The fact that the 1948 Declaration of Human Rights has not been operational in the Basque Country until the end of 2011 gives relevance to a proposal to amend the law, such as that addressed today, because today we can speak clearly of a new time, in which priorities have been changed and in which security has a more social perspective, because the right to life and freedom have conquered the space that belongs to them. Conquest of which the socialists are very proud, for the struggle and resistance against the barbarism and fanaticism that we had to face, and of which there are still some leftovers and democratic shortcomings in some unwanted protagonists. I take this moment to greet the representatives of the police unions who accompany us, who are welcome, that their presence not only does not provoke us, but we like; just as it does not provoke us and we like the presence of any citizen who visits us, because this is their home, this is the home of all Basque citizens, without exception. A greeting that I extend to all the policemen, whom we thank for their work and give to the public safety and encourage them to continue, because we need them, because this law, in order for it to be a good law, needs good servants and you are. Ladies and gentlemen, initiating the reform and improvement of a law with an appeal to the European Code of Police Ethics is more than adequate in the times we live in. A law that has been concerned with incorporating the growing bilingual reality, improving service delivery in both languages. A law that advances and seeks to regain equal opportunities for men and women, from a gender perspective, moving resolutely towards the demand of society. It is timely and very topical to mention the bill on the integral nature of the Basque police, when in these days, and apart from what is laid down in the Statute of Autonomy, there are those who want to relegate it to a subsidiary role vis-à-vis the National Police and the Civil Guard, in that desire for re-centralisation, for the emptying of the self-government that conservatives and extremists promise, and which has not gone unnoticed, however much later, in a long-changing attempt, has been resorted, once again, to "San Concerto Económico". The bill, this fifth amendment, improves the accountability of citizens for the actions of the police and their authorities. It strengthens evaluation mechanisms and improves police service; improves its working conditions, professional expectations and recognition of services provided. The institutions and, in particular, this Parliament are given greater prominence in order to be interested and to act in the face of police practices; the participation of experts in security control is expanded to avoid suspicions or corporate temptations; the use of weapons and technical means by local police is regulated; the obligation to plan regular practices on the management of personal protection of the police service is reinforced. Progress is made in the suitability and impartiality of the tutors and supervisors of training courses; mobility is improved by establishing percentages and attendance from other police forces in the Basque Country. Internal promotion is more easily regulated and access times are reduced. The singularities of retirement are considered; the guarantees of the free designation procedure are defined as regards the principles of equality, merit, capacity and publicity of calls. Guarantees are defined for those who are terminated for long periods of stay in specialist posts. The duty of residence is abolished; the requirements for access to criminal investigation posts and judicial police are improved; the status of the acting civil servant in the municipalities is regulated to cover any non-structural needs in certain functions; progress is made in collaboration between bordering municipalities for specific needs. The Government is committed to the development of regulations over a period of time; attention to professional careers is regulated, the particularities of the remuneration structure of the Ertzaintza and the role of management is clarified. The regulation of incompatibilities is improved, the Government is empowered to make the necessary budgetary changes for the implementation of professional development. In addition to these proposals for improvements, there is a political will to deepen and agree on compensation in cases of insolvency, in disciplinary proceedings, in time, in degree, in proportion, in matters of interest to the organization of the trade union representation, in municipal agents or sheriffs, in criteria of rejuvenation of the staff, in the handling of complaints concerning the services of the local police, on the prevention of occupational risks, on second activity. We are also prepared to engage in dialogue on these aspects and that is what we will do in the course of the partial amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been going on for years. It has had innumerable participations of professionals, trade unions and associations, has had municipal contributions; it has had attendances and meetings of all kinds; it has been done with the collaboration of multiple experts. It is time to come to terms and decide, because, ladies and gentlemen, even if some do not know it or seem not to know it, in this Parliament they have the right to decide, and the decision that comes up today is to reject the amendments in their entirety. With regard to the amendment by Elkarrekin Podemos, we share that security must be related to public freedoms. We share this assertion in its entirety, we do it out of conviction and because the socialists have experienced it for many decades, decades that in order to be able to exercise the freedoms formally recognized in the laws of democracy of the rule of law, we needed to be accompanied by security and that is not how we all achieve it. We share that human security encompasses all the assurances that the person needs, security from the threat and security from the need. We share the view that the impartiality and transparency of the oversight bodies can be improved, that it can be further deepened, that the role of the judicial police can be improved, that it can be further deepened. We share the view that gender equality policy can be more ambitious. The problem – while we share all this – lies in whether you are willing to agree on a law of security or whether, once again, stage fear can help you. The problem lies in whether in this struggle to compete with Bildu you want to dispose, dare to have enough political autonomy to separate from the bubble you usually share in important aspects, such as this law. And in view of this, we have to look at the background, and we could also see the very presentation of amendments, as has happened in this process. The recent background tells us that sharing with the Government and with the support groups for the Government matters of political importance bother them so much that even what they do is compete with Bildu to see who comes before saying no, who anticipates saying no when it comes to addressing political aspects of great importance. They have done so very recently, they have done it again now and will probably remain in that position. In this context, I was telling you that we can share reflections, but we are afraid that while our reflections are seeking, what they seek is to approach and add, theirs do so to hinder the agreement. Everyone knows that there is a way of not wanting to enter into a concrete debate, which is to put it on an excessively general, overly ambitious, practically unattainable plane and from there it is absolutely impossible to come down to concrete and reach an agreement. But since we'll have a chance to talk about it in the next few shifts, I'll leave it by then. For these reasons which I have explained in favour of the law and for which I have explained in relation to what we intend, interpret, understand its political position, we shall vote no to its amendment in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u12	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Chief of Staff, Congressman, good morning to all. And especially welcome to all of you who represent the Borders, knowing how much interest and how long you've been following the consent of this law. Mr Martínez, the position of Podemos is not changed together. Not always, all back, starting from zero, changing the paradigm. Just excuses to keep quiet. Now, for the change of law to the police, you're required to return to the beginning of the bill of law. An excuse is: because it is necessary to make a quite new and quite new law adapted to a new paradigma of the model of security. The proposition of Poseidon did not surprise us. You're always predicting a new circle of society in every respect. You defend all that you have done so far, that you must return; but, in truth, the return seems to be yours. I have something to accept. The content of the corrections you have submitted cannot be attributed to any pending consistency. Because, after all, as you said, you've put into the correction of all the theory of security that surrounds the election plans. This, based on your ideology, was a philosophical project that organized a partnership with people. Everything he had, but only yours. You think the police are right in society, what you think is society or your police are summing up in your correction. Everything was, of course, but only yours. And to describe the ideological functions of one's own discourse is, of course, quite acceptable. I don't doubt that. But this law of the police is intended to establish certain universal principles, which are principles of the least effective agreement. It is essential that we should be professionals on the basis and value of the changes of society. Because responding once again to his group's need for a constant and universal paradigm shift, they pose us with a new model of human security, a new concept that is coined in the 1994 UNDP report. This concept attempts to overcome narrow views of concepts such as national security, which we share, as Mr Prieto has said, that is, it would include, as you put it, aspects such as the universal basic wage, universal access to basic food, universal health, environmental protection, transparency and political participation, etc. It would ultimately cover practically all social, health and public policies; it would cover everything, so that it would overflow a law that regulates above all, and seeks to regulate above all the unique features of the police system. The amendment, as you said, includes within the concept of human security, both to live free from fear and to live free from necessity, but you know that there is also no doctrinal consensus on its precise meaning. There are those who criticize their vagueness, there are those who warn of the risk that the concept ends up having an expansive effect on military and police functions – which I hope is not their will. And so, because it is feared that under the umbrella, the security package, will eventually encompass economic and social well-being or human development. There are those who add, in addition – I am sure that Mrs Arana, who smiles, knows it – a feminist critique of this concept. You guys, actually, what happens is you get lost in nominalisms. I invite you to think about the substance. Look, we agree that the police model should be oriented towards achieving social welfare, protecting, respecting and removing obstacles to the full exercise of rights and freedoms, we share that. The police must be oriented in a proactive direction focused on prevention and problem solving, focused on responding to the needs of the citizenry, open to working in alliance with the citizenry, with social agents, with social services, health care, always respecting the specific roles of each institution. For all this, you would do better to put aside your theories and big paradigms for a little more attention to read what you actually say the rules that you criticize and intend to repeal. And I remind you, look, article 4 of the Police Act of the Basque Country says that "the security policy of the autonomous community is oriented towards the achievement of social welfare, for which it will coordinate with those others that develop the different administrations of the Basque Country to respond to social marginalization and meet the demands of the different social actors". The Public Security System Organization Act states that "public security must be understood from a systematic and comprehensive perspective. This vision of public security focuses public policies on citizenship as an active subject receiving public benefits and not as formerly exclusively towards State security and the maintenance of public order." And article 2.3 of the Act expressly states that "public security policies are aimed at promoting conditions and removing obstacles for individuals to enjoy the full exercise of their rights and freedoms, and to develop their lives and activities in areas of coexistence in peace, well-being and social cohesion, reducing as far as possible the risks and dangers intended or likely to disturb the rights and freedoms of persons and the security of persons, their property and their collective heritage". All this says the law, says the current law, "hitzez hitz", word for word. And you should read more carefully, because ultimately, your brand new paradigm is not as new as you claim. The only thing that would be needed is for you to approach issues with less prejudice than those you approach. If you really stop the prejudices and read carefully what the laws say, you do not understand that you intend to return the project to the beginning. Because you say it's a long-standing law. Well, prejudice. It's not long-lived. It is true, dating back to 1992, it is true, but it has been modified and updated on four occasions. By the way, look, 297 laws in force at this time in the Spanish State are prior to 1978. The Civil Code is 1898, the Commercial Code of 1895 and the Notary Act of 1862. This law has been updated and adapted to the times on four occasions, because every time there have been many laughs, you said, every time there has been a laugh in this country, there have been people who have shoes and cleaned and have put the country back on with this law as well. Nor can it be said that the amendment is mere patches – another prejudice – because this, precisely the fifth amendment, is the most substantial and silent reform that has had the law since the year it was adopted. But if you read carefully and without prejudice, you could admit it. You say in your amendment – although you did not say it today in the rostrum – that it would be necessary to add to the law the changes made in the Law on the Ordination of the Public Security System of Euskadi, and I admit that you do not cease to surprise me. In fact, that law, the law of 2012, already amended the Police Act. In fact, they are complementary laws that do not need any integration, because they are both part of the existing public security system. Precisely, the 2012 law embraces the expanded concept of security that goes beyond that of state security or citizen security, and covers much more than the police services themselves. Much more, read the law carefully. And I end with three more issues that you use as totems and that you have also mentioned here in your argument to return the project to the government. First totem: "The authentic judicial police that depends organically and functionally on the Office of the Prosecutor, judges and courts". Let me tell you that this toast to the sun that you make seems very good to me and I share it, but it must be managed within the framework of an eventual amendment of the Organic Law of the Judiciary and the Law of Criminal Procedure, because you know that it is absolutely impossible to subject the Basque police to an operating regime as judicial police outside the legal framework that regulates that police. Therefore, you have duties for the next Legislature in General Courts that now begins, duties that you have not yet done. In addition to that, look at the 297 laws that have been in force since before 1978, if it seems to you that the simple age or the passing of the years is enough matter to corner something. That was what they intended to do with the political parties when you were born and it seems to be good for everything. Second totem. The equality between men and women in the Basque police that, in your opinion, goes unnoticed in the bill we are debating. We are called upon to deepen and work on all aspects necessary to advance equality, including in the area of the Basque police in this area. And we agree, that is why it is precisely not understood that you are asking for the project to be returned, that is precisely why we must give the project a chance and see what improvements we can achieve in that goal that you and we share. In the area of equality between women and men, we can achieve agreements and progress. However, the way is not to close the door to the bill. It's just the opposite. If the law is returned, the situation is perpetuated; if the law is passed, progress can be made. That simple. Third totem. The legal and functional framework they propose for local police. You say that the different local police coordination laws of other autonomous communities should be reviewed and a local police coordination law created. Forget that we already have our own local police coordination law. It is in the Law on the Organization of the Public Security System and in the Law on the Police of the Basque Country and I assure you that it goes much further than any autonomous law in force in this area. Three totems that do not hold, and you say you would have preferred a new law rather than reform the current one. As always with that complex that things have to start with you. Look, it sounds like it's pure clumsiness or, I want to believe, no, I doubt it, a permanent obstructive attitude. In short, words, words; as the great Mina would say, "Word, word, word." Look, reform is positive, improvements are possible and this is an opportunity to move forward. But instead of moving forward, you propose to stop, and you also do so by accusing the government of a lack of will to negotiate. Again, "word, word, word." The return of the bill of law, probably, what would it suppose? For the third time, to leave the law without renewing it in the last laws. The choice of the law would be suspended. If the law returns, you'd cancel the process of setting a professional career for the edges. Most of the professionals and experts who have decided on this legislature don't want it. In the occurrences, when there's been a scene on the committee, you've asked over and over again whether a new law is needed, and you've been rejected from all the majors who've appeared. We're sure that we can work out the law efficiently, we're sure most of the security professionals want it to be today for the law, as soon as possible. We have a good project of laws in our hands, and there is sufficient opportunity to improve them by several of the words which have been introduced. But this way of your representation does not advance, it stops us, and we want to go on. We want to improve the police model, step by step, perfect. With members of all, yes, but without stopping, without going back. And therefore we shall refuse your correction and the return of your project. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u15	Well, I'm surprised. Surprised because, first of all, the lack of political arguments when it comes to rebutting our proposal, and those that have been given, caught with clamps. And, above all, because the central argument that has been used to confront our position is that we have an obstructive position or that we have no will whatsoever to deal with this issue. So, I'm going to ask two questions: One, why didn't they call us? No, no, why didn't they call us? Why have they only talked to the People's Party, what I will then talk about, that I think it has enough fabric to cut this issue off? And two, it seems that they have not communicated much with their comrades of the Socialist Party, who were very much in agreement with things that we proposed, but listening to Mr Prieto, and listening to Mr Prieto also criticizing the proposal of the People's Party regarding the subjection of the Ertzaintza, Civil Guard, National Police, it seems that the Socialist Party has not found out that between you and the People's Party, as they admitted yesterday, there is very good agreement to approve this law. If there is so much agreement on the paradigm, if there is so much agreement on the extent to which security policies have to have, on their integrated character, on the need for coordination between security between different areas of public policy, on the control of external actors, why have we not had a single meeting to talk about the Police Act and its future? They answer, because we haven't had a... The first opportunity we have had to present to the Government and to the government parties our approaches to security and the Police Act has been in this rostrum today. It was in this rostrum today. Do not expect us to go from good to good to first to ask you a yes, when you have not even asked us what we want, what we propose and what we think. And obviously, when we look at our proposals, we do make an ideological development of our own, yes. Can we plant the ideas of Elkarrekin in the partial amendments? Yes, of course, and in the amendments as a whole. And on top of that, if you look at the speech that Elkarrekin Podere has given in terms of security for the past two and a half years, you will see that it is absolutely consistent with what we have been saying since Elkarrekin Podere came to this Parliament. Therefore, none electoral interest. Moreover, if it were for us, this debate could be better a month later than today. Much more positive would be for the deep debate that security needs. Therefore, the only conclusion I can draw from the response given to me by the two parties of the Government is that those who do not really want to leave their comfort zone are you. They stay very comfortable in the comfort zone next to the People's Party. They look to the right, reach out to the People's Party to face a reform of the Police Act, no more or less, and join the Party of the Bite Law. You hold hands with the party of the political brigade, the patriotic police... Finally, a party that considers the police to be a tool for gaining power, undermining democracy, and undermining the rule of law, and that is now publicly being tested. It is the travel companion you have chosen and it is the comfort zone in which you have chosen to be, without making a single critical analysis of the security policies we should have in this country. Because if you criticize the little novelty of the concept of human security, you can hardly defend a law that is older than the concept of human security and that, obviously, does not correspond to the times that it is up to us to live, to the challenges that it is up to us to live. And this is not just what I say, but what the adviser herself says every time she brings us the analyses on the impact of crime in Euskadi and which, of course, does not correspond to the whole series of issues that have happened in this country in recent years, because we all know that we need an update of the police model in Euskadi, because we live, in many matters, a new time in Euskadi. Have they not made a single movement of dialogue with anyone else? So they have consciously chosen, unilaterally, to walk hand in hand with those who have the most retrograde, more conservative, more punitive and more arbitrary vision of the police institution. Therefore, we and we are really concerned about the path that the Basque police, the Ertzaintza and the local police can take, when they have chosen the People's Party as their travel companion to face this fifth patch of the law. In addition, I will highlight, specifically, as you have drawn the dichotomy between citizenship-State and defence citizenship-State, and that this is introduced in the Basque Security System Law, I will introduce one of the issues that is being discussed at the time on this paradigm and which, precisely, highlights the People's Party in its amendments, which has to do directly with the use of weapons. Mr. Txarli Prieto commented that the use of weapons by the local police should be regulated. On the proposal of the party with which you have decided to remove this law, the use of weapons by the Basque police and, in particular, by the local police is increased. They have chosen a fellow traveler who also wants to drag us to a crossroads that is false, that does not exist, because there is no problem to solve about whether weapons or not; the problem that needs to be solved is what model of security we have, what kind of police we want on our streets and how authority and trust are invested in the police institution and the police officers. This is, if the authority obtained by the agents is due to their monopoly of the use of violence or the explicit demonstration of their monopoly, or to good police practice, proximity to citizenship and the capacity to resolve conflicts. And I would like the agents to be respected primarily for their good work and for their help, and not for carrying a weapon. And that is not what we want to discuss either, and indeed we welcome the most retrograde proposal on this issue, because if we debate this, many questions about police culture and organization need to be questioned that do not want to be debated, because if we open this debate, all political forces would have to stand up again to this dichotomy, that is, to whom the police defend and who protects, to citizens or to the State. And as much as it is described in the Basque Security System Ordering Act that the police must protect the citizenry, if you tend in the direction proposed by the People's Party, you are designing a police model that protects the State and not the citizenry, because there is nothing more to see than the weaves that this party brings with the patriotic police. We've got it all figured out. The police protect citizens, protect their rights and protect their freedoms. And here it's clear. In what mirror we want to look at ourselves, if we want to look at ourselves in the mirror of the United States, with constant police abuses and very high crime rates, or in countries with high welfare rates and low crime rates. And to look right, to look at the People's Party, is to choose the first mirror and this is very serious. To conclude, Elkarrekin We may not pass the fifth patch of an obsolete law, it will not pass to a reform that we understand to be shortsighted and short-term of a 1992 law that gives continuity to an outdated police and security model and that generates constant problems for the police themselves and citizens. This model does not respond to the challenges of the twenty-first century. We are not going to give way to a bill that has been in a drawer for 10 years, which has been brought without open, public and calm debate, because you have never contacted us at any time, but Elkarrekin Podemos has a lot to say and a lot to contribute to this issue, he has a proposal with concrete measures and tangible measures. We have been the parliamentary group that have tabled 105 partial amendments, 105 partial amendments, which describe the model we are betting on. We are betting on a security model and a police institution of proximity for our time, for the neighborhoods, towns and cities of today and tomorrow, which develops – as we have said before, although Mr Iturrate does not like it – within the framework of the paradigm of human security, critical studies, ecological and feminist perspectives, and which is open to international multilateral influence; which learns from the good practices that are currently operating in other cities and countries with high standards of respect for human rights and very low crime rates; which promotes equality, social emancipation and an ethical-political turn in practice; which puts people at the centre, which protects the common good, rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u16	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The second round of answers, Mr Pricee, the Basque Socialists, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u17	The CEO. Mr Martínez, if the spokesman for an important political group like yours comes before a sectoral law here, it is clear that he is in a political provision that has absolutely nothing to do with the content of that law and the possibilities of amending that law in the parliamentary procedure. It is clear that you are in the whole of the policy; it is clear that you are in that stage that you have been trying for months to prove that this Government is isolated, this Government is in a minority, this Government does not have the capacity to reach agreements with the other groups in the House. And this has been done on more occasions. They've done it in budgets, they do it here and they do it whenever something important comes along. Because, in essence, you have an unresolved problem of political immaturity when it comes to being able to reach agreements on matters important to citizens that go beyond what is your concern or what is your partisan interest. Because, obviously, there is no group here, absolutely none, by the force it occupies, by the force it has in society, that it is in a position to impose its ideological model on 100% of society as a whole. And that's why we have to make a deal. And you every time you come out here, in the last few months, you try to do it with an apparently very ideological discourse, to make the possibility of agreement unattainable and so you have to say one no to one thing, say no to the other and say no to the next. The way to charge a budget is to raise an impossible expense; the way to charge a police law is to raise an impossible model; the way to charge a police law is to suggest that, more or less, it has to respond to global security. And then, from there, for everything else, look where it is. Now what are we gonna discuss? Professional career? What are we gonna discuss? The borderline problems between the city halls in security? That's, anyway, that's parrot chocolate. And, obviously, he no longer arrives, he no longer arrives, he comes without bellows to the law. It's out of the law, because it's global. So, what do you do? Weep here and make excuses. Cry and make excuses. Look, "It's not time, it's not time, because they're choices." Look, this law has been going on for a lot of months, since last year. It has been the successive extensions of parliamentary procedure, which we have asked the groups voluntarily, which have brought us here. And, therefore, this is the time for a law that has been introduced for many months, almost a year. Well, that's the way it is. Is time the problem? Is it the election problem? Hey, does citizen security depend on election calls? Or does it depend on us having a political commitment from all groups in our powers to legislate to bring it forward? What's with the excuse? What's with the whining? He says, "I want a global debate." Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, A global debate, for what? To hide. To stand as a curtain, to stand behind him, not to be able to then solve and concrete anything. He says, "They didn't call me, oh, they didn't call me!". But don't cry, man! Which is that technologies allow you to go back and forth on calls. It's just that the technologies allow you, if you have the will, to call. But you have no will, and that is why you are submitting an amendment in its entirety. He has no will, so he tabled an amendment in its entirety. Listen, when you want to reject a law of plan don't come then crying that what you want is to agree, this, the other and that you can here and you can there. And then now, the joke, the grace is that I've made a criticism and I haven't heard, because it seems that we have to take the People's Party among cottons. Look, with the People's Party we can agree on what we agree on, and what we don't agree on, we'll say it. Because we do have that political autonomy. No one is watching us, we are not waiting to compete with anyone anywhere on our right or on our left, but we can express clearly what we think and, indeed, I have made some criticism, some very serious political pronouncement that the People's Party is making the whole state and that has not been nuanced in the Basque Country. So what? And what's going on? And you think that's not part of a political debate, so what concept do you have of political pluralism? And what concept do you have of being able to debate and express ideas? It's just that, in the end, it's an absurd approach. I say to you, listen, can we go deeper into the systems of control, the systems of transparency, the policy of equality? Listen, you haven't heard, the criticism, listen, I tell you you can get better there, of course, because the other would be a sign of prepotence. Hey, is this law the best in the world? Don't you have any more political space? Can't you go beyond that? Of course, it has more political space and it can go beyond that. And that depends on the will of this House as a whole. That depends on the correlation of forces. Listen, if you want to add, have no doubt that you bring a piece, have no doubt that you take a space, have no doubt that you can bring this law a little closer to your political positions. Now, if you come with the whole, then don't cry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u18	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u19	Mrs. President. Mr. Martinez, I want to confess to you that you're a fun one. His second intervention has made me feel a little nervous, if not because of the cynical burden he had on me, which Mr Prieto then took care to bring me to reality and to get me out of this calm, this placidity which he has brought me to. You say it's irresponsible for us to bring this up during the election period. Mr Prieto has already replied and I am not going to enter into the procedure, which you know or should know, as a spokesman for a parliamentary group, to process a law. In any case, who has brought here the electoral campaign, who has brought here the electoral debate, who has been talking to Mr Casado, I do not know whether on behalf of Mr. Iglesias or what, it was you. The others were talking about the fifth amendment to the Police Act. What happens is that you are, as we are in the electoral campaign, you wanted to take advantage of the debate to hold a rally, and it is legitimate, but don't accuse us of bringing this into the electoral campaign. Look, you, with that very touching way of talking, have asked us why we haven't called you, and have asked me to tell you why I haven't called you. Well, why are we calling for a law to be negotiated to whom you're asking for the law to be returned? You, but I'm gonna tell you more... no, no, before, before, when? Early in the legislature? Last year? When you still didn't exist and were thinking of coming to the institutions? Hey, look, let's be serious. Mr. Prieto has already told you, let's be serious. Look, we haven't called you, because you've asked for the law to be returned. But I'll tell you more. They have not only asked for the law to be returned, because if it had been something testimonial, I limit myself, by maintaining that great paradigm of new security, to say that this has to start from scratch, like everything else with you, everything has to start from scratch. No, no, it's just that you're not just witnessing something, you've tabled an amendment in its entirety; you've negotiated, you've tried to negotiate, you've maneuvered to get the project back. They have not merely tabled an amendment in its entirety. And, besides, with the same People's Party, the political police, of all those things that you have told, yes, sir, you and you, that we will then go with them. One and the other. With the same People's Party, which does not serve to pass the law, it seems to be, because they are contaminated, it does serve to return the project; or it serves to reproach Councillor Darpón; or to present proposals for changes to the regulations in relation to trade. Look, I'm asking you to be honest and not cynical and commit. Look, if the gentlemen of the People's Party are contaminated as an interlocutor to make politics, for all those things that you have pointed out, it is your decision. We have said in this Parliament and outside this Parliament that we are not going to veto anyone, we are not going to veto anyone. So, if you think they're disabled, say so, but then don't maneuver from behind with them to try to break defeats to the government, which is what they've done. Look, you, with return, help make everything you claim to defend difficult. You claim that it will end the inequalities between men and women, that the glass roofs will be broken and you, with the return, will do just the opposite. Today we have learned that the judges have cancelled the reserve of non-commissioned positions for women in the Ertzaintza. Why? Because there's no legal reserve. And if your strategy, not just to table an amendment in its entirety, but if the amendment goes ahead and goes back, go on, you will continue to maintain this situation rather than break it. Because you are lost in words, I have told you, you are lost in great statements, you are lost in philosophies and when you commit, when you take responsibilities you make mutis for the forum and as long as you continue to do so it will be difficult. We can call them whenever it takes, but it is necessary that when they are called there is someone with the capacity and willingness to speak on the other side of the table, and for the moment you have not proved it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The Representative of the EH Group has the word, Mr. Arzuga, to protect the full correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you, even to the guests who came. If this law be approved we shall have a law for 20 years, which will compromise the future of the Basque Police. So I want to watch my interference later. It's known where we come from, the past we're leaving behind. So, considering the present, I'll try to project my interference to the future. What security do we want, to put the police on the table? That's the question I'm going to put here and the one I'm going to try to answer. Are we drawing the future Basque police with this form of law, or are we sign and strengthen the past model? Is this change of law going to stop the roots we have in our next years, or will this change of law stop the trouble? Shall we take advantage of this, or will one chance be lost? Is this legal reform going to solve the debate on the police model in this country or is it going to postpone sine die? Or, in other words, is there only one way to organize the security service in this country? Are there any alternatives? Are alternatives allowed to be thought of? Is the current one possible vision on how to organize the Basque police? The only way to provide her with resources? Should we assume that the model proposed to us in that law of 1992, 30 years ago, will serve us for the next 30 now with certain cosmetic touches? When this reform project was brought to us three years ago, we then stated that only a few superficial issues of that 1992 law would be touched upon. Today we see that. We did not want to open the melon, we did not want to face the debate, we did not want to touch the model, we do not want to have an ideological, political debate. And as I see it, from the news that came out yesterday, a salary debate is enough with the incorporation of some economic supplement to give way to this law. Proposal that, by the way, comes from the very hand of a party that has indeed made a fundamental proposal and that has indeed wanted to break the board subordinated to the Ertzaintza to the prevalence of the State Security Forces and Bodies, that is to say the People's Party. And I'm responding, Mr. Iturrate. We actually talked to them. Indeed, we asked them what their attitude was to be towards the amendment as a whole, and they did not answer either yes or no. And yesterday we saw what was going to be the tune that you seem to be starting to develop. This law denies the possibility of this debate. Indeed, the second paragraph of the explanatory statement explains that this reform is not going to touch on the model. It is curious, because it is a paragraph written in italics, it is strange with regard to the rest of the purely technical questions that are in the explanatory statement, because it does have a political silence and it seems that it has been added later by another hand and that it closes the debate, and I quote: "The police model that advocated the Police Act of the Basque Country is a reality settled and socially recognized". The debate is over, there is no reflection, there is nothing to question, there is no alternative; either this model or nothing. We have heard in the apparitions a large demand that this discussion of the pattern, let us reflect upon it. So Podemos, together with him, asked for the scenes he asked for, and also the experts, the academics, the representatives of the organizations, the members of the local police. But I'd like to consider some of these statements. Edge-to-airs Association said to us: "We see the want of a more accurate reference to the police model that ought to direct the administration. A civil, a democratic police, a remunerative of the rights and liberties of all the people, to create what is natural." ELA: "From our position of ertzainas committed to our profession and proud to serve Basque society, we lack in this bill a more concrete and unequivocal mention regarding the police model that must govern in the Ertzaintza". ERNE, now at the hands of the PP, also mentioned the need to rethink the model: "The Police Act is a great opportunity for the clarification, after more than 36 years of the entry of the first ertzainas to the Arkauti Academy, of the police model that is wanted to be implemented once proven that the current one reflected in the current Police Act has been a real fiasco". Now it seems that they are abandoning that position, that opportunity to go down to the bottom and talk about the model by prioritizing some corporate improvements. Perhaps the proposals of both sides are not compatible, they are opposed, they are in each other's antipodes, but they do ask us at least for an open, wide-ranging debate that takes into account all possibilities. But not only the point of view of some opposition groups and more or less critical unions with the department and with the Ertzaintza. In January 2013, in ETB, Mr Urkullu said, headline: "Requests to update the principles of Ertzaintza". April 2013, The World What happened in 2013? Has that process occurred? It's brought that model change in such a way that... November 2016, Deia: "Beltran de Heredia will seek the agreement to consolidate the police model". Then it wasn't consolidated in 2016. It's not what he puts in the motive statement. I'm not going to read again. Is that a deal you've been looking for? We haven't been talked to. The only thing that has been done is to bring in a law that leaves more things outside than inside. The gaps and deficiencies of the current police model are spontaneous, due to the failure of an exhausted policeman's interpretation or of a complete view. The bill of law of the fifth change of the Basque Police leaves no proposal for further consideration in the model. It is said that there is only one way of arranging the police, providing means, marking prioritys, arranging certain different departments, or interpreting security, which is now in progress. This attitude of self-consciousness does not seem right to us, for there are so many very questionable subjects, but this bill of law does not offer any means, because it shuts up the discussion. It's not just that the soustic context has obviously changed. And I hope no one will deny it, we've lived a remarkable change in this town lately. That past security needs, means, functions, organizations, and tactics, were supposed in the past. It was worth rethinking of these means, functions, organizations, and tactics, at the present day, with calm and depth. But it will not be so, and therefore we have advanced the correction of completeness. I'll try to place the safety test of EH Collect on the table now, and then I'll try to place three objective variables of actual reality on the table and examine it. One is the rate of crime. The other, resource, template and budget, and the third, the distribution of the functions. We have a special quality in this country, and, moreover, we have a specific nature of criminalism, of Arba, Biscaia, and of Gipus, of what we had in 1992, and which cannot be compared with what is not possible in the surrounding countries. We have a low rate of crime and there's nothing serious about it. Besides certain serious cases which sometimes disturb society, which allow subjective security relief to be shaken, and which deserve specific attention. Two, resources. That is, staffing and budget. In the face of a favourable development with less crime, hardly public order interventions, without an increase in the demand for citizen security, do we have to focus on the same priorities as 35 years ago? Because we are within those parameters of the past, are we responding adequately to the new realities, the new challenges, the new security concerns of this people? Faced with this new reality, why use identical resources in security? Why don't they reorganize in another way? Why is the same ratio of police per inhabitant maintained? Why do there have to be 8,000 inertzainas? What budget do we need to deal with all this? The budget for the Ertzaintza in 2012 was 658 million. There was a drop, a drop in collection in 2013, going to 582, that is, 76 million less. So heredia's Beltrán advisor told us that with that money she was going to provide a quality service. At the end of the exercise, he said that the objectives had been met and that efficiency had been achieved. Today, we return to the 2012 budget parameters, that is, can this service be provided, with 76 million more or with 76 million less? First class economy, finite resources for infinite needs. Are these resources used well? Yesterday the PP sold us the professional career, the economic complements that will derive from the professional career better said, as the touchstone to approve this law. We have considered this reform as something cosmetic, as makeup, but it is even worse, because now it seems that the simple coverage for a wage improvement, to give way to a corporate claim, would be enough to pass this law. More money in salaries for a staff that is also growing, up to 8,000 troops. Is this approach sustainable? Some unions have already taken out the tables with the new complements, not by professional competence, but by mere antiquity, and it seems that they are already beginning to rub their hands. Is such a budgetary effort possible? Is there any economic memory that's backing it up? Why are these benefits for a sector of public officials, when the rest are facing cuts, loss of purchasing power which is already reaching 14%, in the interim, when Osakidetza's career is frozen? Why yes for Ertzaintza? And I would like to ask you if this is the case, if what came out yesterday, all this information is true, gentlemen of the PNV and the PSOE, since Mrs Beltrán de Heredia cannot answer me. Is this pre-agree real? Thirdly, what is the current functional distribution? There is much talk of the word integral. I have to tell you that in the Statute, there is no such term, there is no mention of the Ertzaintza or the Basque police as an integral police force. So, it's an interpretative term. How do we interpret it? How do you interpret the term "integral police"? Is it interpreted perhaps as the Ertzaintza knows, can and should do absolutely everything? Is Ertzaintza integral police? Or is it the Basque police, that is, Ertzaintza plus Udaltzaingoa, more emergency agencies, more civil protection agencies, which complete a comprehensive security service for this country? Because it's very different. If the Ertzaintza exercises proximity police functions, is it not colliding with the function of the municipal police, which is the real proximity police, from our point of view? Isn't there a duplicity going on? If, for example, the Mountain Rescue and Maritime Unit of the Ertzaintza invades functions of Civil Protection, Fire Department or Red Cross, is it a good form of organization? Is it a good functional distribution of each, of what should you do? Where is it established who should assume each function? Is it by force of fact? Is that why you take it the fastest? Is that why he comes first? Is there a proper functional distribution? Because I don't think so. And I believe that this law should be taken into consideration, but this debate is once again obvious. Cityguards and borderings have a different character. If this is not clearly indicated, the functions are confused. The EH Collect proposes a detailed distribution of the duties of the one and the other. For us, he's a police officer in the vicinity from the City Hall. I quite agree with the consideration of Lander Martín. The police, the constable, the constable, the constable, the constable, and the policeman, who develops the safety of the municipal towns in a natural way, because they have spent years and years in contact with the citizen, the police who helps to solve daily affairs. The edge doesn't make any sense to take that paper on its own. Bordering doesn't make any sense to play that part. If the edge is a police officer, the police are specialized from our point of view, who will participate in special interference, and perform operacis beyond the municipalities. The principle of speculation has certain definite characteristics: It must be a continuous formation, it must have great technical capabilities, and it must be organized in special groups or units. Environmental, Judicial Police, Unit of Economic Crimes, Unit of Inspectal Crimes, Unites of Investigations, Hates, and Discrimination Crimes, Unit of the Missing People... Some of them do not exist, and some of them are not well provided with resource. I'm saying that we understand the police as the police force and the edge police as a specialized police force, and that between them will be the integral police or the integrated security system for this country. That's the pattern. The explanation of these functions would also oblige us to change the ratios, to adapt, to invest them. But this division of functions must have been received even by law, and not a word of it has been received. Unfortunately, instead of making a proper distribution of functions, the department has a direct agreement with the local town, where the collaboration agreement does not develop the distribution frame of functions, but has not set the frame between functions. Thus, without establishing the functions which the border or the police are to take on their own, the co-ordination has not been determined, and from a logic of independence between the police, he has preferred to negotiate by councils. This law could determine the proper division of the functions between the border and the police, the rated and distinctly expressed, and on which other compacts could be enabled by the councils of the municipal and municipal councils. But it didn't mean that way. Another defect: the division and co-ordination of the different functions of the euscal security agency appears in the legal distribution of several regulations, decrees, and orders. The most significant example is the Public Security Act 15/2012. It is intended to leave them untouched, and to show themselves, in the same manner, in the same age, in the same manner, in the case of the law, so old, so imperfect, so imperfect, and so not developed in some cases. Indeed, because we have another problem that is not going to be solved by the present reform of the 1992 law, which is precisely that we have a scattered and chaotic legal corpus, which is going to avoid rationalising and coherentizing in a global debate. The first paragraph of the bill that is now before us confirms that, and I quote: "Law 15/2012, on the Organization of the Basque Public Security System, has removed - it has removed - the common aspects of public security as a whole, such as the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies, the coordination of local police or the mechanisms of coordination, police cooperation". In fact, instead of having a single legal-legal corpus, in a single complete law, it is broken down into different laws, which must be interpreted, in addition, subject to the Law on Forces and Bodies of State Security, not to mention other decrees and orders. The Counsellor tells us that coordination and cooperation will be improved, but I wonder how this Law 15/2012 is not touched. And the point is that instead of giving this coherent, overall, unified legislative response, certain patches are going to be put on. The Basque Academy, regulated by Law 15/2012, will be reformed through this reform, because it seems that there is an emergency to institute it as the only organ in the selection processes, which also creates a problem for us, a practical problem: this system is relegating the role that the municipalities have to choose, to carry out the processes of choice of the local police, as we are verifying. Arkauti is boycotting and hindering the own OPEs that are being carried out by the municipalities, which resist this unified call model, a unified call that, far from changing the parameters, now announces to us the counselor that a third call is being prepared. We oppose this system, we oppose this system frontally. Coordination with local police is not correct, because it is still carried out from a hierarchy or submission mentality of the local police, from Udaltzaingoa, with regard to Ertzaintza. Police cooperation is not satisfactory, because it is still not implementing the provisions of Article 16.6 of the Statute, to reverse the intervention that in recent decades the state security forces and bodies have developed in the maintenance of law and order in the Autonomous Community. Patches, patches and more patches, instead of having a globalizing logic and facing the whole. The Basque Police must account for society. The function of the police control and transparency committee, constitution and activity, does not satisfy in our view the role needed by a ambitious mechanism of torture or abuse, and it is not a mechanism we have invented, but a system suggested by the United Nations, the institutions of the United Nations. Unfortunately, the problem is not to establish a committee or a mechanism, one or the other. The problem is, there is no clear will to show the police and police functions clearly in the eyes of the people. The police still interpret as a dark and opaque camp. The department treats the community suspiciously, when the union of the people, the popular institutions, and even the opposition, is here when the opposition group, the distinctness, the explanation, should give us information. He thinks it might be better if we know few cops we understand but little, or if we control little, we're still better. It is not to be understood, for instance, that at this day there is no record about the use of fire arms; it is not to be understood how often the edge or local police use the weapon of fire around it, and under what circumstances they use it; it is not allowed to explain the rates and statistics of crime every year less data and depth. In front of the citizen, in front of the local representatives, a policeman who doesn't show confidence can't expect confidence from the citizen. This is a matter of structure, a committee of this kind, unfortunately, which is not solved. We disagree with this partial and cosmetic form of legislation. We'd like to put another item on the table since yesterday. With this new agreement that arises between PP, PSE and EAJ, a possibility will be lost to re-read the edge and adapt it to the actual reality. PP, PSE, and EAJ seem to agree with the pattern, they agree with the constancy of this pattern, and agree with the support of the flanks, and I think that if it is unbalanced, this bill will now be with new companies towards PP. We have another opinion. We don't plan a revolutionary model that belongs to an unreal or to another galaxy. Our model is to do and to attain it, the civil police of Esscal, the Basque, the Basque, the close and the specialized, which will be transparent and effective. And to this I think it is rejected. I think it's refused to allow this point of view. Lovenzen noa. We brought to the Commission John Finnie, a Scottish police officer, who explained to us the model of police that had been established in his country, a model that he himself had helped build, which he had helped develop and for which he himself had fought, a police that continuously sought his legitimacy before his society through transparency, accountability and accountability. A police officer who barely carries weapons, something that facilitates communication, trust and empathy with his citizenship. Only 3% of the police in Scotland are armed, who must intervene in those operatives who need the use of firearms. In Scotland they have a police ratio per inhabitant close to half of the police ratio we have in this country and with twice the participation of women we have in these three provinces. A policeman whose main weapon, John Finnie told us, is the word, which only uses force as the last ratio when communication, persuasion or verbal warning has not taken effect. And this is what we wanted, a model that exists, a model that works, a model that is possible, a model that is nearby. I'm sure Scotland isn't a perfect pattern, neither is it, but it's real. There they have tried, they have made it possible, and I thought it might be possible here, but we see this, this model, this possibility, the doors close. A short quote to the full correction given by Podemos together. I agree with that paradigm you bring us, citizen security versus human security. I think it might be an interesting model to discuss, to examine. You have passed from philosophical and ideological interpretation to certain details, and I take them into consideration, Mr. Lander Martín, and I hope we shall find ourselves on the way. We'll agree in this vote, I suppose we won't agree in the discussions we're going to have, in the presence of this model that's being presented to us, but we'll find ourselves on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. On the other hand, the Basque Socialists, Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u23	President, ladies and gentlemen, in this speech, I will be briefer, because part of the arguments in the debate were about the further processing of this law and, therefore, that part I have already done, remains in the record and specifically in this speech I will talk about the amendment of the whole of Bildu. Bildu's amendment in its entirety is an amendment to my judgment which is full of insinuations, muddles, bankruptcies, which in the end do not end up defining anything and which conceal what I believe are the two main reasons for opposing this law. – whether explicit or not, use one language or use another – which is the animating of the Ertzaintza and its commitment to distort the need and functions of the Basque police. To justify the unjustifiable it is recurrent to question the police model, to talk about the new time, to retreat to the previous legislature, to appeal to the need for agreement, consensus, to denounce that no one has been taken into account for this project or to criticize the coordination and distribution of functions between the Ertzaintza and municipal police and municipal autonomy. Nor could it be in any other way and taking advantage of the moment, the "Let the Civil Guard and the National Police go", and they reproach the project for not treating the retreat. So far everything is predictable, even if it's not real. The bill before us takes many months to process and the time that has elapsed, as can be seen in this session, is beginning to bear fruit. Government appearances, trade unions, associations and experts have left ideas and proposals that have been collected by the Government, by the groups we support the Government and by amendments tabled by other groups. The time that has elapsed and the work that has been done has served to ensure that the amendments in their entirety, today, could be in a minority. They have served to strengthen the project by the time this process is completed. They have served to ensure that part of the protagonists who have made these contributions, and that some of them accompany us, as is obvious from the trade union side, have expressed gratitude and gratitude for the things that we have decided to incorporate into the draft in this legislative process. Contrary to what Bildu says, the will of agreement and maximum consensus is in place in the authors of the initiative, and it is not even as virtue, but also – or not only as virtue, but also – but because it is a necessity. It is not necessary to be mathematical to know that the Government needs support beyond those it has, from the groups of the Government and, therefore, this is a bill like all the others, which without third-party agreements is not possible to move forward. Another thing is that Bildu is considered entitled to veto to certify what it is and what is not agreed, depending on whether or not he participates in it. Certainly, the distance between Bildu and the project is enormous, and the amendment of the whole, although it does not express it clearly, is referred to in other speeches that we have had in this House during this parliamentary term, in which the number of staff has been constantly questioned – and this has also been done today – by more than 25%, public job offers have been paralysed and police interventions have also been systematically questioned in a series of episodes that everyone will remember. Bildu has denied the need for 8,000 agents, has made them responsible involuntary, including for the lack of doctors, nurses, teachers and employment techniques. That is to say, if there is no more of this, it is because there is too much police and, therefore, the police, in some way, though unintentionally, are responsible for this shortage of means, according to them, in other public services. And with all this he has intended to trivialize citizen demands for security. In a way, from his philosophy, from Bildu's philosophy, there are many left. Because they propose that the police be almost invisible, yes. Let it be an entertainment police, more or less, i.e., a charlet police. And that in order to avoid other major problems, because he does not make interventions, he refrains from intervening. Indeed, in order not to intervene, to go for a talk and to be invisible, because I believe that there are not 25% left, but 99% left. Ladies and gentlemen, Bildu's episodes of animosity towards Ertzaintza have been repeated and accusations of disproportionateness in the face of violent and risky events as well. Animating that extends to the security forces and bodies of the State. Bildu's amendment to reject the law is not based on the model, coordination, the type of current crimes, the protocol for the use of weapons, or municipal autonomy. The rejection is political and visceral, because it is the rejection of a citizens' security policy that, in fulfilment of its duty, has persecuted ETA terrorists, criminals who are heroes to you, murderers who are political activists for you in defense of the freedom of your invented homeland, whom for decades killed 864 people, and injured 6,401 and created tens of thousands of victims, because of having a professional activity or a political affiliation. There was nacism and genocide and there was persecution and extermination. That is where he was attacked and repressed freedom of expression. With all this background, with everything you have worked and worked to cover up what happened, to rig the story, to make the bad guys look good, to deny the condemnation of so many atrocities that have been committed, how dare you talk about models of security, of citizen security, when you are self-disabled to propose police models and to be credible in your approaches of apparent concern for citizen security, when you still have huge debts pending with the democratic quality of the defense of human rights! In this state of affairs, which you are tabling in its entirety, I sincerely thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u24	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u25	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. EH was collected and the edge is a reactional binomium, and your full correction was written before the law itself introduced. And unfortunately, that's how it was. It is true, Mr. Arzuga, that the bill of law recurs to what has been introduced in the preceding proceedings. On the other hand, there was no opposition offered in the whole line against the law. Two generations ago, a reform project was introduced, and there was time to introduce corrections. And even then, they didn't make any full corrections, or, at this time, coalition. I also want you to collect the Basque Algrees, a member of the coalition. The EH Collector says that the model of police in 1992 was responding to a precise moment of socio-political police, and that the other, when once and for all, one and the other disappeared, the need of a change is revealed, as the President and the Chief of Security have confessed in 2013. You seem to think it's two separate boats, and the disappearance of them leads to the disappearance of the exasperating police model, and you're wrong again. Even if it's late, it's lucky and it's gone. And this enabled him, that is what enabled him to recover the personality signs of the creation of the Esscal police model. Yes, there is the example of the Basque Police which we had originally driven. This is precisely what enabled the state to extend, and exactly what the law of 1992 has said. This was exactly what the President and the chief physician said in 2013. But EH Collector never liked the police model in '92 or 2013 or even in 2019. EH Collector doesn't like the edge, just the tip. The conclusion you draw from this is hard for the edge and injurious to our country. Your example is to ennoble police services with one single purpose: Edge-incapable removal. The problem of meeting EH is not this police model, but that of the police itself. The problem of gathering EH is not this standard of edge, but the existence of the border. There is no need to use complicated words or circumloquies. It's about telling the truth. His problem is not this police model, his problem is the very existence of the police, in particular the Ertzaintza. It was in 1992, it was in 2003 and it is in 2019 as much as they move their heads like the dog that goes in the back of the cars. For you the problem is Ertzaintza and therefore you have one problem or, rather, two. Look, I recognize that your position is respectable, absolutely respectable, but make it clear. Do not hide behind strange circumloquies, complex allusions to the sociopolitical context. Speak clearly because we have discussed it many times in this Parliament and on the street, and they have never recognized Ertzaintza. You say in your amendment that there are structural defects that the bill does not address. You say that cosmetic issues are created. They once again claim that the bill is self-contained. Well, for you, everything is self-congratulating. The Police Act is self-complacent, the Budget Act is self-complacent, any initiative of the Basque Government is self-complacent, the lehendakari is self-complacent. Look, so much to quote the mantra, they must have been beaten, because here the only self-complacent is EH Bildu, distributing self-congratulations to all and for everything, and never taking responsibility for a decision. The explanatory statement of the law is not self-contained, it is just the opposite; it details commitments, analyzes the social context and concrete challenges. They probably don't like it and it's their right, but it does. It makes it clear that the reform aims to strengthen the interplay of police services with an open, plural, bilingual society made up of equal men and women in rights. Strengthening is improving the commitment of the Basque police. There is no self-congratulation when it is intended to improve and do so with a far-reaching reform in many respects. That, I admit, is a reform of this law. It deals primarily with matters relating to the legal regime applicable to officials of the police of the Basque Country. It deals with aspects relating to this law, does not address other issues that would entail changes in other different laws. These questions outside this law, those are your circumloquies, are the excuses that you use not to speak of this law. Let's get on with the circumloquee catalog. You're talking about a supposed normative dispersion. Even I, a bad law student, know that the rules interrelate with each other by forming a coherent order without the need for everything to be encoded in a single compilation text. The relationship between laws, decrees and orders is based on the principle of hierarchy. There is no regulatory chaos because there is a plurality of rules subordinate to each other, it is logical and normal. Its explanation of the regulatory dispersion in the field of public security is a tribute to the circumloquium. What they need to change in Law 15/2012 on Citizen Security will be addressed at the time. In any case, this law clearly explains its purpose to serve as a basic law or umbrella to the whole Basque public security system. This concept not only encompasses the purely police, but also covers issues such as emergency management, civil protection and other sectoral policies. Therefore, do not go into the future to avoid the present. What is now at stake is to update the regulatory legal framework for persons working in the Basque police, a framework which has been stalled in its review for more than eight years and which has been demanding for the generality of the officers. One more circumloque that leads you in this case to the stratosphere. We are told of an alleged subordination to the Organic Law of Security Forces and Bodies. Look, read what the first final provision of that organic law says. Turns out it's not applicable to the Basque police. Only Articles 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall apply. You know why? Yes, you do, of course; because regulation is found in another organic law, in the Statute of Autonomy. That, as you well know, can't alter any other organic law that's not a statutory reform. It's very clear. The legislator, however much some announce it in an electoral campaign within his electoral strategies, cannot delimit, condition or impose the prevalence of state forces over the Basque police. But neither can the Basque Parliament legislate on the functions or limitations of functions of state police forces and bodies. There is no subordination because incorporating references to police bodies outside the regulation of this law has no basis, because it is the Security Board that hosts the work on these issues. This sounds to you and you know it, because it was you, EH Bildu, who advocated something similar in the Police Act that you promoted, promoted and approved in Navarre. They promote something similar to what they don't reject here, they anamemizan. It's the squared circumloque. And turn no more, there is no subordination; no more tides, no more tides with his baseless obsessions. Academia against the Arcautic Academic is nothing but one thing. "EH Collect despises the service which the academia confers on the townships of the Eescal. You despise the honesty of the conversation, the tactics of formation directed to the local police and the local police, and despise the parameters of quality and the primary professional resources. You're all involved in your ratings and you know it better than you do. Euskal police and emergency academy have done a great deal of work and have grown stronger in form and professionalism. This is done with a major council approval. It is not true that he has opposed the townships; it is not only done by the petitions of the councils and of the eunuchs. The municipalities themselves, in their turn, require the same form of police profession, the necessity or the purses of making united calls. The Academy has given a brilliant answer to these demands. Ask the council if you don't, but all the councils. On the other hand, what you plan is just to back off, you want to go back to the position where all the Esscha police were not united, so that each council would re-establish a select test. It's not true, Mr. Azuga, that the councils are against it, and you don't only like to call for a policeman. You alone want the townships to set up the planning of assembling in the academy, which is neither reasonable nor impossible. Ask the councils if they don't. After all, a lot of words don't give a damn. You look at the bill as only partial and cosmetic solutions. You talk of the regulatory of various aspects of action, of control and transparency, of equality, of police formation and selection, of professional careers, specialities or extra wages, of arms and so on. A lot of words, but few reasons, for that would be more rational to make such discussions in poncienity, but you only succeed in restoring the project to avoid discussions, which has no meaning for us. With regard to Navarro, we are prepared to appreciate the proposals. The discussion wasn't over, though the press said something or other. The discussion is in progress, but the full-reliance corrections should be thrown back and you've chosen the way to the full correction. You don't want to talk about it, as I said before, the Navarre Police Law, which you push, and ours don't make quite different models. Words and excuses. It's obvious that you didn't seriously appreciate the consequences of the suspension of the law, or, worse, the consequences didn't matter. You don't like Ertzaintza, it's clear. I'm not going to turn you around any more, but think at a time about the people who make up the public police service, think about what it means to resuscitate the process of recognition of your professional career or leave job updates, such as professional risks and the disciplinary regime. And, by the way, it is not true that the professional career of the Ertzaintza is being prioritized compared to that of other sectors of the Administration, because the professional career of Osakidetza has been underway for years, since 2011, and precisely last Tuesday, if I am not mistaken, the resumption of the charges with retroactive effect was approved on 1 January 2012. Think about what it means to postpone a further parliamentary term to approve the update, which has been postponed for too long. Look, you were asking if the "zurrumurru", the announcement, the simple information about a supposed negotiation or agreement between the People's Party, the Socialist Party and us on this law is real. Look, what I'm telling you is that what's real is our will to move the law forward. What is real is our willingness to improve the public service of the police, which includes, in this case, professional career and to be done as soon as possible. You are so committed from the first moment to the last to return the project to the government... They have said so clearly, and have answered their reasons. You have summoned attendees by the name of your organization. Well, none of them, none of them responded affirmatively to the question of whether it was necessary to return the project and start with a new one. You ignore a whole process of legal reform that allows you to respond effectively to the demands of individuals and collectives who have appeared in Parliament. Most of them have demanded a new law and these people are given real expectations that this time it was the good one. And we are convinced and committed that this is going to be the good one, the third one is going to be the vanquished one. We will do so in time, so that aspects long demanded by the ertzainas can be launched without further delay. It opens up the possibility of improving the law with amendments submitted. And we're gonna do it. We are open to improving it and we are open to talking about it with all of you, but do not plant it, that is, it is not hidden from you that submitting an amendment to the whole, with a request for the return of the draft, is not the best way to position yourself to negotiate, and of course, to your amendments to the whole, would you not pretend that the partners of government, that the government would stand by and watch you return the bill? Look, you could have chosen another way, a more open way to debate, a more pragmatic way, but you have preferred the usual one. EH Bildu is there, the frontal opposition. Look, barren circumloquies on your part, that the only evidence is that you also remain trapped in your history and that your history still weighs too much on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing on the day of the answers, the representative of EH Collector, Mr. Azuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. I will begin by replying to Mr Prieto, who in the previous shift, referring to Elkarrekin Podemos said: "I will first make a mention of what Elkarrekin Podemos says and then another to Bildu depending on what he proposes." But it seems that you have not been satisfied with what I have proposed, because you have had to make innuendos, amages or demands, that is, not what I have said, but the assessment of intentions that you, perhaps, already had prepared or predestined to listen to and in order to conclude at the end that I have an animateversion to Ertzaintza, which you also say is visceral and that it is also because I have criticized some concrete operations. Mr. Itureate also hits that way and says that we're an active binomium gathering the edge and EH, and our problem, apparently, is the existence of the border. I was afraid that the end of the debate would end in a matter of mere phobias or affiliations of this parliamentarian, of what I like, of what I do not like, of what my tastes are, of what my preferences are so that I do not want to address the debate. But I do want to ask you: Is Ertzaintza yours? They pay her out of her pocket? Is that your Pretorian guard? Can I appeal to her if something happens to me? I mean, is it a public service that I, by paying taxes, can accept, can I access? Are you going to allow me? Are you going to impose it on me? Are you going to stop me? What's the matter? I don't like Ertzaintza, they say. I don't like this Ertzaintza, Mr Prieto and Mr Iturrate, I don't like how Ertzaintza is managed, I don't like how Ertzaintza is ordered, I don't like how functions and resources are determined, human and economic. Of course I think there must be a public security service, of course I do. What happens is that I don't have confidence in this one because of how it's being managed, the way it's being directed, the legal fit that you want to give it, because you don't take advantage of moments to try to do something different. I believe that this model should be transformed, but it does not even reform, beyond the anecdotal, beyond the cosmetic, what I am denouncing. The gentleman tells me I have no right to veto. Of course not, we're 18 seats. But I will be entitled, at least, to have my own political position on Ertzaintza. Mr. Prieto tells me, no, I'm disqualified for it. Mr. Iturrate grants me that right? Mr. Iturate, too, seems to take such a sacristan in some words, and every intervention tries a word. The word "circunquio esteril" was the question. But he has used another word, said he, now says he to me, now that I pretend to be in this. To have a political position is not to pretend to have a position. Baina bai hitz bat "autokonplazentzia" da eta honetaz bai zerbait esan nahi dut, because it seems that you are absolutely satisfied with the model, the management of the distribution of functions, how you are managing Ertzaintza and precisely why change. And I thought – and if you haven't done the same so far in the last round – that you are going to get me out of this OECD Organisational Development Index report for economic cooperation and development. Last day Mr. Zorrilla brought him, who gives you, seems to be, a 10 in security. Well, there's nothing more to talk about. I don't know if it's self-congratulation or complacency induced by this type of organization, which gives you a 10 in security – not the Department of Security – but that the only indicator you take as a reference is the homicide rate. Indeed, in the Basque Autonomous Community, in Araba, in Gipuzkoa and in Bizkaia, we have few homicides, 0.3, which is precisely what this index is based on. And surely there will be other factors, social, community, values such as respect, solidarity, tolerance, intolerance against crime, which also tell us what this security system should be like and what crime and crime rates we have. What is happening is that you are precisely left with that, a 10 for security, a 10 for security, something which, moreover, in this same report does not pass on an approved one on issues such as per capita income, social participation or employment policies. And to govern is to make decisions and you seem to have made a decision, which is to put all human resources, all economic resources, in favor of security and neglect other areas of government. And I was just telling them that economy is that, making decisions based on needs that are infinite, but resources that are always finite. I also want to say a few words about the union of the selection. Well, it's true that we are opposed to this process, of course, against those cases which have been put into action at Arkautin, because you have said that you will now set the third trial in motion on both sides. One of them, because he had made a vow in the elections of the local cities from the Arkau. He must send a representative from the Ark to do such a process, and he has made a vow. He has put all the plots in order to send them away, so that these proceedings may not be completed in the people, that they may have all the difficulties of choosing the constables, the constables, and the police, who may have a connection with the people. And what you want to do with this is to impose the throne of Archautius on all the townships and to do with it the right of the councils, to break the right of autonomy, to consume the personal person that comes from the Arkati. A mention of who will support this reform without reform. Indeed, PP, PSE, PNV, curious trio, incorporating the PP, which in addition to having brought in recent times the most corporate demands of the unions and which have so many times also clashed with the Council, now it seems that they become partners. Good timing with PNV and PSE, Mrs Llanos told us yesterday. It does not seem that only for this amendment as a whole, but also for the processing that will start today. It seems that also in order to be able to incorporate into the text during the parliamentary procedure the amendments which they themselves have proposed. Some unions, Mr Iturrate, are already talking about a pre-arrangement of recognition of the judicial career, pre-arrangement of ERNE and Esan with the PNV, PSE and PP. This agreement provides for the start of payment of 25%, establishes certain levels, seniority; not professional skills, not technical skills, merits, which is what comes in the law, but merely seniority to increase their pay benefits in their salaries. They have certainly done the easiest, they have certainly done the cheapest, not economically, but the cheapest in political terms, which is certainly to secure the support of the PP for these prebends, but what I think is least practical, because this law I believe is going to decanter more towards the positions of the PP. Is it a reflection of society the police we have today? Is the Ertzaintza we have today a mirror of that society? Will it be more so after this process with such a company? Gentlemen of the PNV, are you going to pass this law with those who want to subject the Ertzaintza to the command of civilian guards and national police, or is the matter already settled? The other day, Mr Erkoreka and Mr Aitor Esteban protested very strongly against this issue. I don't know if they've worked it out yet. But it gives me the impression that with the speech that Mr Iturrate made today, he not only closes the door to this amendment in its entirety, but also wants to close the door to any partial agreement. Because now, in fact, it is presented with a comfortable majority, they are comfortable and this law has already been approved. Honestly, Mr. Iturrate, did you think you could come to an agreement with EH Bildu in these terms about Ertzaintza without touching anything at all? Does absolute gatopardism change anything so that it does not change anything, without any effort of approximation? You will examine this law with those who wish to submit to the Border, the Civil Guard, and the National Police, with the friends of Jusapol. It's your choice, it's your view. We can't do any more about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. We'll take the answers turn. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u29	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Arzuaga, asked whether there was only one police model and whether there was only one way to organize the police. Indeed, there is neither a single model of police nor a single way of organizing the police. There are many models and there are many organizational systems in the world. What does exist is an organization, a model, because a public security service needs a model and an organization. That does exist. Therefore, it is not a question of asking questions in the air that do not reach anywhere. That is why I proposed to you that your amendment to the whole is full of insinuations and aspects that ultimately do not determine anything, do not specify anything because, in fact, the substance of the matter – as the PNV representative has said and I also say, as I have said in my first speech – you are actually questioning Ertzaintza itself. He doesn't like this police, he doesn't like all the things I've reflected before, and because you've also been constantly questioning her, and you've been permanently denouncing her, and you've been constantly putting her on suspicion, and you've been permanently denying her the means and resources to carry out the security function she has. Therefore, as you have done all that, it is not necessary to interpret it now, but simply to reply to it that it is reasonable that you have tabled an amendment in its entirety. The model is questioned by many. And it is true, but we have to tell the whole truths, it is true that ERNE delivered a document in this House, to all political groups, where he spoke of the police model. He made a reference, an introduction of that document to the police model, but then he unravelled the concrete proposals that as a union defending specific interests within its affiliates and the Ertzaintza as a whole he wanted to put forward. And indeed, that is a preamble; but it is not a preamble to questioning the Police Act, but rather an introduction to a number of specific aspects, which, by the way, are already part of not only the amendments tabled by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist Group, but also of the contributions contained in the amendments of the People's Party. That is, this bill, this reform of the law, is not the reform that originally came out of the council, but it is a bill that already has contributions from the unions, contributions from the associations, contributions from the municipalities, contributions from the political parties and I wonder: How much questioning can there be of a police model and a police organization in the Basque Country if it turns out that it has a very important trade union agreement or a certain trade union support, municipal support, associative support and support from a majority of political groups? What is the question of the model? Look, don't turn your obsessions into political problems in this House. Do not turn your obsessions into something we have no choice but to answer, because no, no, your obsessions are not our problem. Our problems are the real demands that are perceived from society to improve, to perfect, to better serve, to better serve from public service to citizenship. And certainly problems of coordination have come from the municipalities, problems of the development of police functions, problems have come from the agents themselves in relation to their working conditions, more demands have also come from society and the institutions from here and from here and even from Europe, on ethics and transparency in the police function. And those are the things that are being incorporated. It is not a question of responding to the obsessions of a political group. It is a matter of incorporating those things that society itself is demanding and that at a certain time there is sufficient maturity and sufficient correlation of forces to be able to put it into practice. And this is the model we're in now and this is the organization. That is to say, a model and an organisation that has the capacity to improve and that we will take advantage of it and also with a high political, social and trade union consensus, so that it can be put into effect in this House. Obviously, if we were satisfied with the police model and were completely satisfied with the police organization, we would not have brought here a bill to reform it and would not be incorporating modifications; because in the face of satisfaction, we cannot be wasting time. Two more things, very briefly president. He asked Mr Arzuaga, whether Ertzaintza is particular or whether he can also attend to it. You already know very well that you do. And besides this question I would say that it is somewhat inappropriate at this time of the week. Because your group called for amparo from the Bureau of this Parliament, it called for amparo from the Government of this Parliament. And the Bureau not only defended you against threats or supposed threats that have come before you, but also told the head of security of this house, who is ertzaina, to be put at your disposal to assist you if you need any kind of protection, to assess what happened, in the end, for all the corresponding things. Therefore, see if the Ertzaintza is yours too, that when you ask for it there you have it for what you need. And I end with only one thing that I have said before and that I think that from a political point of view is really the important thing. Security is not just a public service, and it is an objective issue, it is also a subjective issue. In order for that subjective part to develop, it is necessary that those who make the laws and those who have the public responsibility to organize that service, the political responsibility to organize that service, be credible, have an impeccable service sheet in order to be able to do so, have defended human rights in all circumstances, have been able to condemn all violence and have been able to condemn all atrocities. Hey, you still have that subject to go. I don't care if you approve of it or not, because that's your problem. But you refuse this, and therefore, of course, for subjective security, you are deeply disabled and your group is totally disabled, and for objective security, as they reject it, you are also disabled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u30	Thank you, Mr Price. Mr. Iturate, Eurate patriots, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u31	Mrs. President. Mr Arzuaga asked solemnly, asked us, asked us, if in our opinion the Ertzaintza is ours, if it belongs to us. No, you know you don't. The Ertzaintza is of this people, born of this people, of their legitimate representative institutions, and born to serve this people. What we do feel is our own. What we are committed to since its foundation, because we push it, in improving, to work for the improvement of Ertzaintza. In the defense of the Ertzaintza, in the worst moments, when they were killed, when they were persecuted, when they were tried to burn alive or burned alive in their vans. Of course, the Ertzaintza is not the property of the PNV, but the PNV is firmly committed from the outset to the defence of the Ertzaintza as the police owning this country, as an integral police, as a civilian police, as a police committed to human rights. That's what Ertzaintza is and that's what we're always proud of, and trying to improve it. May one day you repeat these same words in the rostrum! Can you avail yourself of your services? Of course, he already knows and he has, and he has recently done so. So, rhetorical questions less. Look, he accuses us again of complacency and pulls out a report. My colleague, Mr Zorrilla, referred in committee to the OECD, which places us with a 10 in safety. If the OECD report... because, of course, the report is from the OECD, it is not from Sabin Etxea, Joseba Aurrekoetxea has not done so. If he had done so, he would understand that he would accuse us of complacency, but an OECD report, if he had qualified us with a four, with a three, you would have come to accuse the government of inefficiency, of a lack of commitment to security. As you give a 10 and we mention it, we are self-complacent. In any case, that will be better than the model you put forward, the Scottish, to which you referred, when Glasgow is one of the European cities with the highest crime rate, for example. I don't know, check a little bit about self-congratulation, about the manual of repeated words that serve everything. Look, with regard to the Arkauti Academy, it's that obviously you can have your opinion, but it's that you have your opinion and your obsessions, and it's that your obsessions... It's like scratching the varnish that jumps and comes out of the paint below. You have obsessions with Ertzaintza and Arkauti and everything that surrounds Ertzaintza. And, of course, it seems bad to you that the municipalities voluntarily resort to the Arkauti Academy to carry out the selection and training processes, but it does not seem bad to you that the municipal police, that the municipalities resort to the VATP, which is also the government, to do the same work. It's just that the problem isn't... Legitimacy is not given to those who appeal or not, but to those who appeal, if the person who makes the selection, that formative process, is a mayor of Euskal Herria Bildu, then he must be legitimized to do so with the VATP, and not if everyone else does. Look, again insisting on the lack of legitimacy of the groups that we support the Government, of negotiating with the People's Party the reform of the Police Act, I think, is that it takes a lot of courage. That is to say, it turns out that those gentlemen who today are right to pose as the representatives of Jusapol in Parliament and who appear to be dirty of everything they touch and, therefore, if we agree with them this law is qualified as an example of the law of the right, of the law of the police, etc., etc., those votes do not serve to pass the law, but do they do serve to return the bill? Because you didn't just talk to the People's Party before to make sure the project was back. You proposed to the People's Party a specific strategy of cutting the law, in case they were not willing, if it did not suit them, because you were willing to cut it so that a law, which referred to improvements, to police officers, could take action, and in the rest, we will give the government a wink. Is that what Jusapol's friends are for? Look at you, for a lot of scenification, for a lot of imposture, for a lot of exaggeration, for a lot of screaming you do here, you with those gentlemen you despised in front of us, with those gentlemen you tried to negotiate, to the extreme of proposing to cut the law so that it would be returned to the government, so that it could inflict a defeat on the government. Look, you end up asking if Ertzaintza is a reflection of this society. Yes, absolutely yes, and if it is going to be more with this law, of course it is, absolutely yes, much more, because it is going to have more controls and more transparency, because it is going to promote more equality between men and women, because it is going to promote more linguistic normalization, among many other reasons. But you want to prevent the Ertzaintza from continuing to have the prestige that it has so far and to continue to improve that prestige because, as I told you at the end of my speech, in its history it continues to weigh too much on you. It's time for you to shake her up now. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. As we're leaving the vote for later, we're going to vote now. Basque Popular, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. The truth is that, without having intervened yet, and come on, the People's Party has been the centrepiece of this debate. Well, first of all and starting to intervene, I want to welcome the Ertzaintza unions who are here today. For our group they are always welcome, for our group their presence is not object of provocation, but of satisfaction, because they are in their home. My appreciation also goes to all the security forces, all of them, but that I am now focusing on those who are here. Thanks to all the Ertzaintza unions, to ERNE, to ESAN to Euspel, to SIPE, to ELA, to the local police unions, to the association of sheriffs, to all the agents who have helped us both in the appearances and in meetings that we have had with contributions to improve this law. But above all, I would like to thank you for your daily work in defence of our rights and freedoms, for your work in ensuring public order and security, because that security that has been exposed here in abstract, that security in abstract does not exist, that security has a name and surname, that security is given every day by men and women who are on the street, sometimes suffering aggressions, suffering a lot to give security to citizens. Because without agents there would be no security. From the People's Party we are very grateful to all the forces, to the Ertzaintza, to the local police, to the sheriffs and I believe that no one can doubt the commitment of the People's Party to the Ertzaintza. No one. We have voted no to the amendments in their entirety for a number of reasons. Firstly, because we want the procedure to continue, because we believe that the amendment of the law is necessary, that this fifth amendment of the Police Act is necessary. It is an amendment which, as has been said here, has been tried on many occasions, on many occasions, in various legislatures, and which has not been possible for different reasons, but which in all of them we considered necessary reform. Not any reform, and that is why we have tabled amendments, but the law was necessary. But also, not only do we consider the law to be necessary. Democracy. Democracy is not to sit here and proclaim that one is a Democrat, no; democracy is to listen to the citizenry and, in this case, to listen to those who are most affected by this law and all of them, or virtually all of them, some with more nuanced than others, but all of them want this law to come forward, they don't want this law to come back. But not just because, as has been said here, or because of some of the amendments, not because of the issue of career, but because it introduces a number of issues that need to be updated, and aspects that are considered obsolete need to be updated. The proposers of the amendments in their entirety want the law to be reversed in order, in theory, to present a new, complete law, which, moreover, in our opinion, if not necessary, would delay matters whose regulation, on the other hand, is necessary and which need to be updated. We have also voted against the content of the amendments themselves as a whole, because the amendments as a whole speak of the model. We agree with the model of what our police are, a nearby police force, a nearby police force, a constitutional police force. And they are statutoryly entrusted with the defence of rights and freedoms, and for that purpose, and when necessary, it is the only one authorized for the proportionate use of force, which is what some do not like. Some do not pretend to have police, I don't know what they want, but the police don't, they don't like and they don't like Ertzaintza, and they pretend to have a model that has nothing to do with it. What is quite different is the application of this model, which is what I believe the unions have often referred to on many occasions, in which the application of the model, the police organization subject to that model, is much better. We have said this on many occasions, we have denounced it on many occasions and we will continue to do so whenever necessary. They are intended to be included in the amendment to the EH Bildu issues that are not the subject of the same, such as ratios, tactics, interventions, or is intended to include the regulation of public security, when regulated in a parallel law, that if it is to be reformed, its reform will have to be proposed, but without having to include it in this Police Act. And then, in the amendment of EH Bildu – yes, this group also has to say, and that's why we voted against –, there are or are clearly seen those sick obsessions and the animating that the proponents have about Ertzaintza and the rest of the state security forces, because they speak in the amendment that the law should talk about the withdrawal of the National Police and the Civil Guard. It cannot, nor should it, because both bodies are here in their own right, because they perform functions that they have constitutionally recognized. And speaking in the committee on control and transparency... – that we also have proposals to modify it – but what he wants is to slide that idea, that idea that already comes to be, as I say, something sick, torture, that our police torture. Well, I have to say that not a single conviction, not a single conviction, has had Ertzaintza for a case of torture. That's right, 15 ertzainas have been killed, 27 attacks have been carried out and 1,300 actions of kale borroka have been carried out. Clearly, with your amendment, what you can see is that that animation that has always had Ertzaintza, EH Bildu is still with her. And with regard to Podemos, we believe that your amendment, forgive me, but it seems more like a sociological essay than an amendment, with that concept that you here too today have slipped from human security. And it also comes to say that a new model is needed, but it does not even approach what would be the characteristics of that model. As to whether a complete law is necessary, we have already said so. As we say, the law has to follow suit. It includes important aspects that need to be modified, that need to be updated. Not only the professional career; read our 57 partial amendments and you will see that they not only include the professional career, but the professional career as well. Professional career too. Or what, that the ertzainas aren't workers? What happens, that when the rest of the civil servants are defended, we are filled with rights, with the right to a professional career of the civil servants, with their remuneration, because we here have received other unions that are not present in the Ertzaintza, who tell us about the demands... What's the matter, that ertzainas don't have the right to have labor claims? Aren't they workers? They are workers exactly the same as the rest and that is why they also have their rights, which they want to be recognized. And therefore, that this law recognizes the professional career, which not only takes into account old age, but also other issues, seems to me to be entirely appropriate. There is now a period of agreement between all of us, although I do not know it, because, as we have seen, it seems that we will not be able to agree with anyone but the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, with whom we have spoken, because we have sought the agreement. Because when someone wants to agree it shows willingness to agree. And we, from the very first moment, when we talked to the Nationalist Party and when we talked to the Socialist Party, told him that we were willing to agree to move this law forward. Us. That's a deal. That's a deal. Why? Because we consider it convenient, because we are a responsible party, which puts the interests of citizens ahead. And it might have been easier...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u34	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u35	...to support these amendments in their entirety today. But, of course, in our view, it would have been much less responsible, because I believe that now that the debate between all of us begins, we must get a law that is up to the professionals, our Ertzaintza, our local police and our cadre of sheriffs, and that serves to give them a better right to citizenship among all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u36	Thank you, Miss Llanos. I explained it to you, but at the third point, the seventh point will be discussed, and the seventh shall be the third. Besides that, the sixth is left for another. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group, concerning the republican values and the compromises of democracy, is that of the Eugarchians. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Mr. Hernandez, representing the Podemos team together, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u37	Okay. Firstly, thank you to the groups, because the change of agenda has been at the request of our group, for an important meeting. And now, yes, I am going to address the honourable Members with the question that we are bringing to the debate, which is a simple question: monarchy or republic. That is the debate we are having today in the Basque Parliament, when there are barely, as you know, three days to 14 April, the anniversary of the proclamation of the Second Republic. Three days for the anniversary of the proclamation of that democratic period that brought so much progress for society in matters of equality, education, culture, social justice and also in matters of self-government, among other issues. Three days for the anniversary of the proclamation of that imperfect democratic regime, which was subsequently curtailed by the military coup. But above all, we bring the monarchy or republic debate at a time of crisis of the current monarchy model that has existed since 1978. Today we do not intend to discuss the Second Republic, the war, the dictatorship, or even the transition. What we intend to discuss is an elementary issue, the debate between monarchy or republic. A debate between the two possible models of state and on which Basque citizenship has an opinion and on which the Basque Parliament could therefore express itself. We intend to speak of monarchy or republic. A simple question and without much room for equidistance. Either you're a Republican or you're a monarch. There's no more. The times of that phrase, which you will know, "I am not monarchical, but I am juancarist," have already disappeared, fortunately. They disappeared buried by the very conduct of the Emeritus king, who neither with the special legal protection that the Crown holds nor with the treatment of favor by the majority of the press for decades, managed to hide his unacceptable behavior, his bloodstained businesses, his ostentatious hunts and his clear positioning on the political board at the service of the oligarchy and his own particular interests. The abdication of Juan Carlos de Borbón, when the piece was no longer standing, to replace it with Philip, with his son, was the necessary face washing to save an increasingly unpopular, more useless and even corrupt monarchy. It was about saving a key institution for the maintenance of the status quo. And that happened by maintaining the form of monarchy state, an anachronistic formula that is intended to self-perpetuate over time without taking into account the opinion of the citizenry. And therefore, an anti-democratic formula, in our view. But no people, neither ours nor any other, need to be protected by someone whom no one has chosen. We want to stop being subjects, we want to participate in the democratic election of all our representatives. Democracy is also to decide the form of the state and the headship of the state, and today we have no chance of that. It makes no sense that in the 21st century the head of state is inherited by fertilization without responding to any democratic criteria. We ask for something as simple as the highest institution of the state being democratically elected by universal suffrage, so simple. This bet we make from the conviction of our republican values. For us, the republic is not just a more democratic form of state, it is. It is also a deeper way of understanding democracy from civic values, critical awareness, citizen participation and social rights. The republic for us is a new, fairer, more democratic and more egalitarian model in which human rights are fulfilled and peoples are truly sovereign, protagonists of their own destiny. The monarchy is synonymous with past and tutelage, the republic is synonymous with future and democracy. This elementary principle, the republic as a democratic state formula where all public representatives must be democratically elected by popular vote, is what we put forward in the first paragraph of our non-law proposal. We are convinced and convinced that the majority of the Basque people, the majority of the citizens of Euskadi, support this declaration of principles without doubt, although today it is incomprehensible that they may not have the majority support of the Basque Parliament. We would have been satisfied, we would have been satisfied, in fact, with the adoption of this very elementary principle in our opinion, which should be supported by those broad majorities of which we have heard so often in this Parliament. We ask, is there not a very large majority in this Parliament that supports this democratic principle? It is a principle that today, however, can be rejected by the same Parliament. There has not been in any parliamentary group the slightest intention of trying to reach agreement on this, in our view, very basic issue. Republican values unite us with a large majority of this House. I am sure that the spokesmen of the majority of groups will agree with me in this statement, and yet no group has taken the glove from the coalition that I represent so that this Parliament will today adopt a text in which to shape those republican values, even if it were a minimum agreement. We, of course, have tried. We know that we are defending different Republican models and we know that we are defending different ways to reach these Republican models. For this reason, our group has not brought an initiative that talks about the concrete republican model that the parties and people represented by our coalition Elkarrekin Podemos yearn for and defend. I have not come to speak to you today and do not do so our initiative of the third social and plurinational republic, and less of the socialist republic that I long for and for which I fight. We are aware and I am very aware that that would make it impossible for the broad agreements in this Parliament. We have not been maximalists to make our parish happy. On the contrary, we have proposed, we have brought to Parliament an initiative of democratic minimums which, in our view, is perfectly supported by the majority of groups in the House. And we have also shown our willingness to negotiate it with all the amendments that have been tabled in their entirety. And the truth is, we've come across a similar response from most groups. They would tell us: we have nothing against your initiative, but we will not reach an agreement. That is what the majority of parliamentary spokespersons have told me with different expressions. It is curious and I am quite drawn to the attention that an initiative that does not generate special rejection of exit cannot be the basis for reaching an agreement, when in other matters, starting from more diverse points, we are sometimes able to reach agreements of minimums. We don't think anyone wanted to make a deal, and we're sorry. Not wanting to reach agreement on such a diaphanous issue as the one we raised, the position in favour of the republican model vis-à-vis the monarchy model, the demand for equality before the law of every person, the demand for accountability to the legislature by the institution that currently holds the head of state, and the deletion of the articles of the Criminal Code that prevent free criticism of the monarchy institution. We therefore believe that a valuable opportunity can be missed to express ourselves as a Parliament on these issues of elementary democracy. In the same way that we think it would have been opportune to approve the realization of a specific sociometer on the perception of Basque citizenship about the Royal House, the head of state and the model of state itself, a tool to know better and without fear, what the people of our land think about these issues. And yet this issue will not see the light either, or we think it will not see the light. I offer the groups with whom I have not been able to reach an agreement, the point vote. I'll leave it there. Because we would like to know what the groups think about this proposal. As we would like to know your opinion on the other points of our initiative in which we raise the need for alleged crimes affecting the monarchy to be investigated in the courts and monitored by the legislature. It is, in our view, also a question of basic democratic principles, a question of equality before the law. Not all of us are equal before the law under this monarchy. And that cannot be allowed in a democratic state. In recent years and months there have been many news about scandals, corruption and bad exercises of the institutional role by the monarchy and the head of the state. Cases such as Urdangarin and Infanta Elena, the hunts in Botswana, the performance of the former head of the Royal House or those known as Corina's recordings have generated a serious crisis in that institution. For this reason, among other reasons, citizens are manifesting a growing disengagement from it and demand that they cease to enjoy special protection, especially when it comes to accountability to justice. It is unacceptable that from the state's intelligence services themselves material and human resources were devoted to protecting the friends of Juan Carlos de Borbón, in addition to concealing or making disappear evidentiary documents that reveal particular activities of the former head of state and his partners, whose purpose was the collection of alleged illegal commissions. This is the monarchy that really exists in our country, and to which we cannot subject with guarantees to the dictate of justice, nor to democratic control. In parallel, the Criminal Code offers more protection to the Royal House than to any other institution or citizen of the State, through the crime, for example, of insults to the Crown, an aspect that has been questioned several times by European justice, which considers that the legal systems cannot grant special protection to its most important offices. On the contrary, they must allow a wide range of criticism, as they are public institutions subject to questioning within the framework of a democracy. In that terms, the European Court of Human Rights itself was expressed last year, when it issued a judgement in which it considered that the National Court and the Constitutional Court violated article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights by sanctioning a symbolic expression of legitimate criticism of the monarchy. In a democratic state, political criticism of institutions cannot be constrained, and monarchy cannot be an exception, and in this country that happens. Political criticism is constrained and those who simply make gestures or symbolic acts of rejection of the monarchy are persecuted. Among them, some of our comrades. The very performance of the functions of headship of the state has also been the subject of controversy. And it is that in times of serious institutional, social and territorial crisis like the one we are living in, the least we could expect from that institution is for it to make a contribution to understanding. Quite contrary to the current performance of the head of state, Felipe VI, more of an arsonist than a firefighter. That is also the really existing monarchy, whose role, of course, is far from that which the PNV proposes in its amendment to the whole, to our initiative, where the jeltzales come to say that they would accept the Spanish monarchy as long as their role is to connect the state with the Basque self-government. Do we really need a monarch that no one can vote for, Mr. Latxaga? I don't think so, and I think you don't think so. That is why I do not share that part of your amendment at all. In short, the purpose of this initiative was to constructively open a political debate on a basic question on how to understand democracy, equality before the law and the free right to criticism. Because they are expressions of real and objective problems of the current head of state, of the current monarchical model that we have. And because they are part of our community's sense of citizenship. For me, the mere fact of being able to discuss this issue in this Parliament and the fact that the groups are in favour of it, is in itself a small political satisfaction. Because I believe that we are hundreds of thousands of Republicans who want to hear the political representatives and representatives speak about the republic also in the institutions. But I regret, however, that no group has been able to attempt to put the republican values that unite us, above its concrete political objectives or its concrete models. As I said earlier, we did not come here today to expose our model of concrete republic, I have not done so in the speech and our initiative does not say so. We didn't come here today to say "Gora Hirugarrena! Long live the Third Republic! We here today were content with a republican agreement of minimums, so we could say, yes, Gora Errepublika! That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u39	Thank you, President, I beg your pardon for the tone of my voice, but I have a flu process, so I will try to do it calmly and quietly. Well, Mr Hernández, as this proposal makes clear the Basque Parliament's commitment to Republican values and democracy, for I will talk about that, although what we intend to discuss here is not about that, but about a proposal to change the Constitution. Something that all the parties that we are represented here can pose, if you like, in the General Courts, where some of us have managed to open, even in the recently completed legislature, a forum for that discussion, but with which everyone gives the impression that the ears were made and did not participate. They did it there, in Madrid, and today we are told to pronounce here, in Vitoria, where we can't do it. But, well, everyone will have the opportunity, after this vote today, to work things where they have to work, which is, in this case, in the Congress of Deputies. But the debate is not about this. It's a monarchy. And in this case, as a Republican and socialist, I am also a Democrat, and the Democrats have a healthy custom, the healthier custom for coexistence: to admit the plurality of a country, the different forms that arise to organize, and to respect the covenants that are reached so that these different ways of feeling citizen are possible. And as convinced democrats and as heirs to Republican values, the socialists assumed the great agreement that made possible the present Constitution, which has fostered the stage of greater progress and social cohesion, and also that of greater decentralization, which we have never lived in Euskadi and all of Spain. And that constitutional agreement determines, among other things, that Spain is a parliamentary monarchy. And that decision, that agreement, was not exactly socialist. The monarchy, as it is collected in all historical data, has been restored with the express support of the Communist Party, with the indispensable endorsement of Basque and Catalan nationalism and with the concrete criterion of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, please note. But once this restoration is part of the coexistence agreement, the Socialist Party has taken the lead in defending this great pact and, apparently, is continuing to safeguard it against those who are committed to nullifying it from contempt and those who intend to nullify it from emptying it, from independence or from the right. Another thing is that we talk about impunity for crimes that could be committed since the exercise of any political power, be it the Crown, or from any other body. Or that the public authorities, whether the Koron or any other body, have a shield against criticism or denunciation, something that must be corrected in the Penal Code, a code that is, by the way, also amended in the Courts and not from Parliament. And that is what we say in our amendment and we are going to stick to it, because the initiative before us today seems to us to be looking more for someone to redeem himself from his past, from his own historical memory, on his role in that restoration. As Mr Hernández has already explained to us in the debate we had at the end of last year on the anniversary of the Constitution, the Communist Party has already denied everything in its time, and now it is in something else. The socialists will continue to claim, in the meantime, the great democratic vision that those who lost everything after the 36th coup d'état, the Civil War and the four decades of Francoist repression. The great vision of socialists, communists and nationalists, who knew how to see the opportunity to regain lost freedoms. And for us that was not a renunciation, it was an immense act of generosity, which we continue to claim. My group misses that vision in these current times. We miss a realistic look at what we have achieved and what we can lose, because we are seeing that the great achievements that with so much effort this society has been achieving, based on agreement between different people, are being put in jeopardy. And when the socialists talk about constitutional reform, we don't want to stay and discuss anything but the form of the head of state. We find it much more urgent to talk about the armoring of pensions, so that no government, in the heat of no short-term majority, can change the meaning of Article 50. We find it more urgent to think about the shielding of the full right to equality, not a mere statement on non-discrimination on the grounds of sex. It seems to us more urgent to shield the right to housing, which is a guiding principle and which we in Euskadi have managed to transform into subjective law, with the express will to realize that guiding principle of article 47. Look at you, I'm naming those articles of the Constitution that you, from Elkarrekin Podemos, seem to want to turn it now into a totem of presentation of the program. Well, we have to talk about all this, but there are those who prefer to cut the debate on a constitutional reform without understanding, or expressly forgetting, the value of the joint pact. That is why the PSOE, which was initially opposed, supported the text, for its global value, not only because it does not satisfy us any more one or another section, and that for us still has value. So we continue to feel proud to have been part of the achievement of that great agreement, which now seems to be denied by the heirs of the Passionary or Alberti, who were part of those constituent courts that in the 77th applauded, full of hope, when the king entered the Congress, you, your predecessors, or those who in the 78th said that if the monarchy did not hinder self-government, the form of state was secondary, as the PNV then pointed out. I do not know, because after and following this same initiative that we discussed today, the PNV did not ask for the abolition of the monarchy, neither in the City Hall of Bilbao, nor in the City Hall of Vitoria, but it did at the General Councils of Bizkaia, and today it seems that they can do so too. Socialists will be consistent in Bilbao, in Vitoria, in this Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies. Consistent with the value of the Constitution as an immense pact of coexistence between Spanish citizens and between territories, and consistent with which to reform, with consensus, as the previous one did, in all areas, in all, not only in this one, at least as those who left us this democratic country achieved four decades ago. That is why we are not going to support your proposal, although we would be prepared to accept that vote on points that you raised.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Urizar, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u41	Thank you, ma'am. In the beginning of Intervention, I should like to make it clear that we are perfectly conformable to the title of the initiative, we make republican values and democracy, and we believe that this legislature ought also to do it, but we believe that the difference, Mr. Hernández, is that perhaps not so possible, because the end is not to proclaim the Spanish republic. You say you only plan a republic, but in your proposal, in your initiative, you plan for the first place with republican models, the monarchy of the state. So he's a Spanish republic. We believe that, when we speak of the Republic in this sense, it must be that of the Basque Country, Catalonia, or Gauly, and so on. We see that in both the action and the corrections which have been introduced, a common uneasiness appears with monarchy, though the treatment be different, and I shall make a little analysis of these corrections. The privileges of monarchy, and the difficulties produced by monarchy itself, are plainly expressed in the action which Podemos has introduced together, and you plan it as a purpose or a solution, as may be allowed, the Spanish republic. Of course it's allowed, we think it's not our business to talk about it here. but the correction of PSOE does not seek the constitution of the republic. He doesn't even submit to the Republic. Mr. Pastor has here explained his republicanism, but in the proposition to which it is intended to appear the word Republic has not even appeared. Nay, I think it is a new end to cut off any thing produced by the tuphus of monarchy, in some way or another to justify monarchy. As to the correction of the EAJ, both of the frame and of the monarchy, it corrects the censure. But I agree with what Mr. Hernández said. At the end of the day you look for a piece of paper or a function to the monarchy, as it appears in it, in the setting of the whole auto-beron. And I think that gives the Crown a permit, and we think it's not acceptable to us at least. We unite with the criticism of monarchy, of course. We agree that it is an achronic, because even anti-democratic and anti-democratic, cannot otherwise be called an organization which society does not choose. We criticize him, too, because he does not fill the paper which he ought to fill theoretically, because he does not fill that paper for building bridges. This institution, which is supposed above all parties, has a clear view of the position in the eyes of the rights of nations. It is clear also that in what part a democracy or an action ought to be chosen, it is evident that the unity of Spain is prior and superior to everything else. If any action which would question this is carried on, it has clearly shown that democratic and peaceful, it will be opposed to position. If these two reasons are not sufficient, we must say that they have been the largest resorts of use since Franco's time. When he made Franco his heir, Juan Carlos had only one hand in front of him and the other behind him, and when he saw him forty years later forced to abandon himself, he was one of the greatest fortunes of Europe. How did he get it? By making him the greatest commissionist in Spain, by making him his office, or using his privileges for his own advantage. So obvious that the poor bitch was encouraged to do the same, but she didn't realize that the Constitution only protects the king, and she's somewhere else in the Bitch. I think it is sufficient to refute monarchy, and to account for republican qualities. But there's the key, in our opinion there's another key or other subject. The Spanish State has a problem with the country, it has a problem with unrecognized nations. It has been believed that in years only the Spanish nation could remove the affair, but the feeling of a nation without a State has not been reduced to the Constitution for 40 years. As a nation the proclamation of rights, liberty, and democracy, subsists, and in order to answer it, the state employs autoritism. And when it uses self-criticism before more democracies and more liberties, what is shown is weakness. 21st the century would be logical in the presence of the proclamations of more liberty, by means of democratic instruments, to give the people a promise, as the people did in Scotland, and in a natural manner without any foundation. But Spain does not answer that way, Spain in front of democracy uses "a porellos." It is said here often that the frames set should be respected, but that which has been agreed on in those frames is another thing. And if that were small, we can hear voices more and more of them, some of them, on the side of a party which is represented here, who are asking for an explicit return, to recentrate education, to dissolve the economic concert, or to set bounds to the use of the sustain. It seems that the regime of 78, which was the heir of Fancism, does not guarantee the union of the other Spain, and there are, therefore, some demands here which are more and more apparent in order to return to other times, to those times which demanded "Una, grandde y free." Let us assume, alas, that this feeling appears, in most of the parts of Spain, with different degrees, and in various ways, not clearly of a fascististic evolution, but of securing the union of Spain at all costs, even if it is to be done over democracy. It has been sold for decades on all sides of colour that we have not felt the Spanish nationality, and that we who have our own country are ungrateful and privileged. Ungrateful because we do not accept the benefits of Spanish life and the privileged ones because we escape from uniformness. Governments of different colours have tried to strengthen this feeling, both of them and of the two colored governments which have been. And that's how they've been doing since they started him. As I have often said at this stage, the opening that was sold for the transition was nothing but smoke, the letter and the spirit are not respected. We have several instances to explain how by organic laws, or by the Constitutional court, or by the want of will which governments have, they have not respected the rights belonging to this community. The last, I think, is still fresh, because we have it on us, the most transfer of our jurisdictions. In June last June we asked the socialist government to present a calendar of transfers to the remaining jurisdictions. And what we can say at this moment is that the last day of the law we may say that the two governments are negotiating four jurisdictions, four to three, fifty years later. I think it will be plain what our position is, and I assure you that the departure of the question of the Spanish state will come from the hands of a stateless nation, because we are to provoke it, which is our commitment. The means of strengthening democracies and republican values will be derived from the proclamation of republics, which is more than the time of a republic, because it is the time of republics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u43	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and good morning to all departments, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. As Mr Hernández has said, we do not deny that we have many coincidences, some coincidences, with his approaches. There are two very different issues in this debate, as Mr Hernández and I have mentioned privately, and from his initiative there is a very different double debate, in our opinion and in my opinion. Firstly, the very existence of the monarchy and the questioning of the institution itself and the legal protection it enjoys in the legal system. And then there is a second question that is much more practical, which affects what the king's conduct as head of state should be, what his rights and obligations are. That is why we must accept the status quo by giving the current situation, as it is, a good or valid one. In short, it is a matter or there are two issues here to resolve. One of democracy and the other, we would say, transparency. There is much to be said about the first question and it is not a question of going into a historic debate, for which we do not have enough time in this House; although the truth, too, is that closeness to the date of 14 April also invites us to make that historical retrospective. But the truth is that, in our view, in the 1978 Constitutional Pact there was some pact, but much more imposition. Mr. Pastor referred earlier to the generosity of the constitutional covenant. For us, it was not such generosity. In that agreement there were some matters not subject to discussion, not subject to discussion. Subjects directly imposed, from the maintenance in their posts of judges, of military and officials who had participated in the repression of the regime, to the very form of government, the indisputable, undisputed monarchy. 40 years ago the so-called constitutional pact was made, which was endorsed by the citizenry in a pack, an indissoluble and indisputable whole. The monarchy – as Mr.Urizar also said –, pointed out by the dictator as the successor, was settled and, above all, inserted in the new times through that pact. This could never be truly questioned, because it was part of that package to preserve, which had its origin in the old dictatorial regime. Thus, it was impossible to enter into an authentic discussion about the form of government. A republic would never have been accepted by factual powers. That I think is something that the common mortals today can recognize. What then was established in the hands of the people of Euscal, about 40 years ago, as a law of the monarchy of the Spanish State? 30% of the Electors of Esscals voted for this constitution, and, as I have already mentioned, there came in this package a monarchy, and could not be distinguished or impossible. We've never been part of this agreement in a great part of the Basque People, and we've confirmed it so every time we've had the opportunity. The Basque Nationalist Party today maintains the same position it held in the year 78. The PNV understands that today, like then, it does not feel committed to supporting the constitutional framework approved in the State, which obviously includes the monarchy. What is quite different is that he abides by legal imperative the rules of the game laid down in it. If the powers of the State want us to give our acquiescence to the form of government, the entire Constitution must be renegotiated, discussing and addressing the model of state itself. And that is where I somehow respond to the concern or the question raised by Mr Hernández himself. So after 40 years, it's even bigger than constitutional model integration and complicity. The Basque Nationalist Party is Republican, carries it in its DNA. The Basque Nationalist Party, on the other hand, is an exclusively Basque party. Euskadi is our homeland, our concern, our commitment, our beginning and our end. The form of state adopted in Spain is not part of our political priorities. That is also what I believe I am responding to what Mr Hernández was claiming in some way. In some ways, I would like to repeat, the form of state adopted in Spain is not part of the priority of the Basque Nationalist Party; it is not among the political priorities. However, in our idea, it is only envisaged that legitimated political representation is the product of popular will, that is, democratically expressed by the citizenry. In such a concept, there is no amparo to the dynastic succession. Then, conceptually, the PNV is not a monarchical party, but...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u44	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u45	... "Sanical sino." 21st it is logical, in order to make the formulae of the supreme representative of the whole community, that the citizens should choose from time to time who they will have their representatives. The monarchy is, at present, historical and democratic anacronism. In the 21st century, the republic seems to be the most time-bound form of state. A system in which citizens periodically choose who will represent them and who will represent the state in which they live. And on the other side, and on the second point, in respect of the second axis, and again I say of the remaining state quo In some cases, I also have to say that it is a republicanism that has occurred and that has occurred. Undoubtedly influenced by the lack of exemplaryness of the monarchy, which gave rise to the abdication of the former monarch. It has to do with those sound scandals that have been mentioned here, and those unrecommendable practices that you have mentioned, Mr Hernández. The monarchical institution must be based on the transparency, not only of its public activity, but of the finances of the Royal House and its personal heritage, as we have been required by citizenship to other powers and institutions. Nor is it understandable to the citizen that the head of State is not liable criminally or civilly, as has been interpreted as inviolability by the jurisprudence, for the personal actions he has carried out in the private sphere. It does not seem to be true the strong phrase that the former monarch uttered that justice is the same for all. That's what we agree with the various things Podemos says in his own initiative. Nevertheless, we think that the eucipators of Eukota are the best corrections introduced by the party. And, therefore, we shall only offer protection from such a correction. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. The team that hasn't run any correction, the Basque Popular, Mr. Sémper, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u47	Thank you, Madam President. It was a matter of shortness and I will try to fulfil it, but as I have continued to take notes at the beginning of the speeches by the various Members of Parliament and I hope that, despite the numerous notes, I will be able to maintain this previous commitment. Beyond the underlying political or ideological argument, already known, we are not going to deceive ourselves, we have discussed the nature of the monarchy, its suitability or not on several occasions in this House, even at this session. I've been left with two ideas that seem relevant to me. The first of these, following the intervention of Mr Hernández, when he expressed his satisfaction, because the mere fact of causing this debate satisfied him, and on the eve of the ephemeride of the Republic, of the Second Spanish Republic. Therefore, it is a reason for satisfaction that I share with you and if this debate serves you to be satisfied, Mr Hernández, for let me share that satisfaction with you, even if it is only because we share a seat or we are next door. Republican values. Really, if the republican reference values that you continually allude to... don't give them content, but those reference values that you identify as republican values are those of freedom, equality and fraternity, this could be a common space in which we could all share. Indeed, our system, our parliamentary monarchy, is a parliamentary monarchy of republican court, because those republican values are enshrined nothing more and nothing less than in Article 1 of the Spanish Constitution, when it defines our model of state as a social, democratic and legal state, and it is perhaps an adaptation to the twentieth century, already to the twenty-first century, of those values of centuries ago. It is also reassuring, Mr Hernández, that this debate does not seem to be an extremely urgent debate, not even for the proposer, when it was six months ago when this motion was proposed. And this is not a criticism, but a description of reality. Well, urgency is probably more motivated by the electoral context than by the need to debate about a monarchy or a parliamentary system of parliamentary monarchy that engulfs us and asphyxiates us as it is obvious and notorious – this is irony. And none of us here, not even these gentlemen of Bildu, let alone those of Podemos, is the system of parliamentary monarchy that stifles or asphyxiates them. Because the reality is that if we start scratching a little, seriously, rigorously, academic rigour if it fits or, in any case, with political seriousness, about the nature of our system and of the monarchy in particular, we can agree that the head of state does not dissolve the chambers, for example. He doesn't have that power. The head of state doesn't have the power to name the president of the government, for example, he doesn't. The head of state has neither the power nor the right of veto, for example, to any legislative initiative. For practical purposes, for practical and real purposes, formal and substantive, the head of the state in Spain, in our system, exercises a merely symbolic function. It's extraordinarily important, no doubt. In a country like ours, lacking or threatened in many of its symbols that unite us all and exemplify this system of coexistence in democracy, it is no less its symbolic function, but it is merely symbolic. I wonder on numerous occasions, because believe me that this is a reflection that one does, because it has a vocation to get in crisis from time to time, I wonder how our model of coexistence could improve a change of model, for example a Republican model. I honestly put it on many occasions. The advantages that this hypothetical republican model could represent in the end for the citizens, for our coexistence, for the ability to agree. And I can't find him. I think rather that it would make governance difficult, that it would make meeting difficult, and that it would probably cause shocks and blockades. In other words, I wonder, if we had a head of state, even between parties of the same color, if we had a head of state, for example, that it was Pablo Iglesias and a president of the government who was Iñigo Errejón, because you would agree with me that it would make it very difficult to live together and that it would make it very difficult to adopt agreements. If the debate is doctrinal, if the debate is doctrinal, I share with you and with someone else who has intervened here that perhaps the hereditary and vital character of the institution admits a debate with certain cracks in the twenty-first century. But if the debate is political, if the debate is political in substance and is serious, the constitutional monarchy, our parliamentary system that is coordinated with the monarchy, is a system that has given stability, undeniable, a representativeness that, even if some like it or not, represents us all and with efficiency and effectiveness, recognized even by people who are part of the political parties that today have criticized. Because Mr. Latxaga was saying something that was surprising to me. The Basque Nationalist Party looks like an anachronistic institution, the monarchy. Are historical rights anachronistic? Are historical rights anachronistic? Are they anachronistic because their origin is almost medieval, because they were sanctioned by the lord of Bizkaia, then king of Castile? Is this really the Basque Nationalist Party? Are you copying Citizens' arguments? Is it true that historical rights are also an anachronistic institution? This is truly surprising, Mr Egibar, and surely there will be an opportunity to discuss it in the self-government presentation. Then the reality, because the democratic character of the monarchy is also questioned, the reality is that there are monarchies that are fully democratic, in addition to the Spanish one. There is Holland, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and there are republics that are quite contrary to democratic regimes, I am thinking, without going further and that no one feels offended, Venezuela and North Korea, for example. I understand that some may like Venezuela more, Mr Hernández. I'm not going into North Korea for not making too much blood. I understand that some may like Venezuela much more than the United Kingdom, that Holland, that Sweden, that Norway or that Spain, that are models of coexistence, of understanding, of an institution that represents us all and that guarantees the unity of the nation, is true, that symbolizes also. But it not only symbolizes the unity of the nation. It symbolizes that social and democratic state of law, those principles, those values, I commented, as I said at the beginning and as I stated, are directly heirs of equality, freedom and fraternity, enshrined in the republican values of the French Revolution. I therefore believe that here, in the end, before what we are dealing with is not a debate on the usefulness, on anachronism, modernity, its democratic or anti-democratic character, but rather that we are dealing with an attempt to question, and this is legitimate, no doubt, as legitimate as that of others, to challenge a model, a system, which has allowed the greatest progress, the greatest stability, the greatest modernization as ever in our history, as never before in the history of Spain, and also in the history of Euskadi. A system and a model that allows, for example, today we are debating here and that you can come to this rostrum to question it, a situation that does not occur and that is not allowed in some other republics, however many republics are called. And the parliamentary monarchy will live as long as it is useful and as long as it guarantees these principles that I have just enumerated. As they well knew, among others, old communists, today questioned by the New Age Communists Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, together Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u49	Yes, I said in my previous speech that we did not intend to come today to talk about the Second Republic and not about the transition. And to Mr Pastor already explains on an earlier occasion, to the thread of a debate, that we did not bring, on the anniversary of the Constitution, what is the current position, for many years, not current three days ago, of the Communist Party on an agreement that, in fact, I said here that we signed and that I share with you that it had a part of an act of generosity, but I believe that a part of an act of generosity resulting from the correlation of forces that existed at that time. That correlation of forces is what caused some parties, not just mine, to sign that constitutional pact which, by the way, as I said, has been breaking over time, because the important issues for the left of that pact have not been fulfilled, and that is the legitimate reason why my party – which is not speaking here today, because I come on behalf of a broader coalition – has broken that pact for years. And it is not, as I said, to amend the plan to what was then done or not. That's why we didn't want to talk about the Transition, among other things, because I was born in 1978 and I have my opinion about the outcome of that process, and I don't have a magic wand to know if a different outcome would have been possible. What I have always felt deep respect for those who "absorbed" that brown. Because it's very easy to say they were wrong or they were wrong, but for that they had to have been there and I wasn't. But you, several speakers, I think you have spoken about issues that are not on our initiative, nor have we spoken about the Spanish Republic. It does not speak of our initiative of the Spanish Republic, although, in fact, my model is a plurinational republic for the whole State. But that first point of our initiative speaks of the Republican model and speaks of how it has to be a head of state. I think the group EH Bildu could be perfectly reflected in that text, referring to the republic to which you aspire, as well as other groups – mine – because it is reflected in the republic to which we aspire. The rest of the points, those that have to do with the accountability of the Royal House, also from what I have heard, as there are quite a few groups who agree with them. I do not think anyone has referred to the question of the sociometer we raised, and I would like to know your opinion. And I am grateful for Mr Pastor's offer and tone that we can vote for our initiative on points. And I hope that perhaps something can be adopted, because it is true that in a debate like this, on the Republican issue, which is very important to us, it would really have been a pity that a parliament, which I am convinced is mostly republican, and I think it is also clear from what the different groups have said, because nothing came out of it. Mr Semper says that we do not have the content of our Republican proposal. We have our republican proposal, full of content, which logically does not resemble the political proposal of the People's Party, even though they became republicans. I'm convinced. But, in fact, I already said that I was bringing here an initiative of Republican principles, an initiative sufficiently broad to be supported mostly by this Parliament. If we bring a deep content initiative here, it is very difficult to reach comprehensive agreements. The principles of equality, legality, fraternity can be understood, interpreted and implemented in different ways. Surely what you mean by equality, legality and fraternity is different from what I can understand. I do not believe that there is at present in the Spanish State that equality and that republican fraternity to which I aspire and to which our group aspires. And one of the issues, concrete, is that, that there is a head of state who is not the same as the rest of the citizens of this country. Some values, yes, heirs of the French Revolution. Remember, the first thing you did was cut off the king's head, be careful. Therefore, because we, yes, it is not a question of personal satisfaction that can be discussed here, it is not a question of personal satisfaction. I have made reference to the fact that there are hundreds of thousands of Republicans and Republicans, present today as heirs to these values of equality, legality and fraternity, and many of them as heirs of Rafael Alberti, Passionaria and Santiago Carrillo, among many other people. Political positions are evolving. Among other things, you have made reference to my party, to the Communist Party, it is a Marxist party, that the moment of your political positions is evolving or in relation to the concrete reality, which also evolves and, therefore, sometimes it is not appropriate to maintain a position if the times change. That is called dogmatism, which is something that we are not and that my broad coalition is not either. Therefore, it was not a matter of personal satisfaction. It is that there are many people in this country, and especially young people, also veterans, but young people, who are increasingly going to ask for a fully democratic model. And that goes through the republic, it goes through the republic or the republics...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u50	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u51	... But that goes through the Republican model, without a doubt, and the monarchy is not going to hold on in time. I thank Mr Pastor for his offer and I exonerate his party from moving forward in the Republican positions more decisively. I believe, if I am not mistaken, that at its last congress the young people made an attempt with an initiative and I exonerate them to move along that path, because on that path I think we find ourselves many and many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u52	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u53	I had no intention of intervening, but in the end, we will do so briefly. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Hernández for the tone of the speech, because I believe that in those terms we have to put it, but of course I also want to say to everyone that lessons of republican legitimacy to the Socialist Party are not going to give anyone, neither you nor anyone, and I want to leave it on the table. Taking advantage that we have within three days the celebration of April 14th, the anniversary of the II Republic, which as you know we continue to celebrate as the first, because it seems to us a very important historical milestone. And especially in Eibar, by the way, where it was proclaimed for the first time. In any case, just as we continue to defend republican legitimacy and republican values, we also defend the great consensus that made it possible to move from dictatorship to democracy and we are proud to do so. Here some talk about other things, about republics with k But, in any case, we have full historical and political legitimacy to defend what we are defending, with absolute honesty, and that is why we want to say again here and to claim the immense political generosity that socialists and communists especially had so that this country could have a democratic state, which some now defame but, finally, the state is democratic, although some do not like some decisions that are made. I will tell you an anecdote that reflects a little how the Socialists see it, how we have seen this situation. I will always remember a friend, a miner friend of my grandfather, a socialist miner, a Republican, who celebrated every 14th April during the dictatorship. Since it could not be done otherwise, he would not work at the mine and smoke a cigar at the door of his house. And he always remembered the Republic and that struggle they maintained, but he was the first to defend until his death the great agreements that made possible, and including the monarchy, that made possible the Constitution to end something that should never have happened in this country. Well, that old miner's spirit is the one we want to continue to claim today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The representative of EH Collector, Mr. Urizar, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u55	Mr. Sémper has spoken to us about republican flowers. And it is true that they are the most known of all the three who have consented to it, but I believe that this also has its meaning or its depth. I think that one of the republican values is that society is in the centre, and that things are made according to the decisions of society, that the crown does not need to see with the will of society. We can therefore remove the crown from these values. Respect, respect, mutual respect, is also a citizen's worth, and a republican worth. Where are the privileges introduced in the same degree of respect and mutual respect? In fact, even the Crown doesn't need to see anything about it. And even the attitude against corruption is a republican value, and the crown needs nothing to see about it. So when you say the crown has a symbolic value, I feel it, but if that's what I think is its worth, at least if it does not represent me and represent us better than appropriately, I believe that everything for a long time... Well, Mr. Pastor planned that there had been an engagement on his day, that the Republicans felt, and that there had been an engagement in their day jumping into a new pattern with the Crown. I agree with what Mr. Hernández said. The Crown has not at all filled the paper that belongs to him theoretically. So, 40 years ago, I think a 40-year-old commitment can be updated because we've seen that it has no symbolic value. At least it does not represent us and represent the majority of the Basques, and it does not represent the will or the determination of that moment. I'll tell Mr. Herndez. You pretend that it may be a republican example, or that it may be a guarantee or a guarantee for the commonwealth of Euscalus. Well, that's the way we'll find ourselves. We will find ourselves on that road, but I will tell you, we are the only ones who demand the right abolition of monarchy. Our proposal is that which alone requires the direct abolition of monarchy. So we've got it all figured out. Yeah, because that's what we're asking for. If a monarchy is to be abolished, there is a republican model. I have not so much a republican model, and in the frame of Spain, that for all the reasons I have already said, it will be a guarantee or a guarantee to the commonwealth. And, well, some people will say we're off-track, of course we're talking about other things, but hiding one thing doesn't mean it doesn't exist. And we really believe that in Spain there is no ability in the present moment to set up a democratic process, because there are no powers, because there are certain pressures, more and more, coming from the right end. Those who have been in the right, those who are going to the end, and others who are less theoretically right than they are, because these are the pressures that they make to preserve some feelings derived from Frichism. This is evident in the Spanish society at present, and unfortunately I will say that it is not expressed by a majority. This was shown on his day at the time of the President Ibarche, when the proposal of the political state had been brought to Madrid, that he had returned without any discussion, and that this would probably be the case when we assume the proposal of the new state. But we, however, will try to show you what will is. In this state, and although some do not wish to speak, it is time for the States to take a step, united, and carried on. By giving them the initiative here in Catalonia, Gaul, and all other places, because this is the only way to guarantee that there will be a truly democratic change. And we point out the commitment to it, because it's just the initiative here made, the initiative here agreed on, the national initiative... and for this purpose we again stretch out our hand. This is the only way we can get on our way to the Esscal Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u57	Yes, good noon again, all of you. Well, in replying to the different groups, first of all, in response to the People's Party, Mr Semper today coined a new term, the republican monarchy, which is an oxymoron, and I think it has no place in the encyclopedias of political science. Look, Mr. Semper, you and the spokesmen of your group and your political party have repeatedly praised the goodness and good doing of the monarch, his great preparation and his exemplary life, in some way. If such exemplary is presented to Philip VI I am sure that he would gain from the street an election to the head of the state, an election to be called to the head of the state. We just have to encourage him to show up. But the exemplary life of the monarch – of this monarch – would contrast with those of some of his predecessors, who have not exactly led a very exemplary life. The history of Spain is full of incompetent monarchs, irresponsible monarchs and immoral monarchs. And you know it. What should be done in these cases? That is, to hold him stoically until that despicable monarch dies, or to force him to withdraw, to force him to abdicate? What should be done in that case? How do you address that question? In our view, the monarchy, I have said it before and I repeat it again, is a historical and democratic anachronism. And don't mix it with historical rights. You've done it, you've mixed it with historical rights, which somehow... for to what right is the establishment of a monarchy attributed to divine law? What are you appealing to? To the divine right, by which monarchies were established at the time? They have absolutely nothing to do with historical rights with what you are commenting on. I repeat again that for us it is a historical anachronism. King Faruq of Egypt predicted this shortly before he was overthrown and said that in the future there will be only five kings in the world, the four of the deck and the queen of England. With this, for that moment I think it is not far from happening. To what Elkarrekin Podemos said, I had to say a couple of things and also to EH Bildu, of course, in part. They advocate simply, a little bit for the abolition of the monarchy in Spain. It is a simplistic argument that requires some shade in our judgment. Nor to us a Spanish republic Jacobina, I tell you now, arranges a great deal for us. For us, our relationship with the State must be taken into account, its constitutional link, where appropriate, and the political legal framework. We believe that it is somewhat simplistic for us to equate the goodness of that federal democracy with the federal republic and the democratic territorial rights of all, including the Basques, of course. In any case, whether it be a monarchy or a republic, the Spanish State must respond to the aspirations of the different nations that make up the Spanish State, starting with their recognition. In the Basque case, this claim has a differential fact protected by historical rights, Mr Semper, which come from the old outlaws and from the will of the citizen to this day. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Basque Popular, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u59	Eskerrik asko president andrea. To end this exciting debate. I understand that it has been a lapse, Mr Hernández, it is not legality, equality and fraternity, but it is freedom, equality and fraternity. Values that are fortunately collected and enshrined in our Constitution. Values that are obviously republican, but that have spread and been internalized by modern democracies, regardless of the system and model by which they have chosen to coexist and to equip themselves with norms, and to represent the State. But those values are those that have obviously permeated the West, after the French Revolution, at least the societies that are called modern. And that is why our Constitution, I insist, because this seems relevant to me, sanctions that Spain is constituted in a social and democratic state of law. Something else can be said, but the facts deny to anyone who wants to bring down this idea which is anchored in our constitutional principles and which also inspires the whole legal system, however much some are committed to dismantling it and to saying otherwise. And it is not true, Mr Hernández, that a fully democratic model, I quote, passes through the republic; it is not true, it is radically false or at least it is an interested falsehood, because there are numerous examples that deny what you have just said. Is the United Kingdom not fully democratic? Isn't Norway? Isn't Sweden? Isn't it Holland? Are you really coming to this rostrum to defend this? And Mr. Urizar to justify – which is not necessary at this stage of the film, Mr. Urizar –, to justify his animadversion, not only to the crown, but to what Spain means, anything that smells of Spain, says that they do not represent him, but that they represent nothing to you, except yourselves. They are not represented by this Parliament. Because I have some memory. This Parliament was called the Basque Parliament, because it does not represent the great Euskal Herria. This is what we all remember. It does not represent them the lehendakari, it does not represent them the lehendakari, because it is the lehendakari of a strangled Euskadi. How will the king represent you? And to finish with Mr. Latxaga, I have tried to reflect aloud, believe me to reflect aloud. The same argument about Republican values is what I wanted to explain to you, because I think we can get a little out of the obvious and predictable, that our system is a parliamentary monarchy, republican in that sense. And you're scaring me that this doesn't appear in any law manual. Obviously not. We are not reproducing as parrots any law or policy manual, we are parliamentary. Nor does the right to decide appear anywhere, and you do not fall out of your mouth. Nor can the right of self-determination be applied to the Basque country, and you – now less so, now you are already these gentlemen – have also defended the right of self-determination, when you have no place in Euskadi. And of course it is the same, because his argument of anachronism, with that same argument, applies to historical rights. In fact, it is the argument that uses those political formations that attack our outlaw regime, its anachronism. Or is it that Isabel La Católica when she was passing through Amorebieta, to go to Gernika to punish the outsides, is this not today anachronistic? Are you really defending this? This is an extraordinarily dangerous argument for our outside institutions, for the very origin of what justifies us being here today, our forality and historical rights. Who sanctioned the outlaws, God? Sabino Arana, who came centuries later? Or was he a Spanish monarch? Who sanctioned outside rights and who has given a letter of nature to our historical rights rather than the Spanish monarchy? But what are you talking about when you talk about anachronism? Are those really the arguments? They seem extraordinarily poor to me, besides being dangerous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u60	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Forth point on the theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the legislatures of the Maddalen Irina KH Collector, closes EAE the political states of the Spanish State. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the proposed team, Mrs. Irart, is your word, to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u61	Thank you, Mrs. President. We've heard a lot of things before, and for a few moments it's not such a serious situation as to laugh. And in this serious situation, I think we can't ignore it, because we can't get our heads into the hole like ostriches, because we wouldn't be on the level of the trust that the people have in us if we did so. This people, accustomed to the attacks and attacks during centuries, deserves something more than a folded arm and waiting. Therefore this motion is brought to this whole assembly, in the Spanish State, at the moment when Araba, Bikaia, and the citizens of Gipula, is about to open a new scene, that we shall not refuse our strong will to live with dignity, our future will to decide. And that's why we made a deal with the Jestric Party in this sense. So far as we're Basque and part of the Basque People, we want to walk the world without asking permission. That we want to rule ourselves, independent and independent. That we don't always want to beg for anything but when it's convenient. I dare say more, in the presence of those who give us only when there is need, we do not want to beg. This has hitherto been, as is empirically proved, one or the other in Spain. After three weeks of interaction, when I asked for leadership in front of the future, the president offered his management, offered just a rundown. And, according to EH Collect, it's not enough at all. When I asked him to face the future, he offered to overcome the current waves. And that way we'll spend 40 more years, we'll spend them, and we'll get our strength and energy dried up, because that's what I think most people want, we'll waste our energy and energy. In view of the reasonable request, in my view, to take over, this Government offers 40 more years of the same at this stage, in which it is necessary to reach agreements. There we absolutely agree. What we cannot accept as a people is to follow another 40 years having to ask permission from Madrid even to establish things that I always tell you, the working hours of our public workers, having to ask permission to hire more teachers or more doctors. This model of servility, of submission, is not the model that Euskal Herria of the 21st century needs. Since three weeks ago, I've been asking M.M.M., the evolutionist atmosphere that lives in the Spanish State has only made it worse. There are almost all civil and political rights in the object. And don't be fooled, it's not just Vox. The rights of the Basques are ready to increase the rights of language in the popular Partu Popular and Ciudadans. They are ready to overturn the educational system, and to turn the Spanish Constitution into a new doctrine of school. It's said before, my colleague Jole's Arzuga said it, but I'll repeat it. Bordering and Foru-guarding, ready to submit to the Spanish police and the Civil Guard, as if they weren't in enough control before, to destroy the Convention and the concert. The reason, the true reason, the reason we have endured for many years, is the same reason: State reason. The Basque Country is not a free country, it's a conquered town. He may be avenged, but he is not a conquered people. Madrid wants us to be a guy and we're off until that scheme doesn't change. And this is what the majority of this people chooses to change the scheme. I said three weeks ago that the altar of Spanish unity demands more and more sacrifices, and now we see Pedro Sánchez using that slogan of "No is no", that motto that enthused many socialist militants, that motto that led Sánchez himself to the general secretariat of his party after having been defended. For now we see him using that motto on the altar of the homeland to say that there will be no independence, that there will be no right of self-determination, that "it is not no". I believe that this was not what their militants supported, which, above and beyond the established powers, the Spanish tactical powers, served the General Secretariat. Look, I don't think so. Instead of being a statesman able to attend to what is happening in Europe, to have the democratic capacity to ask citizens, he says no, his answer is no. We'll probably see worse and bigger. He hesitates and doubts, then half embarrassed is a degree of agreement, and, in the end, almost unawares, fascism can catch him. Let them not hope for us, for the Basque Country has never yielded. Look, a month ago, on the day of Bermeon's Navy, and in the past years we don't get any more messages: Not to give up against fascism, to take the witness by force. This is repeated by posterity to the four winds, as the majority of this people do. This is why I bring to this parliament, and have agreed with the Jedibetian party of Euco, because I think that it is necessary for the representatives of this people to proclaim at the crossroads that we are the representatives of this people, the representatives of that country, the representatives of that country, we are the representatives of this country, are the representatives of a part of this people, and that there is a people who does not wish to live under any other dominion, as well as the rest of Europe and the rest of the world, and who desire to be in direct communication with them: Culturals, commercials, socials, scientific, any kind of thing in the same rank. That is to say, as other states do, the solidarity and social justice of all men, a people which is evidently intended to build the future by itself. So I'm going to insist on it again, and I'm going to mention the words of Angela Davis three weeks ago, saying that feminism is against the oppression that is made for the genus, the strategy to resist racialism and fascism, because it seems to me extraordinary to me to be the involutation that is drawn from Spain. And to-day I would like to add others: "It is not hatred, it is love we owe ourselves." They're the words of the Beninction Divour. And therefore he insists on the change of relations with the Spanish State, that it cannot be a bond of servitude, because the Basque Country is a nation, and has a right to determine its future. To make it clear that in Spain what lies in the government there. And it is also necessary that the conditions which are directly prejudicial to us should immediately be subverted if we wish to be a civil relation. And in the middle, if you read, they are, on the one hand, taken up, either by the state of the prisoners or by the rights of workers, or by attacks against the education system, or by the liberty of expression. You've got all those picked up. For one-sided, one-sided attitude, is that of the state, which belongs to the state of Spain, and only to the state. This will be a clear message, because it is a clear message from a large majority of the Basque People over the interests of either party, without asking any one what side it belongs to. Because if we don't move, we're gonna back down, because we're retreating. When I say that we have to act as a country, I say this because I, as a Basque citizen, feel pained to see when the Lehendakari Barkos is none, when the Sánchez Government announces that it will transfer the traffic skills and then we have to attend several different blackmails. To me, as a Basque citizen, even as a member and part of the first opposition party, it pains me to see that there is no lehendakari Urkullu or Mr Erkoreka – that they are not here right now – promising them 40 years late – 40 years, which is said to be soon – a few minor transfers that were to arrive in November, which were to materialize in March, but that it seems that they will materialize today or tomorrow or the past, said in passing, because they have no other remedy. that they do nothing but what is done only when they are in need and need, and that they do not observe the law. Our vision of the country's politics does not pass because the governments of Hego Euskal Herria are going badly. We want this country to go very well, to go splendidly, to go very well. We and we are women and men of this country, with sons and daughters in this country, some and some with grandchildren and grandchildren in this country, who want the best for them, who want the best for the people who choose this country to live with us and with us. We want the best for all the men and women who live in this country. That is why we are puzzled that before so much contempt, before so much mockery, before so much blackmail, the attitude is to say that in the coming years, well, we will continue with the same strategy. That can't be. The relationships with the Spanish state must be changed from top to bottom, and if we don't go to the same relationship, we're not going anywhere. We need a model that will leave all the impeachments and humiliations aside. This law of the Eusucians has already agreed upon the strength of a very large majority, and this is the way in which we make our way together, in order that the consent may be more and more extensive. I have said more than once that this is what the Basque People want, without disdaining the consent to be more and more extensive, and still less to give right to any one, believing in the worth of democracy and believing in the value of the democracy, building solid majoritys of democracy, building morning or later a democratic wave of influence over the exposure. I said three weeks ago that Spain would not be democratized on its own, that Spain has failed, that it is a state that has failed and will lead us into political, social, economics. I'm not going to mention the economic facts that I spent last week talking about, in any case, these interesting economic data. And it is in the power of the men and women of this people that this should not happen and in a certain degree of our power that we represent them. So, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, we've, as I have said, signed the middle-class contract with the Jelt Party and the Basque Country and I'm asking you to vote for it. I ask you to vote on the side because it contains only a few democratic minoritys, reasonable ones. This is not the victory of one party, or of one party, or of another. This, as I say, is simply to admit some democratic principles. It's realistic that we can survive this, and it's the result of a majority we've made among all of us. Let us give this people a breath, as Orix said; but let us set in motion the instruments which we have, not only to continue, but to remain; let us give the bellows, which Orxes said, "Let us labour and fight for a free people." Instead of having crossed arms, with the arms of the next one in a strong chain. Thank you, Mrs. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u63	Thank you, ma'am. We are here again a few weeks ago discussing a proposition similar to a proposal which the lady brought. It was the other subject to speak of the matter as an alibi of judicial power, but at last social subjects were used to speak of it in some way. "Ademandás, you know what you're doing when you're married, you know? And the same is true of this initiative today. I think the least is the LOMCE, the least in the Mordaza Law or the labor reform. They are alibied for what really matters to Euskal Herria Bildu, which is the first point, that of the equal to equal relationship with the State and the right to decide, its monotheme. It is an initiative that is obviously explained by the electoral context, which is absolutely legitimate. But I believe that I sincerely believe that both the substantive approach and the form in which the debate is taking place are a mistake, and I believe that they are a mistake for many reasons, but I am going to stick to three, obviously based on the original proposal of Euskal Herria Bildu, since the transaction has not yet been received. First of all, he doesn't try to get worried about the Basques. The citizens around the apartment, about the employment, about the pensions, are worried about equality, and you leave them to-day, you neglect the worries of the majority, and you only use them to talk about your concerns, about the monopoly of the territory. Besides, it's not just a matter of concern, it's like it's obsession. And it's allowed to talk about it, but it can't be the only question, not the only thing that determines the discussion of the social world. As I said, of those three mistakes, the first is that it does not try to pick up the concerns of the majority of Basque citizens. Citizenship is concerned about housing, the quality of employment, pensions, equality between women and men, and today you are obviating the concerns of the majority of this country. They only use them once to talk about their concerns, the monotheme of the territorial that, if they rush me further, their concern seems to be beginning to be more an obsession. And it is a legitimate subject, but in no way can it be the only one or the one that conditions the social, Mrs Iriarte. The second, which once again in its obsession, confuses the very terms of the territorial debate. The title of the initiative itself reveals its intentions. His initiative is literally entitled: "Opportunities that close the political situation in the State". Directly they give them for lost, they give them for closed and the reason is very simple, they never thought they were open. You did not believe it because from the minute you are looking for a framework of confrontation with the State, because you also say it openly, and while some are trying to open locks, to open spaces of dialogue, like the Central Government and the Catalan Government, we are trying to promote the recognition of plurinationality, you wanted the framework of confrontation, which is where you feel comfortable. And the third is, that just one, that the desire of such a frame of confession leads you to do many political indifferences in the last month. For instance, to postpone state budgets, some of the social budgets were the most social in this history, and the social improvements of many social and extensive sectors. That's what the Basque People did in Congress. And why did he do it? Because he'd arranged some of the budgets, some social budgets, even if it's legitimate, because it doesn't have anything to do with this budget. And I speak, for instance, of the right of decisions in Catalonia. That was your bet, and you don't seem to have any intention of changing it. As the third reason stated, it is precisely that this yearning for a framework of confrontation with the State has led them in recent months to commit a whole series of political irresponsibilitys. The general budgets of the most social state of recent history have fallen, taking forward the welfare of broad social sectors. That's what Euskal Herria Bildu did at the Congress of Deputies. And he did it because he conditioned social budgets on a question, which, although legitimate, has nothing to do with budgets, such as the right to decide in Catalonia. That was their bet and they have no intention of correcting it. And today his motion should start from self-criticism with its own strategy in the last few months rather than trying to give lessons to the rest of us who were making and fighting us so that, in fact, we would be faced with a historical social milestone, that of the biggest rise in the history of the minimum wage, that of the rise in pensions, that of aid to unemployed people over 52 years of age, that of support for the self-employed, that of equality between women and men, that of so many measures that Elkarrekin Podemos took with sweat from Sánchez in Congress. And last week it was necessary to validate in the form of a decree law part of those social advances that had been prevented by the irresponsibility, in this case, of the Catalan independent parties and of Euskal Herria Bildu. And there was once again the Basque Nationalist Party playing a similar role, but also different from yours. Because they played a similar game to adapt social conditions to land. And that's a serious mistake, a very serious mistake. There was Mr. Esteban saying that one day and another, threateningly speaking, he would push these decrees to the negative, such as these decrees, which lowered the price of the rent, because it was not transferred to a highway. That's your diary, the Jeltzaan Journal in Madrid. advocacy with our right of self-interest, the right of self-service of all the Basques, and risk social rights, for example, the housing. He said that the game that the PNV has played is similar to the game you play, to condition the social for the territorial. A very serious mistake, because there was Mr. Esteban ambering with lowering the decree to lower the rental prices of housing, because there was no transfer of a highway. That is the agenda of the PNV in Madrid, to market with the right of self-government of all Basques putting the risk social rights, like that of housing. But it is that, besides, neither short nor lazy, they take out breasts. It's just that they get their chests out of having built up a decree that can benefit the rent of hundreds of thousands of families. More respect for the self-government of all Basque citizens. More respect for the right of self-government of all Basque citizens. If Bildu is obsessed with the monotheme, you believe that the self-government of our people is your exclusive heritage. And weak favor they do to our self-government by permanently turning it into a currency of exchange in Madrid for investments and for approval of budgets, weak favor. Every time they do so, our right, that of all Basques, to respect and fully comply with the Statute of Gernika loses social legitimacy and loses political legitimacy. You don't favour the right of our self-generacy if you always use it as a change policy to test Madrid's inquests and budgets, no favors. And whenever you do it, our right, of all the Basques, to be complete and respected our state, loses political and social rights. Fortunately there are other ways to defend and understand the interests of Euskadi and Elkarrekin Podemos has been shown to be an alternative, because we have a broad view of the needs and challenges of this country and we bet on transparency and the search for agreements to defend our political project also in Madrid. And that is what we have included in our amendment as a whole. It tells you very clearly, prioritizing the social, labour reform, pensions, equality between women and men, housing, refugees, promoting agreements between different people to set up a progressive and dialogueal territorial government. And plant face, plant face to hate speeches of the extreme right and right and plant face to fascism, clearly. Because yes, as the Socialist Party gentlemen have once said, I will remind you of one thing: with Vox we need a health cord, no doubt, and do not also allow the People's Party of Corruption and Involution to return, of course. But it is also necessary that you, the PSOE, do not return to the usual steps, to which Felipe González dictates, to which Susana Díaz or Rodríguez Ibarra dictates, to which Ibex dictates 35. You need to stop, stop thinking about it as an option to agree with the right that represents Citizens, let you say that with Rivera and its permanent 155 there is nothing to talk about, that with Rivera and its ultraliberalism there is no pact possible, that with Rivera and its rancio centralism and Spanishism there is no coalition of government. And it's actually that the best antidote that Basque citizenship has at its fingertips to root out, the infection of the orange virus, in this case, is to support Unido Podemos. The stronger the United We can in Congress, the harder it will be for you to look back at Citizens. And this I say to you, Socialist Party gentlemen, I also say to the PNV gentlemen, that you do not rule out any option of agreement after 28 April, regardless of all kinds of hate speech and racists that we have heard from different political forces. We've seen him hold a corrupt right-wing man named Rajoy unscrupulously. We've seen him hold the PP while he was applying 155. And no one would be surprised to see you allying with Citizens if you need to. That is why everything you say today will not have credibility, because every time you denied your pacts with the PP, the stronger was your support for Rajoy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u64	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u65	Well, first of all, thank Mr. Martinez for his advice, who knows that I listen to you all very carefully, don't you? I have a strange feeling when I come up to this rostrum today. It's like I'm in the self-government paper, where we kept a few months ago, hearing about exactly the same things. As an excuse for social rights, to actually talk about what both the PNV and Bildu are interested in, which is the issue of independence, self-determination. The social thing is the clothing that disguises the core of the issue, which really interests you and this we are going to talk about today. Now, I do want to express my thanks to you, thank you very much to Mrs Iriarte, because I have seen that you are able to find out for your own wisdom what the Socialist voters and militants think about what Pedro Sánchez is doing. I think I'm going to recommend that we forget about the primaries and call you on the phone, to make the interpretation of what we socialists think. But I think he'd be very wrong about the answer. Well, in any case, we come to this debate as if the election campaign did not begin within a few hours. It's a coincidence. We come as if in fifteen days Basque citizenship is not going to vote. As if in fifteen days' time with your vote you were not going to decide who wants you to rule in Spain, because, you vote who you vote for, that's what you're going to decide. That's what you're really going to decide. We come as if Bildu did not want this debate to precede the opening act that they are going to hold tonight. The consequence is that the right-wing and you, among others, raised your respective flags to prevent the more social budgets from prospering in a long time and that they were also going to be good for the Basques. Although they would then like to wear a clothing of credibility and solvency, they unconditionally supported the decrees that the Sánchez Government had pending. Something that, by the way, upset the Basque Nationalist Party a lot. But what you've been looking for is something else. It's nothing but a final act of pre-campaign. This is actually today's debate. That's this tailor's drawer of initiative, in which the most conspicuous social clothing is used to disguise the only thing that really interests them, which is what they call the right to decide, and which is the requirement of independence. Everything else is floral ornaments or camouflage, as you wish to call it. That and no other thing is what is under discussion, a discussion in which the socialists, of course, we will participate, although as on so many occasions, the left abertzale wants to introduce us as guests of stone, with great affection and with great kindness, it is true, Mrs Iriarte, but as if we were not Basques, as if we were from another category, as if those who also feel Spanish, we were therefore mere spectators of that weary dispute over the Pimpinela that you and the PNV keep to see who is more nationalist than who. And it turns us into a sort of spectators of that tragicomedia that you stage in this rostrum every certain time. But we participate because we will not miss the opportunity to claim the importance of the vote of each Basque, of each and every citizen of this land, to determine in what way they want the measures that affect us so much, those taken by the Government of Spain. And all the parties represented in this House, all of you, too, want to have the highest representation in the Courts to influence there everything that has an impact here. But we have different emergencies, very different, that's clear. Mrs. Iriarte, in the interpellation that gives rise to this motion, said that what was urgent was to leave Spain, that was the substrate. And I guess that's why you're going to ask for the vote for Congress and the Senate, because you want to leave Spain. You'll know. He was also alarmed by public debt, something that is surprising in a party that claims to be left-wing, because he should know that the problem is not debt, when it is intended to meet social needs. The problem is that there are these needs and the rigour in managing the economy, which is something you do not seem to want. But, finally, its emergencies are what they are, leaving Spain. And our emergencies, Mrs. Iriarte, because there are others, what we're going to do to her. We believe that those of Basque citizenship too, and that is what these elections are about, not of their own, but of Basque citizens. And since we are also Basque citizens, even if you relegate us to a second division, then finally, the Basque citizens urge them. That more than half a million Basque pensioners remind us of it every week on the streets; they want a public system that updates their income. And do you know where they want him to be armored? In the Constitution. That's where they ask him to be armored, and not to be cut and not to break the box that guarantees their pension. What is urgent for more than a million Basques, half the population, is to develop effective equality policies that break all remaining gaps, and that does not save them either from the Neanderthal policy or from the independence of Euskadi. What is urgent for tens of thousands of precarious workers in Euskadi is to update the minimum wage and fight fraud, not to condemn them to misery, and of course to be promised as a solution the independence oasis. What is urgent for those who have suffered Francoist repression and their heirs is to end the humiliation of those who despise the abandoned remains and exalt the dictator, not to be promised the independence oasis. What is urgent to all Basque citizenship without exception is that it can preserve the space of coexistence that we have managed to raise through the Statute, and that it is not to be laminated by those who have never believed in self-government or by those who defend something else very different. That is what is urgent, to strengthen a political space that allows us to channel social demands and restore dialogue as the best instrument of political action that we have been able to find to solve problems and solve differences in a society like Basque, because of course we have a difference. And what is a problem for you, which for Bildu means that it is sufficient argument to leave Spain, because for socialists it is an immense value. It is what you and I, and the PP, and the PNV and We can stand in this rostrum defending what we want, and agreeing when possible, and doing so in the terms that the laws allow us, because that is democracy, Mrs Iriarte, recognizing plurality and channeling it as in any democracy within the rules we agree. It doesn't demonize Spain. You will see that there are people in Euskadi who will vote for things you don't like, and they will be Basque votes as legitimate as those who vote for you. What we're talking about from tonight is that we all know what we're going to explain to citizens, why they have to vote and what their votes are going to serve, that's what's important. You seem to be going to explain to them what it's worth to go to Madrid to complain about having to go to Madrid. That's gonna be the argument. And we will dedicate ourselves to telling you what is really at stake, and that every vote we are given will turn to defending the interests of Basque women, Basque pensioners, Basque workers, Basque youth, self-government and coexistence for all. Whether our future is also between a government of involution or a government of progress, and that is why it is also in your interests to ensure that Pedro Sánchez is president. We are not going to fool anyone, we are not going to say that they support us to go to Madrid – although we really don't want to, as is their case – and we are not going to stir up flags or dig trenches. Euskadi received with relief and hope the time that was opened almost a year ago with the change of government. The project truncated, among others, you with your opposition to the budgets of the right and the independences played together to charge a government of progress. And we are convinced that now the Basques will not go to the polls with the contempt for Spain that Bildu distills in each of his interventions. We believe, and you will see, that you will go with much more consciousness than is at stake.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u66	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u67	Good morning, everyone. What's clear is that we're on an election gate or a full campaign. I said to Maddaler who represented the equipment: "Is it not better to let them discuss a little when the new Government is formed or enlightened? "I don't know. Well, his initiative is here, and it's obvious that everyone wants a political strategy in his own eyes. I, in a very simple way, saw what matters they speak of and touch, and considering those who have been introduced into repentance... On the one hand, the auto-organ is quoted, it's too arguable in all its phases. From this present state of things, the direction of the future, the limits, the restrictions, and the restrictions of the fundamental rights are also referred to. That it is SCRIPTLAMCE, the Law of Work Relations, or even the Human Rights, are mentioned in the case of the prisoners. And we here at least as a political position. I think that the chromatic text is divided. It is clear we've already made three or four proclamations in essence. One to fill the state today. Respect on our side, of course, is a respect for us. There are still so many hands to transfer and transfer them, of course. An opposition to the projections that have come out of it. The Popular Party gave a great testimony to the Senate resolution. And it is also evident that on the way to-day, where we are to present the present auto-gourage, we also insist on it. Social rights, economics, culture, language rights, and political rights to recover or adapt our necessary rights to this new framework of self-organization. And it's all a kind of collapse. how can you guarantee all this, why today's system hasn't guaranteed it? We even mentioned the State at the present time in a previous debate. If it were necessary to make it, or to vote, that the State, which is to perform more than our strength, would not be admitted to be the state of Istanbul Gernics. And that's the biggest proof that for 40 years it hasn't been done. Then he wouldn't have accepted. The question is, that the archment of which Mrs. Iriart has used it, and that of servitude, like beggars, and when they want it, it is true that when they feel the need of it, the government of della Rebbia, in short, are released. Why is that? Why is that? This is an historical Françoise, I think, to be considered, I do not know whether they would share the consideration of EH, which is another political formula. But the Social Party and Popular Party and Podemos have built their own statue. They have built their statues, and they have guaranteed their nationality. And here in '79 we bet for the Common-wealth, and so many political sects, and others against it. Meanwhile, the patriotic left turned to Abspentium. But what's clean is all these years from the patriotic left side. I'm going to say that from the EHG, the Stated Diary has been attacked, attacked by the intention of abolishing it, to have the greatest failure. Why? To justify another strategy. And for instance, when has the patriotic left hand begun to look kindly at the state of the Basque Alcharity or the Alteractivator, when did the patriotic left hand start to look at the state? When? When did he start looking at the Economic Convention or Navarre Convention? When? And when it's gone. And when it's gone! And that's why the debate that he's been to this morning about the edge, because it's the product of that time, so there are still distances. But when the political strategy disappears, politics takes the way, which leads you to admit reality. And all things wouldn't have been right, and they're all capable of improvement. I'm sure that's true, but that's what you have to be part of in the community and the politics. And the Jeltist Party of Eusia has not only a sufficient force or capacity for those who had built a statue of its own, but in common with the Basque Alcaria, and with the left, we need not have had so much power, because those political parties which form a statue, played on one side, and because we were in the house, homemade. That's why we didn't do it. There was no such thing as intention and decision, and the combination of forces, the gathering of forces, the sum of strength, and the assault from home. Horregatik sartzen dugu puntu bat, do not exaten den, for those of the market: "The Basque Parliament states that in order to settle a sincere culture of mutual respect and inter-institutional loyalty, which makes it impossible to violate the law and the agreements reached, and thus prevent the political use of such non-compliances...", because the history of statutory development is also a history of non-compliances. And self-government has always developed, in many phases, as you mentioned, in the approval of budgets, in the moments of investiture. Why? Because all the development was stuck. And the Basque Nationalist Party there has invested its condition, its effort, its presence in the development of those subjects that were, that had to be, not only recognized today, but fulfilled and materialized by law. So we say, for what? To avoid all this requires a new relationship, an indispensable new relationship, a new relationship model with the State based on equality, bilaterality and the pact, with the incorporation of the consequent regime or system of guarantees. That's what you're complaining about. Is it new? No, no, How many times have we discussed in the self-government paper and here? But that is the history of the Statute. In the mouth of me quiere decir, señor Martín, como responsable, claparo, you are new, and you mention the peach, these criticisms, the social rights, the social rights of the Equilt Party in the United States and in the Senate the social and economic rights have always been defended from a view of progress, either by the government, or by opposition to the position, but always in the defence of these human rights or economic rights. And all the articles that are discussed and decided in this legislature are made up of euscal agenda for the Jeltistan Party. Tell me, how many resolutions of your short life have you submitted in Congress? But what happens is why I understand that, too, this is legitimate, the nature of your political party, Podemos, is a centralist. For instance, in social enterprises they do not admit that the institutions of the Basques have their own rights. You don't accept it, no, you don't. You want us to get the planning out of the way, and you've voted against it for several times. But tell me, perhaps, I am mistaken, how many undertakings have you pushed for the purpose of self-generacy or for the interests of the Basque citizens in Madrid? To the light, that's what's going on right now, arguing here. Gero aipatzen da "models and territorial model". It is that to me, when one attends even the demonstration that has been held two weeks ago, in which from certain communities we denounce the emptying, the depopulation of Spain and manifest in Madrid, what territorial model are we talking about? When a state is setting up a model with a metropolis head that is Madrid, and only Madrid, and is depopulating everything else, or what to say in the competition field, is that the territorial model, when they are emptying their own Spain? They're depopulating. As Cayo Lara said recently – and his reference is recorded – independence is bad for the Spaniards, for the Andalusians because, of course, who pays independence? The independence of Catalonia or of Euskadi, as you say. How do we pay the PER? He says, how do we pay the PER if Catalans become independent? And the Basques, how do we pay the PER? When a Spain, a Spain such as that to which not only the European institutions, also the IMF, are saying: "Hey, they have the highest structural public deficit in Europe; two, they have a debt around the billion, equivalent to all your Gross Domestic Product; you have the drift pension system". What model are we talking about? What territorial model? Well, all this will be discussed if the election campaign is to enter into this, the political parties and, I think, at the time when, after the election, the government is to be formed by the majority. We've had a predesidency here somewhere today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u68	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u69	I must confess to you, Mrs Iriarte, that it is intellectually exhausting to repeat permanently and to attend permanently the same loop arguments in this kind of noria to which we are condemned the Basques, and specifically the parliamentarians who sit here, to hear again and again the same arguments and the same entelechias. Today, too, you have become an electoral rally because, of course, the times are running out for this and you have come, ma'am, even the very construction of your speech denotes an electoral rally, for which you have a perfect right because the Rules of Procedure of this House allow you to do so but do not cease to be intellectually exhausting. Which doesn't mean you won't have an answer because an intellectual exhaustion doesn't condition that we can answer it. Of course, and these entelequias finally achieve the goal because, in addition to there is agreement, or even though you have reached an agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party, one more in a matter like this, you achieve your main objective that is to bite Mr. Egibar in this milk, in this fight – the subconscious – in this fight that you have to see who is more nationalist, who is purer and who has done better the construction or who puts the better dookin in the construction of the great Euskal Herria. Mr. Egibar also goes out to the rostrum and tells him no, I'm still more. And look at you guys if you're late and you're bad, and then you'll come out and we'll end up talking about Txiberta. This is a well-known story. We know, the arguments are repeated and we have been in a self-government paper for years reflecting on what we are, on our navel and on what we want to be. Years you have tortured us in a self-government presentation, listening to your reflections on the right to decide and the greatness and purity of our blood and the need to illuminate a great Euskal Herria. Not happy with that, we also continue in this plenary and we have to attend without wanting to attend a meeting of EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party. Invite us and we'll see if we'll go to the ones you do in a hotel or wherever you want. And I say this with a great deal, with an intellectual tiredness, Mr Egibar, from respect, believe me, that I deserve your figure, but this is so. And I think it's all right, really. We have countless problems in this society to deal with and solve. We have the ability to do it, skills. What's left is a lot of incompetence. Last week we asked the lehendakari about the Law of Contributions, what happens, that the Law of Contributions is not renewed? What happens to a model that breaks down in Euskadi, which deprives outlaws and municipalities of opportunities? What happens to this narrow-track centralism that you impose and that prohibits resources and vetoes resources to outlaws and municipalities? Why don't you get going? What about an Education Act that has clearly become obsolete and does not respond to the needs of the 21st century and in any case to the training needs of our boys and girls? How is it possible that all the international data, all the parameters to which we are subject to at our educational level, are suspended, and it turns out that we have more than half of the legislature and this government with full capacity to legislate and this Parliament with full capacity to legislate is incapable of lighting up and presenting a bill on education, which we can discuss and offer to Basque society to face the future with more guarantees? And that's not what we're talking about. And you permanently deny yourself with the racca-racca of the right to decide and whether we have the navel bigger or smaller than our neighbor. And this will be very satisfying to you. And it's probably even useful to them electorally. But I am convinced and we are convinced that this has an expiry date and that this cabbage is going to end. The collo, for example, of Mrs Iriarte, who comes from you, I have had to take note, because it seemed to me so deja-vu Madrid wants us submissive. Let us fight for a free people, this is what we have to attend at the gates of the year 2020, in the Basque Country, in the middle of the 21st century, with the immense challenges that we face and that we are incapable of – fundamentally blaming you, because you are the power established on this earth – you are incapable of pushing forward. The ageing of the worrying population, which also challenges our welfare system. The flight of talents, the inability to attract talent as well. We are not talking about these things in this Parliament. We talk about the sex of angels and that Mrs. Iriarte feels submissive and submissive and does not live in a free village. Well, I don't know if you're submissive, you said. These are the terms of the debate in which you establish it. And why have we been, Mr. Egibar, so long, so many years in a self-government paper? Why are there supposed experts debating the bases that you have approved in solitary? Yes, Mr. Pastor, I completely agree with you. Here are ranges of vasquity. Here are some pure Basques and others who are Basques or not, it will depend on what they allow us. Because the foundations that you have approved, you begin to design and draw that dream Euskal Herria, coming down from the content already to the concrete: first and second Basques, or authentic or authentic Basques and not. This of nationals and citizens in a real innovation. This is innovation in the 21st century, in a democratic and modern society like ours. And in the end, this is the playing field, Mr Martínez, which the nationalists pose to us, in an absolutely irresponsible way. Because this is no longer a matter of nuances, it is not a question of whether one limps a little further to the right or to the left, whether one has a social model or another, it is to break the rules of the game, to break the principles of Illustration and coexistence, which are those that emanate, no doubt. We used to talk about the French Revolution, but it comes from the constitutional texts, from the bloc of constitutionality. Like Spain or other countries in our environment, they have been endowed with them. This represents the European Union, which we are going to renew its Parliament in the next elections. Here's the people worried about Vox coming, the Salvini coming... Of course we're worried about Salvini's ascent, Le Pen's ascent, pro-Brexit's ascent, Vox's ascent... And these? What do they represent? The radically contrary to the principles of the European Union, of agreement, of understanding, of the abolition of borders... They are not anchored in the principles of the European Union. Because I still have the right to speak, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u70	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, Madam Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u71	Well, Mr. Semper, you've been told from the bench, yours didn't seem like a rally to me, no. And although you have grinned and smiled, it seems to me to be a very serious issue that I am not obsessed with, Mr Martínez, but it seems very serious to me. The first thing I have to regret is your speech, and I understand that you are defending the unity of Spain, or that you are defending the unity of Spain, it seems very good to me, but what I cannot understand is that my right to my political project to be able to materialize is not to defend it. Democracy must be to listen to citizens, Mrs Llanos said earlier, for they listen to citizens. Look, if the accounts are fulfilled, Mr Semper, you are on the verge of a terrible crisis with a president, who will no doubt be questioned for having reaped the worst results in the history of your party. And, of course, corruption will have a very important bearing on it but, of course, it will also have a great deal of weight as they have managed the territorial crisis. Rajoy said that before it would break Catalonia that Spain, and Catalonia remains intact and its party is about to explode in a thousand pieces. Mr. Pastor, Basques of one category and Basques of another category is something I cannot accept. Of course, we are the second-class Basques and Basques that we cannot... Already, no longer, absolutely so, those who cannot carry forward our political rights and aspirations. And you, Mr Pastor, know perfectly well that the immobilism of the Spanish system is irresponsible, that it is absolutely irresponsible, that no democratic system can remain impassable when a large part of, for example, Catalonia, or Euskal Herria in this case, does not feel linked to Spain, and that is the case. And you know you can't look away, and you're looking away. And they're applying the 155 without any nuance with the People's Party and Citizens, and they're doing it. And they have two options. They have the option of looking at Europe and looking at countries in our environment and asking citizens; or they have the option of continuing to use the same recipe they have used so far, which has already seen that it has not produced any more results. Mr Martínez, education, freedom of speech, and we today in our medium, or I'm doing very important things in my motivation, and they're in great danger, yes, don't make a fool of themselves. And I will tell you one thing which I have told you more than once, which is this: That the rights cannot be distributed. The rights cannot be divided because we have a very long list of rights, but we have no capacity for political execution, because we cannot execute them. And what you did today with your correction was "A déde vas? a manzanas traigo, and no more than bronka in tune. And either you didn't find out or you didn't want to find out, or you didn't understand, or you didn't want to understand. For it is plain, that what we demand from hence is that we can exercise those rights. It's just that the epic center of Podemos is now in Madrid, and you'd have to explain to them why you've changed now and what you're saying. Mr. Egibar, to make a deal, what a bronka you did to me! In any case, he'd be willing to learn me all the time. I didn't spit on you, Mr. Egibar. In any case, Catalans did not have enough tools to build a state and almost have it. And here we did have enough tools to build a state. And I don't think he wanted enough. And I believe that, among other things, one of the reasons for the split between the Basque Nationalist Party and Eusko Alkartasuna was that. And now, 35 years later, we're where we are. In any case, Mr. Egiebar, I'm very happy about the agreement we made. Because I feel like we're at a crossroads, like I said. And if we do not change the paradigm, and the relation of the state to the state is not equal to the same, as I often repeat, it is not possible for us to subvert this state. That's why I'd like to ask you, reading the press this morning, because some of the words of the Euca's Jeltza Party have somehow distorted the agreement we've made, saying you've stopped the theme of the new state for the Spanish court campaign. You're not gonna make references. You say it's not a rehabilitation, and I wanted to know if it's a tank or not. And then the spokesman on your side said it should be realistic. And as I understand things, if we had been very realistic in this country, I don't know where they would have been. Well, being realistic might have made things easier. But because we haven't been realistic, because we weren't realists, we've got a university where we can learn anything about it. Because we weren't realistic, probably, we have this state that hasn't yet been executed. And maybe we have a few other things to run and maybe we have other things. What is being realistic? It is realistic to decide and determine what the people we wish to allow to be our successors. And this is a step in favour of this people, and what we have recalled is a step towards this people, I do not deny it at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u73	Well, a lot of things have been said, but as we got a direct question, I'll answer. I'm not going to mention our enterprises now, but I'm going to submit to one of them, driven together by Podemos to Congress: Protecting Guernica State in full integrity. That's what we brought to Congress. That's what we brought to Congress, or you look at the register and the books in Congress. That's also the help we've put in to fill the automatically and not to make a buck. Because in the end, you've come out here and I must hear you've always defended social rights and progressive progressions in the state. But, Mr. Egibar, two years ago, you got your budget ahead of Popular Party. And those budgets were full of cuts and budgets that refused all social rights. Please, Mr. Egibar! At that moment it was your struggle with the wall. You're coming here like the king of Ormigo, begging for motor tracks, demanding a high-speed train... But no social rights. Not just asking, but protecting the budgets that tear social rights. That's what you guys did in Madrid. But that was the surprise, too. I've been surprised to-day that I've seen you at the time of the "a torttas" election, in the past two weeks, and suddenly you've come here and come out again with that freak of phrenism and that kind of maximalism you've got a PNL between you and me. But, well, I've heard your speeches later, though I've seen them sign at once, they're still turning. So I'm relaxed. And, Mrs. Irriart, a couple of things. Well, maybe three. First of all, we haven't changed anything. Our proposals are the same, and are the same in the land. We've always put Canadian model on the table. Oseakea, you don't want to hear about the Canadian model, because your model is different from the model of the 'Bancade' and you follow that. We think it's a mistake to follow that pattern. Am I allowed? So did he. But our model is Canadian and that's what we're doing. But what you can't tell me is that our eyes are on Madrid right now, you last week have such a show of performance, performance performance. But I'll tell you something else. You see, when a process of change was being given in the state, in 2015 and 2016, you were a pessimist and you said this was impossible. And now that we must fight to stop the right hand, you say, here, as he puts it in your motion, that the chances are closed and everything is lost. And look, I'll tell you something. It is not true that it is impossible to demotize the Spanish State, that it is not possible to make the Spanish State a number of nations, and to procure the record of its nations, or to give a social rotation to that state. That's not true! That's what you want to be true. But we can, we can, and we can give that rotation to the state. The Spanish State can be reformed. But for this we must do, and we must believe that it is possible; and ye do not and ye do not believe that it can be done, and ye cannot do it. And now we think we're useful to get it. And one more thing, and the last one, I'll tell you. I wouldn't ever say that you're trying to get independence for 50 or many years, since you didn't get it, it's impossible. I'll never say that. But I'll tell you what. Although in five years we have not succeeded in democratizing the Spanish State, as you have not attained it, we will not yield. We will never yield, and we will always bet to reform the Spanish State, to democratize the manners of the nation, and to have an example of social rights and equalitys throughout Europe and all the world. A lot of thieves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u74	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor? Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u75	It's pretty boring for some of them to talk about the political history of this country. Everyone will have their own version, but I hold mine. So now I've had the right question. One, they were alert in Catalonia, woke up and started, and we were either asleep here or somehow absorbed in other things. Well, a clean test was made. Look at Catalonia from the hands of politics in the last decades, and how the autogony, the state, and the rest of them have developed. And above all, we must look out for a point of view, that only political and democratic roads have been used by catacombs, which have not broken a glass. The group had been in its time, but all those who have acted in politics were political and democratic roads, and no other way. It's a pity you can't say that in this town. The consequence of this, which has lived and suffered these different strategies in this country, is that the political delay is apparent to François and realism demanded its time. However, you ask me one more question, the state's revolt. He mentioned the subject of the state when he was talking about the monarchy this morning, and it is probable that what happened to the Ibarche will be defined here by the state, that we will go to Madrid and not take any notice of it. That's what he said. He has less faith than I do. Then the outer questions are in the right way, but either in the house or in the house itself, the mention has been correct, so it is. No, no, it was. I mean, Madrid won't mind and maybe we'll be back the other day. Well, at least let's keep a little hope. How do you vote for the status? We accept what we have accepted in power. Or did you change your mind? Who are you always asking questions as if you were our guardian? We can walk. And that's so much the way it is, you've even mentioned that during this condition of adaptation, you're going to be effective in Madrid and that you're going to be decisive. It's nice to meet you. It's nice to meet you. In fine, this is not only a profession of PNV, but as far as possible, in order that this people and the Basques should go on in general and as individuals, that is good, that is good. But as many say, "Esso es hacer el PNV o hacer del PNV." If, then, this is the case, why not unite, unite, or co-ordination more efficiently? Let's not get excited. Don't look away from me again and try and call me Monclo, if PNV fallates, "We are here! "Saying. At least keep your forms. And second, together with Podemos. You've mentioned a sense in the defense of the State. No, no, no, it was the topic you've told me about the rights of people, social rights, trash, human rights, and I told you what our position was there. And it is clear that the deputies and senators who are there by the hands of the Jelts of the Eurcan Party have not, by their own decisions, diminished or reduced human rights, social rights, or economics. The rights of the Basques have not been diminished or diminished, Sire. I'll tell you more. We now had in Parliament what you praised as the Revolution of the SMI, which, however, is the state's power, yet it may be altered by hand, considering the different reality we had here and there, that this SMI should be a Basque, and that the Euskal institutions should set down that SMI. What did Podemos vote? No, I'm not. That can't be changed manually. I mean, the only reality. the one here seems to be no different. And nothing to say about the basic income. I mean, now that we know him as RGI, he's here strong. In what other community, in the community you are engaged in, do you arrive at that? Where? Where? Look, Pablo Iglesia comes here and he's surprised. He says: "But what kind of human protection have you here? "I don't know. What are you talking about? That's the debate we've had today. And look at the future, as we say, the state that arises in Madrid, if this new period is such, it is measured by force, united by force, co-ordinated, and come to this part of the law, which every one makes to speak of, or to give account of. And we'll see if there's a way to work together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u76	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u77	Yeah, just two references. One, starting with Mr. Egibar, because it's the shortest. I'm interested in history. I didn't mean to be offensive, much less. What I intended to remember is that it is continuous and that we live in a kind of loop and of argumental and thematic nology and that one thought and had some hope that the self-government presentation would free us, at least to you, to those who are in that presentation, right?, so to circumscribe this kind of debate there and not to listen again to the same arguments Thursday after Thursday. Although it's true, Mr. Egibar, that it's working out to me... "Everybody knows the game that the Basque Nationalist Party has traditionally played," but I am surprised by many things. As, for example, in this electoral programme that I have, in the electoral programme that you present in these next elections, neither the right to decide nor the new status appears. And then, of course, it turns out that one is already at the end as it tries to look for references to which to cling in order to be able to discuss rationally. It will come back, I believe it will come back, when you consider it timely and necessary. Then we'll talk about it, if you like. There was also a phrase that coincided with Podemos and Bildu. There has before been a battle to see who is more nationalist or who is more independent and now there has been one to see who democratizes, who democratizes the most. So, of course, and Mr Martínez said, "No, it's true, we haven't been able to democratize Spain in five years." He didn't make it. He was coming to democratize. Something's worked out for them. The system that you want to subvert, because the system provides, Mr. Martinez. It proves that a boy from Vallecas can end up living in a villa with a pool. The system provides and you are a good example of that, the system provides. It is not that they have failed to democratize Spain, it is that they have not won the elections and this in democracy is a small factor to take into account in order to influence and to be able to do the things that one wants, because it has this small inconvenience and it is that it has to win. It has to win, people have to vote for it mostly, it has to form governments and, it is true, that the game is not yet over, it is true. You are at the gates, it is possible, it is not unbridled, to reach an agreement with Pedro Sánchez and govern Spain, it is true, this is true. But today, you have not been able to do so, not because Spain is not a democratic country, Mr Martínez, but because you have not won and in democracy, I insist, to win, to govern and to do certain things you have to win. But Mrs Iriarte, you regret that you have not managed to democratise Spain, really, which sounds like a macabre joke, Mrs Iriarte. Look, the only one... Yeah, well, he's said it repeatedly. And that Spain is not a democratic country or is not a democratic state. Well, it's worth the same to me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u78	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u79	Porque que EH Bildu, the abertzale left, says that Spain is not a democratic country, when you have accepted the Spanish legal system through its statutes, by complying with the rules that the legal system imposes on you and that if you had to sing the Anthem of the Legion you would have done so, it even shows that the State is relentless and that the State, even with those who, like you, represent its political tradition, represents history more, apart from the most recent black history of Euskadi, are sitting there on equal terms than others who represent and we represent – using the plural of majesty – the part of the recent history of Euskadi that is nobler in defense of the constitutional principles and freedom of all, even of your own, says a lot about this system of which you complain. Because now they will collaborate and now they will participate and now they pass decrees laws and now they show their willingness to collaborate in the governance of Spain. And this will have its consequences if we can't stop it or the citizens with their vote, rather, they can't stop it. But, Mrs. Iriarte, I'm going to ask you for humility, humility. I will ask you to show a little more sensitivity and humility when you talk about democracy and when you talk about lack of democracy. Because that bench, which politically represents that bench, has done absolutely nothing either for freedom, or for democracy, or for Euskadi. Of course, it has not, much less, done something close to what others have done. And by that, I can tell you with complete peace that the Basque People's Party has done more for Euskadi than you will ever be able to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Well, silence. The discussion's over and now we're going to vote. "On the other hand. The Moment Edurne Garcia, introduced together as members of the Podemos team, the model for sub-varying culture and sub-space work. Computing once and for all, the drawing of a meeting in the 4th of April, according to the 92.1 article of the Ruler." It was a draw in the vote of the universal corrections introduced by the Euubertist and the Sociialist Basque Society together. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we'll remake that correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u81	So it's canceled. The first point in the theme list. : "The understanding of the board of impenetrabilitys made on the compatibility condition of the Euscal Radio Central Administration candidate in the Central Administration Council. and may be so called a member of that council. A member of the board favors the judgment? Some group either favors or opposes it? Well, we'll simply vote for the resolution of the union committee. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u82	So it's unanimously accepted to the Board's discretion. After we've approved our judgment, we'll proceed to the procedure of naming the Basque Radio as a member of the national institution. In accordance with the article 234.6 of the Eusual Act, each member of the legislature is five minutes off. According to the article 96.3.b of the ruler, the choice will be made by cards. However, seeing other precedents and no alternative candidates, I propose to make the nomination without vote. Any members of the legislature object? No. So, Susana Ciacuruz Goñi, we name Madame Euskal Radio Council Member of the Country Administration Council. Second point on the subject list: "All the corrections proposed to the law project of the fifth change of the law against the Eusal Autonomy Police of Erdigo. The discussion and the vote. So, since we've finished the discussion, we'll vote for the bill that gets back to him, yes or no. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u83	So it doesn't come back to the bill. Forth point on the theme list: Moment, introduced by the members of the House of Maial Irifeen, members of the EH Collectoral Society, about the options which EAE closes to the political states of the Spanish State." After the discussion, we'll vote for EH and the Eubertarian contractors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 45; opponents 18; white ones, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u84	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposition of the law of Podemos as a parlamentary group, concerning the republican values and the compromise of democracy." Here, together, we vote as much as the Podemos team. First order. How? So we vote for 1, 2, 4 points first. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The opposites, 18; white, 0; Abstations, 45.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u85	So 1, 2, 4 points have been rejected. And next time, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 20; the contrary, 9; white, 0; Abstations, 45.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u86	So the third point is accepted. I interrupt the entire meeting until 6:30 a.m. The meeting was interrupted at nine o'clock in the afternoon. At four-thirty o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u87	We'll start the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "Momology, introduced by the members of the American laws of Carmelus Barrius Barroja Popula, concerning the occupation of pharmaceutical and professionals in the first stages of attention. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u88	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Lehendakari, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Looks like we'd lower the level. This morning we talked about the republic, we talked about the monarchy, we talked about the political situation of the Spanish state and now we are going to talk about an important issue, which are the pharmacies and their work in our society. That's right. We presented an inquiry after reading the Basque primary care strategy that the Basque Government recently adopted this year and suggested a series of political actions to be carried out. We saw that the strategy is good and that it is positive, and that we will support it, and that that strategy can be further improved, with some question, with quiet debates, with constructive debates. And that is what we wanted to put forward in this inquiry and in this motion in which, logically, we sought the agreement, we sought to continue to open up channels of participation, understanding and development of a health system, a collaborator of public health and public health, which will play an impressive role in the future of health care, which is that of the community pharmacy, that of the pharmacist and the community pharmaceutical company in our society, as it has done for so long. In that regard, we will also have the opportunity to present the strategy to the committee. The councilwoman will come to the committee, she will explain it, and we will also talk about these issues there. In this respect, we will try to contribute from our point of view, because the issue and the occasion deserve it, and the role of the community pharmacy, the pharmacy office, deserves it because of the importance it has today and it can continue to have, and that it must be revalued and revalued. Innumerable are contributions, plans, programmes, interventions by pharmacists and pharmacists, pharmacy offices, schools and pharmaceutical councils, in relation to aspects related to diseases, with follow-up in the treatment of diseases, with prevention, with advice on certain issues relating mainly to drugs and medicines, with pharmacological and pharmaceutical advice. It is very important also that first time many times – we have all been able to live in our lives – when a sick person or person with a pain, with a discomfort, a bad physical feeling, comes to the pharmacist, comes to the pharmacy and advises him, and tells him: for he urgently comes, as soon as possible, to his doctor, to his health center, go to the doctor to see him, or to put this ointment for that burn, but immediately to the health center. We have all seen that function that is essential and we were all quiet many times, when we had children, when there was a pharmacy near the place where we were at some point. We've lived it and we all certainly have an idea of that circumstance. Well, that performance of that pharmacist or pharmacist at the time, at some point in time where they say, "Well, let's try to calm this down, but immediately when I can, but well, for now...". That is pure primary care and that must be put into value. That is what we want to do with this initiative and recognizing that what we have to work for is for the agreement in that sense, because I believe that we all think something similar. That is to say, a key function of access to primary care, of monitoring primary care and of advice on medication in the treatment phases, among many other things, that they themselves, pharmacists and pharmacists, their schools, their advice, are constantly trying to develop. The actions and initiatives of these schools, of these councils, which carry out such work, are constant. The list is very extensive and above all the future is important. That future that can be expected on issues such as in other countries is, not yet here, but on issues that are on the debate, on vaccinations or other issues that are on the table. Public health control, some issues that have to do with addictions. I mean, the question is open and there we are. Community pharmacists have much to contribute to that assistance challenge in a coordinated effort. In addition, this is the fundamental element, the work coordinated with the rest of health professionals, with family doctors, of course, with their fellow pharmacists of primary or hospital care, if any, nursing professionals, psychology, social work, psychiatry... The pharmacy for its accessibility and proximity It is on many occasions, I have said it before, on many, many occasions, as a gateway to the health system, but it also offers numerous professional services, pharmaceuticals, medical care related to medicine and public health. That is a reference element. In the field of medicinal products, the services are monitored pharmacologically and pharmacotherapeutically or adherently and have provided excellent results in the research programmes that have been carried out. That's also clear. All the data and studies published in scientific journals confirm that the intervention of the pharmacist gains and generates effectiveness, increasing the results of health and efficiency by contributing to the sustainability of the health system. That is to say, they also have an essentially economic role, he and Community pharmaceuticals. And, besides, we're constantly seeing it. How they get involved in super diverse programs. That is, respiratory diseases, issues related to antibiotic resistance, skin care campaigns, that is, development in addition to administrative or collaborative issues and linking with the health system. Or the effective development, as has been the case in this country, of the electronic recipe. That is, effectiveness has been in the pharmacy offices in an essential way. Or other issues. The other day he read: "Alavesa drugstores study how they can continue to support Alzheimer's patients and their families." Well, that connection, permanent, constant, that interest in further developing on issues that have to do with diseases, issues as serious as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and how do you know, because you know patients, because they have them every day or every certain time in their offices and know how to elaborate and how to do that follow-up. Well, that's what's important, and that's primary care, too. And that, patient follow-up at that very important stage is that primary care control. And that is what we want to highlight and we have sought with this initiative. Moreover, the most important thing in line with what we are talking about is the normative or the legal. Just read article 5 of the 1994 Euskadi Health Management Act to see the close connection between the pharmacy office and primary, intimate care. Starting with his condition, as declared by law, of service, of public interest, and following in his duties, and ending with his obligations. Pure primary care. The Basque Pharmacy Act says, in honour of its markedly sanitary spirit, the Basque Pharmaceutical Organization Act says: "... it regulates the pharmacy offices, as the provider of a service of public interest, in connection with primary care." Functions: Collaboration with administration, drug information programmes, pharmacovigilance, collaboration with the Administration on quality control of drug advertising services, promotion, health prevention, rational use of medicine, health education, etc. We're talking about the same thing. Monitoring of medication and treatment of patients, that is, we are talking about issues that have essentially to do with primary care. And obligations, obligations also speaks of the law. Continued care, therefore, as in health centres, as well. The timetables determined by the health authority, emergency regime... I mean, we're talking about that. We – to conclude – read the Basque Primary Care Strategy, and drew attention to the fact that we were talking about pharmacists. But there was talk of primary care pharmacists, essentially. And there was something missing, something missing to develop. There was something missing to develop and it was the issue of community pharmacists in a more essential way, with strategy and action in that direction. From our point of view, we'll keep talking. The counselor will come to the committee. We'll talk about it. And I think it was good to put a point of attention and understand that... And we tabled a motion after the question we made to the councilwoman, and we have reached an agreement. We have reached an agreement that continues to talk about the pharmacy, and that puts it in value. It highlights it from the point of view that it recognizes the fundamental role played by community pharmacy and its professionals in health care, etc., and so on. And the Government is urged to continue to promote the model, to move forward, to deepen the development of actions to make the community pharmacy one more agent of the Basque health system. It also talks about primary care and collaboration with primary care pharmacists and further progress. You all have the initiative, the compromise amendment. I won't read it, but in any case I think it was a good time. We were talking about laws this morning, about the Police Act – was it 93?, did we say it was the police? Well, this one's 94, the one from Pharmaceutical Ordination. It may be possible to reflect on some issues. It's not that long ago either. That will certainly be postponed for other debates, but I believe that the good thing at a time like this, when we haven't talked about pharmacy in this Parliament for a long time, was to remember the pharmacists, see the relevant role that individual schools, councils and pharmacists play in their pharmacy offices and continue to support them, even in government strategies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u89	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u90	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, counselor, advisors, colleagues and parliamentary companions. Very briefly, as parliamentarian Barrio presented a non-legislative proposal on the same subject – community pharmacies – which also achieved a certain level of consensus. Elkarrekin We can clearly support the concept and reality of community pharmacies. We know his work and we know the commitment of the presidents, of the presidents of the Euskadi Pharmaceutical Colleges as a clear public service. We are not unconscious and we always find it difficult to balance the business balance between running a private company that is the pharmacy and establishing the pharmacy as a health agent, as a health agent more of the health system. There's not much to say. I'm done. Just raise two issues that I think are relevant. The first one. Osakidetza, the Department of Health and the entire health system are governed by the Euskadi Health Plan, which is in force until 2020. The Health Plan sets out the objectives, sets out the programmes, sets out the protocols and sets out the strategic lines of work. Osakidetza has its work strategy lines and the Department of Health has its work strategy lines. We do not think it would be right for the development of the community pharmacy to be complementary and collaborative with the whole health system and to develop duplications in the care processes. Therefore, the first reflection, we understand that the development of the community pharmacy is governed by the objectives of the Basque Health Plan. The second point is that when we talk about community pharmacy we know its development. In my neighbourhood, in particular, they have pioneered the whole AIDS issue, the whole issue of needle exchange, the methadone problem, the control and loyalty of tuberculosis patients, etc., etc. A very interesting work that we agree all the political groups to deepen, to develop, in collaboration with the teams of the health centers, in collaboration with the objectives of the Health Plan. We would not like a debate – but it will probably be brought by Parliamentarian Barrio soon – that is already taking place in the Com munity of Madrid, which is complicated, confusing, which is called the Community Pharmacy Act, where new functions arise, where direct benefits arise and where the liberalisation of schedules arises, among other issues. In my opinion, the complications of the debate that this law has – which is being delayed over and over again, which is not the case with this motion by parliamentarian Barrio at the moment – are an example of the fact that it cannot be bureaucratised or organised according to the interests of power groups new lines of work in the community pharmacy. The community pharmacy in Euskadi is fine, is working as a health agent, is collaborating with the strategies being developed in Osakidetza, is developing in promotion and prevention programs that the Health Plan marks and is very well collaborating even on a complicated issue, which is the whole topic of drug-therapeutic follow-up of chronic patients. Why? Because we have a problem with clinical variability or, in other words, for a disease there are no 100 drugs, there is one, or at least there is one that has proven scientific evidence. The cooperation of pharmacy agencies in the follow-up of treatments is essential, so that the market is not used as the sole criterion for dispensing medicines. We know, and I insist on this because we have spoken on several occasions with the president of the school of Bizkaia, Flavia, with the president of the school of Gipuzkoa, Gotzon, etc. – of the pharmaceutical school I mean – we know the commitment of public agents of the pharmacies in Euskadi. However, there are groups that do not agree with everything community pharmacies are doing in Euskadi in promotion, prevention, collaboration and drug-therapeutic follow-up. We've been alerting on this, that's all. The community pharmacy, its deepening, even its new roles with chronic patients and the attempt to avoid, thanks to the electronic prescription, the variability of treatments – some real garbage – for patients who need a lot of medication. The sectors of pharmaceutical schools, which are more interested in being public servants, are already on alert. And we support this motion, we support the collaboration of community pharmacies with the Osakidetza device, we support the continuation of the objectives of the Health Plan and we support new agreements and collaboration programmes between community pharmacies and Osakidetza and the Department of Health. So, pozik was born by the agreed consensus. Parliamentarian Barrio, eskerrik asko. And eskerrik asko, Kerman Orbegozo for your effort in the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u91	Thank you, Mr. Uria. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u92	Thank you, ma'am. The Chief Department, ladies and gentlemen of the congress, good afternoon. The position of EH collect has not been new to this because we've marked the accounts we're going to discuss today more than once. The combination between the chemists and the first professionals is indispensable, in our opinion, in order to accomplish the pharmaceutical pharmacist required by the patients. For instance, since the electronic recipe was started, the presence of chronic patients has been reduced to a certain amount of check in the early grades of attention, and consequently the role of the first professionals in their own time is in the hands of pharmaceuticals, because they do not need to go in search of their prescriptions, as well as the rest. On the other hand, the relationship between chemists and patients is very narrow in many cases, and the confidence among them helps the sick to carry the treatment properly. That's also mentioned by Mr Barrio when he talks about it. And we could talk about this relationship for a long time. Hence, in our opinion, the conjunction between these two compounds ought to be increased more than ever. This partnership exists long ago, which has been concluded by certain compacts. However, there's always a chance of improvement and we wanted to expand it by our correction. And why is it important to consider ways of improving this collaboration between health centres and pharmacies, the community pharmacy? Because society evolves and so requires us. Life expectancy is increasing and, as a result, chronic diseases, multipathologies and, therefore, polypharmacy are increasing. To this day, there are many problems arising from misuse of medicines, confusion in dispensations, problems with non-adherence to treatments, and problems in managing medicines at home. We believe that this situation improves with good coordination and communication between professionals, and through that good communication between professionals surely the therapeutic results will be better. But we're gonna have to admit that the health department is working with pharmaceutical officers and pharmaceutical offices since the '90s. There are, therefore, some in progress of agreements, and I shall give some examples: A Covenant to treat men who have a dependency of opae by means of their offices, to improve the use of medical treatment of people who receive the attention of home-house services, a Covenant to prevent the transmission of GIB and other sexual diseases, a program for the pharmaceutical program of the pharmaceutical and polymical tracking patients. Therefore these Covenants are but Examples. In all these words, the function of professional pharmaceutical professionals is strengthened to advise the people and to continue their health. Therefore, the line of work that is being taken is shared. In any case, as we mentioned earlier, there is always room for improvement. We largely share Mr Barrio's original initiative. But what we do not share, as he asked in his motion and today he has also explained to us in some way, is the idea that the pharmacy is integrated through concrete actions in the Primary Care Strategy. It is true that the pharmacy has always had a public function but we cannot forget that the Primary Care Strategy addresses the functions, the organization, among other issues, of the professionals of the Basque Health Service-Osakidetza. Outside this framework, it is logical and consumable that there are collaborative agreements with other areas. But, at the outset, we do not share that the pharmacists have to be included in this Strategy, even sharing that they are two attentions that are given in primary and that have direct contact with the patients. If Mr Barrio believes that a change in the law is necessary, he is in his hand and, if so, if we had time, then we would work on it. Just as that has to be the way and not precisely include it in a strategy that becomes nothing more than a plan. On the other hand, we also do not think it would be appropriate to mix the pharmacy with the Primary Strategy for another reason. Right now primary care professionals in Osakidetza are not looking forward to this Strategy. And proof of that is that tomorrow they are called to secondary strike 6,000 professionals and the 17th of May again. It is also well known that this Strategy is also not fully shared by the groups in this House and, therefore, under our view, it is not appropriate to mix agreements with disagreements on the same initiative. That's why we preferred to concentrate on the points of agreement in order to achieve a medium. And this is exactly what we worked yesterday with groups that support the government. I need to thank you for the attitude of these groups and we have to say it was very easy to get this middle-class thing. So especially to you, Mr. Orbegis, thank you. This morning, the Podemos team and Populars agree with each other, and, as we said, we'll accept it unanimously. The other spokesmen have described this medium, and as you are available in your seats, I shall not prolong it any longer. So that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u94	Thank you, President, and good afternoon. As Mrs Blanco began to say, this matter has been dealt with on different occasions in this Parliament and, in fact, in the last parliamentary term of more than one, two and three. It was a matter that was dealt with and that gave rise to much debate, and not always with an agreement as unanimous as we will have after voting on this question brought to us by Mr Barrio. In the motion we are debating today, I think we should put, as EH Bildu also said, what unites us more than what separates us, because it is true that all parliamentary groups here share the concern and the role that pharmacy and its professionals have in primary care strategies. It is true that we must not mix things up. But the fact is that the Strategy for Primary Care in Euskadi raises this issue, specifically its sixth action, which talks about addressing the functions of primary care pharmacists, incorporating into the already consolidated functions those new functions arising from the context of integrated care. At this point, the need to strengthen this issue is also recognised with the updating and homogenisation of the portfolio of services of primary care pharmacists in all OSIs, including specific indicators of drug-therapeutic follow-up. We share that it is true, that things have to be dealt with every thing in their field and what Mr Barrio proposed to us today is perhaps something more concrete. But it is true that the Primary Care Strategy already contemplates this issue. As we have already said on more than one occasion, not only in the last parliamentary term, but in this same parliamentary term, on one occasion recently in committee, we have already supported from the Socialist Group the commitment of the Department of Health for the pharmaceutical delivery model that puts the value of the community pharmacy and the integration of the pharmacy offices as one more agent of the Basque health system, in addition to coordination with the other levels of care and with the social services themselves. Of course, with regard to the amendments which the various groups of Parliament have tabled and which we were then able to agree on, we all agree on the importance of the pharmacy, its professionals and the work that is being done, its role in the quality and efficiency of the system, its involvement with the rest of the health system and, as Mr Barrio said, I do not think anyone is discussing the role of linking the role of the pharmacy with primary care. In this plenary, in this plenary of control in which Mr Barrio raises this question, we have already been told from the Government that we have been pioneers in the development of some programmes, of which Mr Uria has already told us. And, of course, we all know the number of conventions that have been signed and that demonstrate the collaboration that we all recognize today as fundamental. Therefore, recognizing the importance of the matter and wanting to highlight the points that unite us, beyond going into nuances or details that we could come to discuss today in this plenary, from the Socialist Group because to conclude the agreement reached, it is true that we are not too accustomed to achieving unanimity in health matters and, of course, I think that we should conclude this agreement. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u95	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u96	Thank you, Mrs. President and all the good afternoons. We too would like to begin our correction and, as we have begun or received it in the middle, to praise the work of the communal chemist and the paper he has, and to praise and thank him. That's how we get it in our middle-class. In fact, the activity of pharmaceuticals and his professionals is a key to our public health, which we believe to be indispensable to guarantee the quality and influence of the health system of euscal health. So the pharmacy for our team has been very important, and it will be, but for the entire health system of euscal, not only in the sphere of first attention. And here we could distinguish our point of view from what Mr. Barri did at first his planning. We believe that it is one thing to penetrate on the role of the pharmaceutical pharmaceutical, intermediary, with the other operators, and that it is another thing which has recently been published, or has recently been introduced into that strategy. I think, then, that in this sense we have finally come to agree, but that there may at first be a different opinion for this original proposition. Well, we believe that the model for pharmaceutical pharmaceutical pharmaceutical pharmaceutical industry has long taken care of the importance of the community, and that it has been urged from our institutions to integrate and co-ordination with the rest of our health agents. Yes, with first care, with pharmaceutical and hospital attention, as well as other social services, in the social field, and so on. As has been said, and Mr. Uria has done a little bit of it, because he has enumerated or mentioned a number of reports and programmes that have been developed in recent years, by the impulse of fun and other institutions, by encouraging that concert. And the head physician of the health department, in the reply of his interference, made a little more definite what these enterprises have been. Most of them are still in force. He also mentioned the intention of pursuing it, and the intention of promoting these contracts, and of extending it to other places. but I think it may be remarked, at least, that they exist, and are now in force. Therefore, the role of the Community pharmacy is fundamental to us in our health system, and we have wanted to include it in our amendment, and we have also transferred it to the compromise amendment. We want this model of collaboration and integration and coordination of the Community pharmacy with the rest of the health workers to continue to be improved in the bet that has been made so far, because we believe that this is the best way to increase or improve health care as a whole. So, the community religions and the first-seeing pharmaceuticals have to do their contribution. Tiene que ser compathicible. For tracking Farmrapy treatments, avoiding or avoiding negative impacts of treatments, in order to make the use of drugs more secure, etc. And we ask the Medical Department to penetrate into this, by means of what has been agreed or obtained, to the Medical Department. In the government program... and Mr. Uria has mentioned what that line must be, that which is contained in the Plan of Health 2013-20, must be carried on, and I believe the chief physician of the department mentioned, or explained what is recorded in the government's program. He also mentioned the commitment to the Medical Plan and the development of what's going on connected with this medical department. In this sense, then, we agree with the consideration which Mr. Uria has made. So, to conclude, we also confirm the commitment to the established example, but always, and as Mrs. Blanco has mentioned, there is space to improve, and therefore what we require is to make an attempt, or to try to improve those departments of health, those resources and programs we have today, and so on.... to deepen them, penetrate into their work, and into their integration, and to continue to improve the general health spirit. And finally, as has been said, thank you very much for the facility given to Mrs. Blanco and to all the other groups, because at last it will be unanimously accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u97	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Mr. Barrio, to answer at once.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u98	Yes, Madam President. With your permission from my seat, two very brief questions. First, thank the spokespersons. That is to say, I tabled the motion, and the amendments as a whole have been constructive and we have been able to reach agreement. Thank Mrs Red, Mr Uria, Mrs Blanco and Mr Orbegozo for their work. We'll keep talking. Indeed, it is shown that there are some issues on which we can disagree in relation to the strategic primary care document and its linkage with the pharmacy offices, the community pharmacy. The key element is what we have approved, urging the Government to work together, to coordinate, to integrate the pharmacy office with the rest of the Basque health system at all levels, including in primary care. We were certainly looking for this, we were looking for this step. I mean, a document is a document, a plan can be a plan. If there are some things missing, we did require some line or strategy, but in any case, we are in line with this statement, and what we will do is continue to work. Sometimes the plans or documents are developed not with everyone in agreement, but they can be developed and worked on, and the fundamental thing was what we were pursuing, and we have succeeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u99	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The others? Mr. Uria? Anyone else? No? So I'll ring the bell. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Basque populars, the Basque Socialists, together the Podemos, the EH Collectors, and the half-correction that the Eusbertarians have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u100	So, unanimously, the correction of the half-path has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Pick up the proposition as a parlamentary group, concerning the new plan of impact against the youth against the prevarication." That's removed. I'm sorry. Third point in theme list: "Motion, Joseph Ramone Becerlo Carolo, introduced together as a member of the Podemos team, was encouraging politics against climate change. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Becerra, to introduce and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u101	Thank you, Mr. President, President, chief of departments, all members of the legislature, good afternoon. When a subject is important, there is no need to explain it too much and, therefore, I will not waste much time explaining this issue. We are facing unprecedented change in the history of humanity. This is not what I say, as scientists say, and I therefore believe it is worth spending even one hour of our time in this Parliament. When I interviewed the lehendakari two Fridays ago on this issue, I started with a quote from Greta Thunberg, the Swedish girl who has meant herself as one of the leaders of the youth movement who is trying to awaken our consciences on this issue. She said we can't solve a crisis without treating it as a crisis, and this, climate change, basically is what it is, a climate crisis. It is a crisis that, however, is a very different challenge from those usually faced by governments, which we usually have to face in political spaces like this Parliament. It is a political challenge, but it is also an economic challenge and it is also a social challenge. And, besides, it has the particularity that being a global problem, you really have to face it at local level, without looking at what is done on the other side of the border. Euskadin, we're used to defy these challenges, and we have the opportunity to be an example in the battle of climate change. To model our commitment to climate change and to fulfill our work, to ensure a permanent, fair, and solid future. For this, and as it is a challenge of all of us, our self-generacy, if we have the opportunity to use the tools of our self-generacy and we have to do so. The tools, for example, are to put the prosecutors and the jurists on their march. Or the institutional infrastructure we have, the politics of the people to develop the policy, the policy, the necessary policy, the integrated politics, and the extensive politics we have. To do this, the future politician must have three characteristics: leadership, initiative and will to deal with the problem. To deal with the vicious circle of climate change that I referred to in my question to the Lehendakari two Fridays ago, I was talking about that we lack one... or there is an institutional inaction, because there is not enough awareness and social awareness that drives politicians to act. And this together causes a lack of leadership that in turn again causes institutional inaction. Greta Thunberg in her speech at the Polish Conference, at the Polish Summit on Climate Change, said that until they began to focus on what should be done, it was about politicians, until they began to focus on what should be done, rather than what is politically possible, there will be no hope. She differentiated what should be done from what is politically possible. And in Euskadi, what needs to be done is basically three things. We need to update our 2050 Climate Change Strategy, we need to be able to already pass a climate change law, and we need to launch a global process of information, training, awareness and awareness-raising for all Basque citizens. Of the whole Basque society, not only of the citizens, but also of the economic agents, of the business and trade union agents, and why not, of the political class, to face the challenge to which I referred. The scientific world assists with impotence the fact that the political class to which you and I belong, you are not taking the issue seriously enough, you are not taking the steps that must be taken quickly enough. There's not enough momentum. There's a slowing down. I spoke in my interpellation that there are negatists, negatists, but there are also so-called retardists, which consist of all of us looking next door, because if that does not move, that or that does not move, neither do I. And basically, this concept of backwardness already explained it at the time, down to the political level, Jean Claude Juncker, when he faced the crisis, the financial crisis of the last decade, when he said: "We know what we have to apply to end the crisis. What we don't know is how to get them to re-elect us after applying this solution." And I think there's a lot of that when we get started and yet suddenly we stop and say, "If the next one doesn't move, neither do I." Because if I'm going to have to put in place some measures that are unpopular, in the end, all I'm going to get is that I don't get re-elected. And in the background, we entered that vicious circle. But in the absence of political impetus, the lack of political action and the lack of social awareness to which I referred. And yet, decisions must be taken and urgent decisions must be taken. Scientists, scientists, say that all we don't have is time. The vice president of the International Panel on Climate Change, Deborah Roberts, said: "The years that remain until 2030 will be the most important in history." "Estomos hablando de 12 años, tres Legisuras." We're short of three regulations to set up the necessary measures. We must establish measures in these three laws. We must set them up, and then we must make them work; measures to alter society, measures to adapt the economy, and measures to alter our lives. 2030, 12 years ahead. Three legislatures, as I said, to straighten the way in the fight against climate change to adapt our economies, also the Basque, to decarbonize our societies, also the Basque, and to meet the objectives of Paris; Euskadi also has to fulfil them. Measures need to be put in place, they need to be put in place and they need to be enforced and all in 12 years. I have mentioned three measures, and I am going to put them into practice right now because they form the basis of the agreement that we have reached among all the groups and for which I would like to congratulate myself because, although it is true that at the time I thought of the lehendakari that we are going slowly, this is one more step in the progress that this society has to take. First, we need to adapt the Basque Climate Strategy 2050 to the Paris objectives. It's a strategy that has its objectives out of date. It is a strategy that the Government is not paying much attention to and this is a small eardrop for previous ones and for the present. There are no follow-up reports that were currently presented in that strategy. There are no indicators because there are no reports on Euskadi's emissions from 2017 or 2018. We are standing on this issue right now. We do not, as the Government promised, have the preliminary draft climate change law that we were told had to arrive. Moreover, the first project that failed precisely was three legislatures ago with Patxi López and from there until now three legislatures have passed, the same ones we need to implement the measures we need. Why is it not enough with the Basque Climate Strategy? The lehendakari said, we have a Basque climate strategy. The Basque Climate Strategy only obliges the Government, a law of climate change obliges the whole of society equally. The third leg, and not the least important one, is to establish a process of awareness-raising at all levels, citizen awareness, because today Basque citizens are aware that climate change is a global problem, a problem of first order. 12% of Basque citizenship considers this. It's not much, but it's 12%. But when they talk about Euskadi, they only consider that climate change affects Euskadi by 1%. And with 1% awareness we're not going anywhere. Yesterday the news appeared in the newspaper that the beautiful north is heading towards polar latitudes for climate change. The vineyard of Álava I am not going to say that it is directly threatened but, of course, it can suffer a lot with climate change. And so we can talk about many economic sectors, from the automotive sector, to which we have already referred at other times. But it's not just an economic issue. There are many Basque municipalities living in basins, living near the coast that can suffer more and more frequent episodes of floods, drought episodes. Well, they do exist. The Basque Government has published a report on this. We're not going to stop too much. The question is whether we consider this a problem or a challenge and an opportunity. And I am here for the first time using the word social problem, climate change, because I understand that, even though it is a global problem, at the local level it is an opportunity. British economist Nicholas Stern, who was at the Change the Change conference, said 65 million jobs will be created in the fight against climate change. And I was asking the lehendakari, are we going to create them in Euskadi or are they going to create them somewhere else? That is the challenge and that is the opportunity, and that is what we have to talk about today when we talk about economics. It's an opportunity for social innovation, for evolution as a society and as an economy, and that's what we have to connect to. As I have said at the beginning of my discourse, it is a challenge of all the struggles against the change of climate, is a popular challenge. A collective challenge and I must say that we are globally able to resist, men in the world, both here and here, of course. Activist Greta Thunberg in her speech began her speech by saying: "Many people say Sweden is just a small country and no matter what we do, but I've learned that you're never too small to make a difference." Eta hona ekarrita esaldi hori éta Euskadiri buruz hitz egiten badugu, nik esango nuke askok diotela Euskadi her her her her trukia, aspaldian bath ikasi texikiak genuela ez da aitzakia: ezina ekinez egina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u102	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The turn of the teams that are running the corrections, Mr. EHG, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u103	Yes, good afternoon to all. It's always a pleasure to come to great agreements and to-day, even in this important subject of climate change, we've come to an agreement. I want to put it in value, at least, above all two things that have been accepted in the medium here. On the one hand, the commitment to a revision of climate 2050 climate strategy, and to the law of climate change, or to bring the law into a period. But it seems to me, beyond this, that what I place in value, or whether we are to make a contribution or to make some critical reflection, because it seems to me that they are doing pretty ill, and I don't want to point out here especially, but I think we are all doing badly about the climate change in general. It seems to me that we ought to begin any discussion, and I think Mr. Becerra has mentioned the young Thunberg girl, all the young men who are mobilized in general, who will suffer the most violent effects of the change of climate. We're not paying proper attention to the individual. Even the parties in general, neither the administration, the community, nor the state, nor the class of the world, are in a bad state; The preliminary draft law on climate change and energy transition presented by Minister Ribera in Madrid in February, just two months ago, began by saying that the United Nations has stressed that there is a growing difference between the real path of greenhouse gas reduction and the obligations assumed by the states in the Paris agreement. He also said that the obligation to limit emissions conditioned sectoral policies and implied changes in consumption patterns and said that meeting energy and climate targets required unprecedented momentum. I don't think it's a bad start to recognize this. It seems to me, however, that we need to focus on this, especially when it's making fun and the previous governments have done it. We have insisted that governments and former governments do not agree with the handling of climates on the one hand. We don't think it makes any sense, considering the change in the climate leads to burning fossil resources at 80%. So at least climate and energy, and transport, I'd say, can't be divided. And we shall see in this law, I am not very positive, what law, if it should come, six months hence, but I do not know or there is no guarantee that we shall try it in this time of law. But at the most, there will be a law about climate change; on the other hand, a small law of energy, I dare say, and I know not whether we have laws about patient transport. Therefore it seems to me more remarkable to-day that we made our proposals in the Euskal Energy treaty, and I wish to put them in value also, because it seems to me that all this may be a matter of sufficient value. And it seems to me that we must now unite the energy and climate together, because in the command of Europe, in the new rule of power and climate, in the new rule of government, in the new order of energy and climate, it is very evident that we must present the integrated forms of energy and climate. And the project against the law that River introduceds the climate and energy. I think the road is going that way and I feel like we're not doing things right at home. I think we're not doing things right at all. A spokesman for the purpose of placing someone, I see the Government, that the President himself may be the best spoke of the niceties around the climate when he spoke of Change Change in the Union. He said climate change is the main problem. When we were a small town, we were engaged, and we were involved in the fact that there was no such thing as "Paris pequeño est," con peso condudodo, y que celva timoromedo, and that it was to be discovered that our 2050 disfastuad strategy was our 2050 unfastified, and that the change the congregregregree of the Change was a sign of comprosium, que que quemino de camis de la neutralo de caro de caro de caro que que quee de los de los quee del paos paos paos paos pati quee veri veri, connitio de 20 concus de 20 concus. From that point on, the City Hall and our mission are to change. But it gives me the feeling that beyond words, the measuring rod if we're doing things right, it's not so much if we have plans, written or if we make congresses, or even if we make laws, but if we're really taking the emissions back, because this issue has a cotton test, which is the emissions. And things obviously don't go well. If we look at the data from the last five years, we see that in 2014 emissions went up, we see that in 2015 emissions went up, in 2016 they went down, and the data for 2017, as has already been said, inexplicably are not, a year and four months later. But we have data from the Basque Energy Agency that tells us that electricity consumption went up, gas consumption went up, energy consumption went up and in the industry went up. Taking into account that 80% of emissions come from the energy sector directly or indirectly, the data obviously cannot be hopeful. We continue with the same inertia, and the latest energy consumption data for 2018 also indicate the same. With this, in the series of the last five years, when we have the final data, we will see how emissions have increased every five years. With regard to the climate strategy, which does recognize a great contribution by Euskadi to global warming, it is clear that it is all out of date and cannot be put at a congress in 2019 the 2050 Strategy, which is Paris' pre-agreement, as an example of a country strategy, when we are talking about 80% reduction on 2005 levels and not on 1990 levels, which is the base year of Kyoto. Actually, with this little accounting trap, what we're doing is taking away a 25% reduction potential. So, with regard to the responsibility that Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa have for climate change, I would separate it a little from the state context, because the state did have with a country, it was going to say underdeveloped, but in reality the exact term is with a GDP below the average of Europe, it had certain prebends; prebends to which we have been sheltered let us say to rebuf and we have not been responsible with our own responsibilities because our GDP is above the average of Europe and our per capita emissions are also above the average of Europe. Therefore, this community – this country – should have the responsibility that belongs to it, which is at least equal to the European average, if not higher. However, I want to finish this, you say, Mr. Becerra, there are three important matters: To renew the climate strategy, the law and the information and the conscience. I'd say another one. And I think we're talking about money when it's too hard. You didn't mention the money, and I think it's very important because here's the strategy of a town... We mark where the priorities are placed. The climate strategy said that during the year 2030s money related to climate policies would be 88 million euros per year. It's clear that we're not going anywhere with that, we're not going to have any resignation. I'm going to give you some data, because lately there's been a lot going on. The European Union's latest governance, energy and climate regulation is talking about EUR 180 billion by 2030 in order to reach the Paris agreements. Extrapolating that for us, it would be an investment of 8 billion euros until 2030. The preliminary draft law of the minister in office Ribera, spoke of a mobilization of 200,000 million. Extrapolating this to our figures, we would be talking about EUR 12 billion in mobilization. And, of course, this has to be fine-tuned and all this we hope will be fine-tuned in the expert group, that we hope will be created soon. But what is clear is that our priorities, if this is a matter of priorities, for works are love. We can fill with good reasons the strategies, even the laws, but if we don't put the money on the table, we'll have it very badly. I mean, I'm not sure that the government's going to be in such a hurry on this subject, and I don't know if there's any chance, but in this matter, this two-headed monster government seems to me to have a perfect union or crossing nowadays, which is not at all a typical policy, because the objectives of resignations are not involved, and the engagement of the climate has not joined the commitments of energy, it won't lead us anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u104	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u105	Thank you, President, and good afternoon. I will begin by nurturing some of the things that Mr Becerra and Mr Otero have said, and then focus on what he had proposed as an intervention. Mr Becerra said that in order to deal with this issue of climate change and try to solve it, we must have leadership, initiative and will. And of course this government is having them. And he raised three questions. To update the Klima 2050 strategy, which I believe is within the Government's approach, that the law be passed now, and I believe that the amendment we have adopted has a real commitment to a specific deadline that says when the law will be brought in. And then, a global process of training, information and sensitivity, which I share with you that is absolutely necessary. Because, as you said, it is not the same thing that the citizen perceives of the concern or the importance of the subject, and what then, when he brings it to his nearest area, that in this case is Euskadi. But I also believe that citizen perception cannot be directly linked to what each citizen feels in the implication of a problem. I mean, I don't think you can directly compare that 90 percent with that 1 percent that the Basque citizens end up responding. And then, the bill that was worked on during the government of the Legislature of the lehendakari Patxi López, I don't think it was a bill that could be defined as failed, because it didn't fail. It was a bill that was worked on, debated, amended, the participatory process was completed, an opinion was discussed, and the only thing left was to vote on the opinion. And that's where I'm staying. The bill did not fail. I think that the policy failed, that we were not able, each one of us, to explain it, to take that opinion where it had to be taken, but that debate came to an end. Moreover, that bill would have come out unanimously of the House, which we were all participating in in that debate. And then to Mr Otero to tell you that I share many of the things you have said, especially the good words referring to Minister Ribera, and to share with you that I too believe that climate and energy should be raised from governments, both central and autonomous, in a joint way, yes, it is an absolutely personal opinion. Because then it is true that when governments are formed and responsibilities are distributed, this is not the case. But I also share, which is what the Spanish Government has done, which in this way policies are much more coherent, and in what ends up affecting climate change, decisions are made on energy, so that they do not end up bumping the "interests" many times, in quotes, from what ends up defending one department and another. Having said that, to say that I believe that the issue of climate change is a reality that no one questions today. No one questions anyone today, because it's true that not so long ago there was one who questioned him. Changing the climate change trend is a commitment that must be shared and it must also be an urgency for all policy makers in this and any chamber, as Mr Becerra put forward in his speech. The fight against climate change should be an objective assumed by all public administrations, on the one hand, beyond what we are capable of defending in the stands or putting in the electoral programmes. But also for the rest of society as individual citizens, as entrepreneurs, as all of us who are part of society. Each one, of course, within his or her abilities, responsibilities and the possibilities that each one has. The different levels of the Administration should assume their own responsibilities and from the responsibilities that the socialists have in this case in Euskadi, work is being done on the bill that was committed when it came to this legislature, and that moreover the Government of Spain is already taking us forward in three key pieces. One is that preliminary draft to which Mr. Otero referred, which is the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act; the National Integral Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030; and the Just Transition Strategy. I believe that in this case the Government of Spain – it is true, as part of self-criticism – goes ahead, but it is also true that it has competence in some things that we do not have in Euskadi. My group therefore starts by saying that in this House we all share the concern, the need to assume responsibilities and the awareness of the actions and initiatives being carried out in this case by the Basque Government. Once the original initiative proposed to us by Mr Becerra has been worked out, I would like to make a few contributions concerning the justification and with which we do not agree from my group. The Klima 2050 strategy that was approved in 2015 – because it was approved in 2015 – is defined within the justification with an assessment that it is out of date. I think that something that is a strategy as complex as this, saying that it is out of date seems to me to be at least a bit demanding or a bit unfair. Last year, an interim non-compliance report was produced which allows us to know at what point the goals and actions envisaged in this strategy are being met. A total of 47% of compliance has been achieved. The goals remain fully in force, and are being translated into actions as well as plans or laws such as Energy Sustainability that was passed in this House not too long ago. The Klima 2050 Action Plan 2020 is one of the key pillars in the fight against climate change. There are currently 10 municipalities in Euskadi with plans to combat climate change, 11 adaptation plans at the municipal level, three specific climate strategies, 47 municipal greenhouse gas inventories, 98 local sustainability plans that promote energy efficiency and mobility, among others, as well as six municipal ordinances aimed at combating climate change. That is why I cannot share what was said about institutional inaction, when I believe that each of the Basque institutions within what it can, is fulfilling and making decisions to combat this situation. Continuing with justification, in this legislature, as everyone knows...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u106	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u107	...a specific climate change law is not envisaged...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u108	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u109	...but a law-framework of environment and nature conservation and climate change. Finally, it is decided to delve into each of the subjects and, with both legal and final criteria of the law, it is decided to make three different draft laws. The Climate Change Act has a draft, and economic and legal memory is already being addressed in order to be able to work in the public participation process. But above all, I believe that the various parliamentary groups have already been kept informed. By recognizing points and agreements – which are many in the original initiative – Mr Becerra refers to the congress held in Donostia during the month of March, which is true that the scientific world had its role, and in which also political representatives recognized the need to make commitments in order to be able to leave an adequate legacy for future generations. Although Euskadi has a small weight in global emissions, that should not be an excuse for us to abandon what we have to do. Delaying decisions would mean taking more risks, more costs and more unfairly distributed and giving up opportunities to modernize our economy and society, putting at risk fundamental goals for security in many things. The policy on climate change through a future law and with each of the decisions taken in all the institutions, places this issue at the political centre, in all the areas it touches, when earlier there was little talk of this within the political parties and institutions. The obligation to limit emissions should condition and condition sectoral policies and entail changes in consumption patterns. But that transformation brings benefits related to the modernisation of the productive model and the energy system, and it will provide opportunities for employment, business and growth, which is something we have also talked about many times in this Parliament. The different governments work on a road map. Everyone has marked what they think they need to do, because I think we all share a goal. In this context, in which we believe that we have a shared concern and a need for decision-making, it is for this reason that the groups that support the Government are putting forward a compromise measure. A first point recognized the scenario in which we find ourselves and in which political consensus is fundamental and, therefore, we are happy with unanimity, I do not know the People's Party, but with a broad agreement on this point. In the second, we called for the development of the climate change and energy transition policy, understanding that the work of the Basque Government is aimed at this goal. On the third point, the department is committed to bringing the bill over the next six months. And finally, continue with those campaigns that Mr Becerra told us about awareness-raising, training, dissemination, among other things. To conclude, therefore, by saying that the Basque Government is working hard on this issue, that the entire legislature is being carried out, that many initiatives have been taken and that the commitment to provide Basque with a climate change law of its own that, as I say, I think is late, because we have missed a great opportunity in the Patxi López Government. It continues to be done through concrete actions in this policy, and I would dare to say that this is increasingly urgent. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u110	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u111	Yes, good afternoon. President General, Chief of Staff, members of the legislature. Climate change is complex, it is not familiar, it is invisible, it moves slowly and it is also intergenerational. In short, it is a complex problem for which we are all responsible, while at the same time harmed. Above all, we do not have a clear enemy, we do not know who to manifest ourselves against, to the point that we all manifest ourselves all the time asking for things we do not know very well to whom. Obama said that we are the first generation to notice the effects of climate change, and also the last generation to be able to do something about it. For a long time there has been talk of climate change as something about the environment, and this is absolutely wrong. Climate change is an environmental problem, yes. But it's also an economic, health, energy, demographic problem, our diet... I mean, it's a complex problem. In any case, I am convinced that human creativity, technology, knowledge and the international community are capable of meeting this challenge. I am also convinced that a clear message from the institutions is crucial. Mr. Becerra said, "We have a choice for leadership," and I agree. Fortunately, Basque institutions woke up very soon to the need to take care of the planet as our only common home, since the launch of the Department of Environment in the Basque Government, with the pioneering approval of the General Environmental Law 3/98, thanks to the vision and impulse of people determined at that time, to whom we have to thank their efforts then. Going through initiatives of Agenda 2021 of municipalities, such as that of Vitoria-Gasteiz, first to subscribe to the Charter of Aalborg throughout the State, active advocate of the implementation of policies that at that time it was necessary to explain and defend as absolutely unknown topics. I remember the debates at that time, about whether we should call it sustainability or sustainability. Bad jokes about it. What are we going to call it? At that time I remember having to explain what these concepts meant as a first step to start any meeting. And from that we have come to consider these terms as spent, hyper used, lack of content to use them so much. And on this semantic journey, we've spent 30 years. 30 years in which Euskadi has been and is a reference in sustainability policies, and within these, there are obviously those related to climate change. Not in vain, the 2030 agenda of the United Nations...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u112	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u113	...a por la sottenileidad, tiene como meta, 13. The purpose is to take a watering measure against climate change and its consequences, and the government program has an competitive economy of small carbons, like a government promisssis, including, of course, the Basque Country 2030th diary. The 2002-2020 Euskadi Sustainability Strategy, adopted in 2002, successive environmental framework programmes, the latest of which was adopted in 2014 in force until 2020. By the way, Otero jauna, 2014an program markoanbiennatal hori onartu zenean, hor lana posetu zen binomioka, éta bigarren binomioa klima and energy da. Hor tretatuta dago zuk aipatzen zenuena, zeren guztiz ados nago zurekin eta hor ere tretatuta zegoen binomio hori. And the recent strategy – yes, recent strategy – Klima 2050 is evidence of this long journey that makes us able to face the future with responsibility and concern, but also with optimism. We don't start from scratch. We have planned, evaluated, corrected, encouraged, sanctioned, legislated on issues affecting the causes of climate change and, at this time, we have strategies that allow us to take that leadership and adapt flexibly to the challenges of climate scenarios. That is true, it is necessary to implement the tools set out in the strategies that we have adopted in a consensual manner and widely shared by this House. Klima 2050 had a participatory and prolonged elaboration over time. It culminated in a monographic debate – which we remember a few here – in which it was enriched and consolidated as a flexible tool. She herself says, Klima 2050 herself says that it must be adapted, that it must be adapted to different evaluations. With long-term look, but short- and medium-term working tools. Our institutions have been committed and working on the climate network for years. The Basque Government participates actively in international networks, our local administrations are incorporated in global alliances such as the Compact of Meyers, Covenant of Meyers and, no less important, they work in Udalsarea, the network of Basque municipalities for sustainability for many years, 74% of our municipalities representing 90% of the population of Euskadi. Without being exhaustive and by way of example, I am going to make a brief tour of different sectors and their situation at the moment. Our companies have achieved a reduction in emissions of 46,5% since 2005, they have worked with tools such as voluntary agreements, product environmental declarations, international ecodesign standards, eco-labels, EMA certificates... Hence my appreciation to all those who have contributed to this process for their involvement and good doing in times when no one spoke of these things. Our primary sector has reduced the use of chemical fertilizers by 34.3% between 2005 and 2007. It is increasingly betting on organic agriculture and certified forest management. The modal distribution of transport indicates that we move mainly on foot or by bicycle thanks to the high quality of our urban environments, the result of a territorial planning based on the compactness and complexity of the built environments. We have recently opened the first point in the entire state of rapid charging for electric vehicles in Gasteiz. We have adopted an energy law and an energy strategy that addresses the issue of transport emissions. It is true that in transport we have increased emissions, but we are putting in place tools to reverse this trend, which we very much need. @I also want to stop for a moment at something that I think is crucial, which is awareness, the role of the media, the way we communicate. The way we communicate sometimes makes us see the problem as something very far away, which is not proper, which has nothing to do with our daily lives. Sometimes we spread fear, guilt. That makes us paralyzed, we don't move forward. I don't think catastrophism helps us at all. I think we should keep moving from consciousness, from consciousness, but without catastrophes. In 2017, Unicef-Euskal Herria proposed an alliance for the media called Aliaods, allies, somehow. EiTB also has an agreement with Unesco Etxea for the dissemination of SDGs. A decade of recommendations for the media to which they are increasingly adhere has recently been launched. Focusing on causes, solutions, not just consequences, talking about close things. Sometimes it's more shocking to talk about what happens to polar bears or whales, but that takes away the issue from our day to day. It makes us not get so involved. Here I will recall the institutional declaration on bees, for example; that is something closer to us. It's less glamorous than talking about polar bears. But we have to bring the problems to our day-to-day. I mean here, I want to put here also a point about the scientific community we have created in Basquedi working, 28 research groups working between universities, technology centres, which carry out activities in 20 different areas of research, all related to climate change. I think we should take advantage of all those synergies. Finally, the role of citizens as responsible and conscious consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think of yourselves as agents of climate change? Have you been asked? Anna Lappé says: "Every time you spend money you're giving a vote for the kind of world you want. We are consumers and this is a great tool. Do we think about the concerns of the companies we buy from? Do you think about the energy you use in your homes? Where does it come from? Do you think of how much meat you eat a week? "Being a conscious consumer is a great tool for reversing trends. In this role of conscious consumers, our diet, for example, taking into account the whole food chain, has much to do with greenhouse gas emissions and also with intergenerational and intercontinental solidarity. "We don't all need to become vegetarians or vegans now. It's not a matter of binary behavior. It is a matter of thinking about the consequences of each of our daily, daily acts. And reduce our ecological footprint as we send a loud and clear message to institutions and businesses." I recommend a book, "Diet for a hot planet: the climate crisis at the end of its fork". And what can you do for it? Last Christmas our President Bakartxo presented us on behalf of the Table with a glass bottle for water. Mila esker, benetan. Horrelako gauzak will say provatzen dutenak thousand tantek itsaso osatzen dutela. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Becerra, in your question to the Councillor, anyone could conclude that here in the Basque Country, in this House, we have never talked about climate change or that we have never contributed to climate change initiatives and how to deal with the changes that are announced to us. I will remind you, Mr Becerra, it has already been mentioned, that the title of your inquiry was "Government's impetus to policies to combat climate change". And in that interpellation he made no mention of the first intervention to the Climate Change Strategy 2050 of the Basque Country; a Strategy that had its monographic debate in this House in September 2015. A monographic debate, I think very productive, in which we made 168 amendments among all the groups. We did more, but 168 were admitted. Our group has tabled 96 motions for resolutions. 90 were approved as such, 6 had sex and the rest of the groups also had sex or the majority had been approved. I therefore believe that it was an interesting, productive debate that completed the strategy. And a strategy that had cross-cutting aspects and that has them. Our group tabled amendments on transport, where energy audits were encouraged and encouraged in transport fleets. We promote plans for sustainable mobility, improvement and energy efficiency in long-distance public transport services for road travellers. Also in housing and urban planning. Encourage energy audits in buildings. Energy efficiency in buildings, energy rehabilitation of the thermal envelope in existing buildings, promoting bioclimatic architecture. We also include concepts of sustainability in tourist destinations, in the management of their resources. We also touched on the subject of agriculture and called for the creation of an official seal of quality for agricultural products with carbon footprints. But also to promote more sustainable agricultural practices, insisting on incorporating criteria of saving and energy efficiency, also when giving aid to agricultural, fisheries, aquaculture and forestry activities. It also disseminates technical criteria for optimizing the use of machinery. But also in the field of industry and education, in the area of health, in raising awareness, Mr Becerra. And also in monitoring and evaluating the strategy. Because this is a strategy that, she herself says, needs to be continuously evaluated, because it is long-term and, indeed, in the long term this is expected to happen. Therefore, it is included. Another thing is that it hasn't been done, and another thing is that it's been four years without it. But that does not mean that the Strategy is outdated or outdated. It's just that someone responsible hasn't bothered to do it. Okay, but put the accent where it fits. Don't put it in the strategy because the Strategy is novel. And all that I mentioned to you is so novel that it seemed so novel to you to include in the Energy Sustainability Act two months ago. I mean, if it's new today and it's in the Strategy, the Strategy isn't out of date, is it, Mr. Becerra? Well, having clarified this point, I wanted to say that the references I have given you on the contents are current and that in the interpellation I referred to the conference that took place in March organized by the Basque Government and by private sectors related to this. And you said the years that Mrs Debra Roberts said, that the years that we have left by 2030, 11 years, for they will be the most important in history. And, Mr Becerra, as we have been talking about this for a long time and it has been written for a long time, because these messiah-like ads are very old. I'll tell you what. Look, in 1989, Noel Brown, an environmental official of the UN, warned that entire countries would be devastated by sea level rise if we did nothing before 2000. This was said in 1989. In 2006, Al Gore, prizes of all kinds, Nobel Peace Prize, triumphed with his documentary "Uncomfortable Truth". And also his book and other books, which ensured that there were only 10 years left for the world to reach a point of no return. We're still here, the average temperature hasn't risen, it's lower than 2006. So, there we are. Mr. Al Gore has not returned any prize and continues to charge the $300,000 per conference. In 2007, both the head of climate change experts and the head of the Global Nature Fund said we only had five years to save the world, and from this there are multiple references. I mean, clearly, we're facing evidence that it's changing the climate. What else will it be that these deadlines put us on the table in each intervention because they have dubious credibility. And the facts are leading us to that reason. You were talking about climate change action will generate 65 million jobs in the world. I bet Mr Ruiz de Arbulo it's not going to be 65, it's going to be 64. But if you tell me 65, I believe you. Because, Mr Becerra, how many years have we been turning around, not us, but platforms, foundations, etc. around the circular economy? A few days ago the creation of the consultative convulsion on circular economy, created by the Spanish standardization association, UNE, was announced. They've joined because they can't guide this. They fail to normalize and order all the regulations and how much is announced. So, if we don't have the basics in order, how are we going to know the jobs we're going to create if we don't know what we're going to do or how we're going to do it? To announce these things is free, it costs nothing, but it has very little real. Then of course we have to work in that area but 65 billion jobs because, as I say, I thought it was going to be 64,000, but if you tell me that, you still have some data. There is an important part of the scientific world that questions global warming, which is due to gases. Some say there are other natural phenomena that can intervene in this. Therefore, there are scientists who bet on one criterion and others who bet on another. We, of course, work and insist that something happens here, yesterday the CSIC told us – you made reference to the vineyards, and that is why I will remind you – the CSIC told us yesterday that they do not find evidence of climate change according to the statistical analyses made in the vineyards. A vineyard in Galicia, another vineyard in Asturias... So he was telling us that they have had a study since 1930 and that, well, what Mrs. Carmen Martínez said, who is a CSIC scientist, that if we are not perhaps working very deeply on climate change and we are not working on the change that is happening on the ground, which causes diseases. Because she said that they do not find very substantial evidence of climate change, but that they do find an obvious fact, which is the increase of diseases in the vineyard. We have here the brown band, the red band, and that they question themselves. Therefore, Mr Becerra, if they question themselves, I will join them, because of course, they have worked much harder and I think they know something more than we do. In any case, our group made an amendment, because, as I was saying, I believe that what is missing from this Climate Change Strategy is a continuous assessment of the long process of development in the Strategy, what I was saying before, what is missing, and what has not been implemented, and that is why we insist on the amendment. This was a motion for a resolution that was adopted but has not been implemented. Therefore, we insist on it. I also believe that Parliament should be given reports on the evaluation, the status of the Strategy, where it can move forward and what has been achieved and what has not been achieved. We, given the compromise amendment... There is one thing that is happening in the initiatives that are being presented in this House, which raise a point that seems to be more political doctrine than mere recommendation or demand of the Government. And then, the first point I want to say is that it seems more like an ideological manifesto, that I would write it differently, and that we are going to abstain. I do not object, but I do not take it as my own, because I think it can be written differently. The other points we are going to vote in favour. You told us, Mr Becerra, that you think three important points, to update the Strategy, the Climate Change Act and the awareness-raising process. But it contradicts what you say here. Because what you ask of us is more doctrine. And on the other hand he asks us here for more action. This is doctrine, all of this, one way or another, we have it on the table, call it plan, call it strategy, but what about action? Why do we only entertain ourselves in doctrine and not in action? We believe that we must move on to execution and less doctrine. That is therefore the position of the People's Group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing on the answer shift, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u117	Mrs López de Ocariz, when I asked the lehendakari a couple of weeks ago, I asked him about what he had done in this legislature. That is why the Strategy, which was earlier, did not refer to it, but, well, it had it in mind. But what you have said – and I will start with you – I would like the House to see the doctrine that is contained in the first point, because it is quite interesting. And this collective indoctrination says: "The Basque Parliament shows its utmost concern for the acceleration of global climate change observed by the international scientific community in its latest reports, whose effects are already evident also in climatology and Basque ecosystems, and commits itself within the framework of its competences, to stimulate and promote the initiatives that are presented to it in the field of climate change and energy in the search for the greatest possible political consensus." Is this doctrine? At the Change the Change conference, which I agree with Mr. Otero that only by organizing conferences we do nothing, but well, 600 scientists gathered. In the front row we had a seat, representatives of this Parliament. You had one. It wasn't. I did. I went, I listened to the lehendakari, I listened to President Sánchez and then I stayed to listen to the economists and the scientists. And from that scientific indoctrination I came up with this paragraph. This paragraph shares all other groups except yours. No more. I, Mrs. Red, didn't mean to say that nothing was done. You know that's the case. You know that's the case. I say little has been done. I told the lehendakari too, and it could have been done faster and faster. You mentioned, for example, that there are six Basque municipalities that have climate change ordinances. There are 250 municipalities, 2% of Basque municipalities have a climate change ordinance, as do 1% of Basques and Basques believe that climate change affects Euskadi. And what has been done has been above all in the voluntary sphere. The Basque Climate Strategy is a strategy that the Government is endowed with for its government policies, but it is not binding on people. It is binding on the Government. When I say she's out of date, it's not about the contents. I agree with Mrs López de Ocariz that it was done in a participatory way, but the commitments of the Paris Summit are not incorporated in the 2050 strategy and, therefore, it has been out of step with regard to the objectives of implementation, without more. The failure of the bill of the time of the lehendakari López is not awarded either to the lehendakari López, nor to his Government, not even to this House. I, who at that time did not devote myself to politics, lived it from the outside as a failure of society. Like a failure of society. And so I keep seeing that in this legislature, after three years, we do not have the preliminary draft climate change law. I see it as a social failure, a failure of society. From a society that is not able to consider that preliminary draft is basic to build the Euskadi of the future. That is why I was telling the Lehendakari, and I repeat it again today, that I believe that in the forthcoming legislature, the 16th legislature, should be the legislature of climate change, just as the Lehendakari considered it the legislature of employment. And we should be able in the time that we have left of this legislature to implement the strategy, to implement the law, so that when the next legislature arrives, the first of the three that the apocalyptics consider we need to adapt to climate change, the first of those three, already puts us on the path to the solution. Mr Otero is right that I have not mentioned the issue of money and is fundamental. Mrs López de Ocariz mentioned this, and I thank her too. I have not mentioned it because I understand that today – and with this I am finishing – we should be aware of something that is already vox populi And therefore, I understand that the change in the production processes to which Mrs Red has referred and all the other changes that need to be made, which are not just individual changes, Mrs Oregi, are collective changes, they have to lead us to a better society. But for that, I repeat, there is a need for momentum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u118	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u119	Well, I'm sorry, I know it's been a long day and you're all so tired, but you know, you have to put passion on the subject and certain shades on the table, even if it's through telegrams. I agree with a lot of things, but there's one thing I don't agree with, and I'll pull it a little. About what Mrs. Red said. Klima 2050, metase in effect. No, no, It's just what we're saying, no. It cannot be that we think it is good that there are targets in place for a document that tells us about 80 % reduction in greenhouse gases 2050, compared to 2005, which is 60 % reduction compared to the base year of Kyoto, and that is good. Or we cannot give as a good existing goal to have 40% renewable energy supply in 2050, when we are talking about complete decarbonisation. Only that invalidates and leaves out the Klima 2050. Another thing, about what Oregi has said, is that we do not have a clear objective, that we do not know well what we are facing. And there's one thing about me going over data, it's how good it has to go over a lot of data, that when you see one of Ihobe's inventories, and if you go back, we see how there are some things where the information was much more detailed, and it was much more interesting. I have the 2006 summary, it's not going to be seen from there, but it's very well detected, facing what and where we face it. In other words, CO 2 is 86.7% of our emissions, and within that, more than 80% is combustion, and more than 10% is transformation losses and trade in electricity. I mean, it's very clear where we have to attack, it's very obvious. Another thing is whether or not we are able to mobilize funds and have the regulatory framework, which is another issue. And another thing in which in this is in what I disagree most. When you speak, and in the speech of the lehendakari in Congress too, you speak of everything that has been done and how well it has been done. Many documents have been made and many actions have been made, I will not deny that. But then, I say, if in the base year of Kyoto, 1990, to this day, it has been 30 years, almost 30 years, and it turns out that we are emitting 8 or 9 % less greenhouse gases, when the reductions were to be on Kyoto far greater, taking into account our GDP per capita and our emissions per capita in Europe, then we have done a lot, but climate change is successful. No matter what we've done, the point is we haven't had any results, and that's the case. And indeed, the industry has reduced a lot. It has reduced since 1990 by 49%, it is the only sector that has reduced since then. Of course, but we have had a crisis, and a conversion, and a abandonment of the heaviest industries. And that also has to do, and it has not so much to do with the policies that have been taken. But of course, you have said, and it is obvious, in transport we have increased. Of course, we have increased by 220% compared to 1990 emissions, which means that reductions in the other fields are still trembling. A fact. He spoke about the impetus to organic farming. I have the data too, 4.6%, not to throw rockets either. Fertilizers have reduced, I'm not saying no. But 20,700,000 kilos of fertilizer last year, not to throw so many rockets. I want to say that the Government has a tendency to justify what it has done, as is normal, but I think that the approach would be more interesting if we acted from a consciousness that we are already a little bit desperate, that everyone is telling us. Then we will have done, but it doesn't matter, it's not enough, we have to do much more. And above all, the part of the solution has a lot to do with mobilizing funds. We have a triad, we have a triad that is constantly repeated in all analyses. That is, we have, we consume more energy, it increases GDP, it increases emissions. And the only block in which we have actually lowered emissions has been in the block 2007-2013, in that block we have fallen a lot, but precisely associated with a loss of purchasing power in the loss of GDP. So, we have to get out of that circle. We have to get out of that circle by making a bet for an innovation, putting ourselves in front of the changes that are coming. So it is clear that we have to make a change of priorities, and think about mobilizing those funds, which in proportion, as the European document and that of the State is telling us, is talking about an investment, a fork between 8,000 and 12,000-13 billion euros by 2030. For other matters, they have been made, those moneys have been set aside or those moneys have been sought. So, we have to put ourselves to this, if not, there's no way we can get, for many plans we make, for much Udalsarea we have. It is a matter of setting priorities and putting us all together, and in that sense I do not think it helps much to praise the early, early work of the Government during all these years. And I will allow myself a small evil to end with regard to the work of the PSOE in terms of awareness. If we're talking about a subject as serious and as strong and as serious as it is, of course, it can't be that we leave for posterity, that here we've talked a lot about Patxi López's helmet with fracking and so on, it's that you give us one every time, which is that it's impressive. I mean, you can't do this. This isn't serious. This isn't serious. This is, well, the promo photo of Change the Change of Climate Change. I don't know if it looks that way. I guess it's a joke, I guess it's a joke that climate warming melts the poles and then we take a picture with a cardboard pole. No, it's not serious. It's not serious.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u120	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u121	Thank you, President. Man, Mr. Otero, I don't know if you're serious, or you're not serious, and let's talk about Mr. Lopez' helmet again. What is not serious is to come now to defend renewable energies, everything that needs to be done, when you have been boycotting all the possibilities of implementing renewable energies through wind farms in Euskadi. What's serious or not serious? Mr. Otero, it's just that I get along with you, but it's just that you tell me a few things that... In the end, look I haven't been in for a while, but it's just that, in the end, I think that the issue of fracking you and I in six years discussing we were able to make a law. When something goes wrong, I think there was a self-criticism here by my party in this very rostrum, by the voice of this very Member of Parliament, and I think we were able to work. But it is very good to come here from the adalid of renewables, all that needs to be done, the climate change of such, when in Euskadi each within the competences that we have, within the responsibilities of each political party, the left abertzale has had a lot of responsibility on the platforms that have boycotted the possibility of renewable energies in the Basque Country. And each one who assumes what's on him. And when you don't want to listen, don't say it. Having said that, I would say that I believe that, on the subject of climate change, Mr Becerra, there has been much more than working on voluntary matters. I believe that the institutions have worked very hard, and I think and what I regret most is that we have been able to sign four parliamentary groups in the amendment, but I have a deep sense that we share the title. But when we start scratching how to carry out or be able to recognize what is done and what is not done, I don't think we're that close. And I will say that I share that things have been done and that we should not use this as an excuse for everyone to clean up what has to do with their political party, but it seems to me that the Energy Sustainability Act has been passed in this legislature, the sustainable mobility law is being worked out, the bills of the department headed by Mr Arriola will be brought in. It has been explained why the climate change law has not arrived but, Mr Becerra, it has not arrived because it was not proposed that it should have arrived earlier. When the legislature began and the legislative calendar was brought in, it did not appear before 2019. Therefore, these emergencies, I understand that the law is necessary, urgent and demanded, but it is going to be brought according to what was agreed in the Governing Council, which this Parliament has been informed, and which is public information and which everyone knows. In addition to that, the country energy pact that was recently agreed was adopted, and I believe that it is also the concern and commitment that this Parliament and all its parliamentary groups have to this issue. I therefore believe that climate change, perhaps not in a way with that headline as big as we are talking about today, is not the same, it has not been spoken like that. But I believe that Euskadi, as Mrs Oregi said, has been working little by little, and I believe that it is ahead of other autonomous communities, which, although I say, much remains to be done. We have absolutely worrying data on dependency. The change in the consumption model and the production model must be changed, and I believe that the Basque Government is working on that. He is working with companies, taking bonus and exemption measures to continue working on this; but, as I say, history speaks for itself and some of us have brought many initiatives to this Parliament to work for many things, and on many occasions we have seen ourselves very alone. And of course, when you remember the history of some here, you should remember the history of everyone. When one is wrong as in our case we are wrong, we recognize it. I wish we were all so generous and honest to come down to this rostrum and say we were wrong! But now we will work, because renewables not only export them outside of Euskadi, but they are also a reality for Basque citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u122	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u123	Yes, good afternoon again. Mr. Becerra, we are neither negatists nor what is it like? retarded, or whatever, or conformists. But it is true that we recognize that things have been done, that many things have been done as I have explained before and I will not repeat myself. And I think we have a lot of tools. We have enough tools, we have enough knowledge and we do not conform. What we need is to get organized. We organize, continue to move forward and set in motion, as I said, all the tools we already have. The Klima 2050 tool, as has already been said here and as Mrs López de Ocariz has explained very well, presents biennial follow-up reports, starting in 2017, and also presents interim evaluation reports every ten years, starting in 2020. And the Strategy itself speaks of having to be the result of these biennial assessments, it must adapt to the needs and evolution of the data. When you make a strategy up to the year 50, a long-term strategy, you have to put forward that it is something flexible, and that it is something modulable according to the results, because we are working with scenarios as you well know, we are not working with certain data, but with scenarios and with probabilities. Some nuances of some things that have been said and that I haven't had time before answering. Emissions in the European average per capita. We are not above the European average per capita; we are above the European average per capita; we are at 8,7; we are at the same level as the European Union. But if I compare myself with Germany, which is an economy similar to ours per capita, it is an economy similar to ours, we are below, Germany is at 11.4. You said we were way above the European average. So, just for mating. On the other hand, Mr Becerra also, well, in reply to Mrs Red, some mention has been made of the municipalities and the tools they have in place. I want to express here my absolute admiration and respect for the work that has been done and that the municipalities and our local administrations continue to do, outside, even our councils in Álava. We have 10 municipalities with climate change plans, 11 adaptation plans, three specific strategies, 47 municipal greenhouse gas inventories, 98 local sustainability plans, 6 municipal climate change ordinances. This is a record. This means that our base, our municipalities, our administrations closest to the citizens, are absolutely involved and applied in the issue of climate change. Which is great news. Shall we settle? No, we have to reach 100%, we have to move on and we have a lot of work to do, because their scenarios are changing. Mr. Otero, I didn't have to explain myself well, I wanted to make the entrance a little poetic and then you say that we don't know... That I let it look like we didn't know what we were up against. Yeah, I know we know what we're up against. We have data on which sectors are key, what are the emissions... All that we know a long time ago. In addition, I have already told you that in 2002 we already had a tour. But, well, I wanted to make an entrance a little poetic. Either way, of course we're up against each other. What I meant was that citizenship may not see it as a problem, it doesn't see it as how much tomatoes are worth or how much the tram is going to cost me. In the end it is given, but the effort of the media, the institutional effort to bring this problem closer to the citizenry so that they do not see it as far away. That was only my point of view or my way of addressing that issue. As for the base year, exciting, but then we didn't start the campaign. We're still here, but they leave us alone. You and I talking about the base year and surely Mr Becerra join us if it's 90, if it's 2005, why are the data taken in 2005, how it applies to Kyoto, exciting. Any time. In any case, the data is all there, and nothing is hiding. And there is a very good fact, I am not justifying the Government, but what I am doing is putting on the table and putting into value all that this society has done, not the Government. This society. That's what I've been trying to value. And not to justify it or to put on medals, no. To congratulate them, to encourage them and to continue working on that line. There is a fact that is very important and that many years ago we worked to make that happen and it seemed impossible to us. Do you know what it is? The disconnection. And you know what I'm talking about, right? The decoupling years ago, in 2002, was a dream, as it is now a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. "Essalka Popular, lópez de ocarari, he mustn't speak. Now that we've ended our discussion, we're going to vote together Podemos, Euskal Sozialists, The delivery correction that the EH Collectors and Eubertarians have signed. Yeah, it's all the points. The first one apart and the rest... Well, we vote for the first point. I didn't ask, but I think there's no problem. We'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters of 63; the opposites, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u125	So the first point is accepted. Next up, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 points will be voted. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-04-11.u126	So all the other points have been unanimously accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was 6 p.m. and twenty-eight.
