ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. Silence. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Gorka Amelvarez Martíne Eubertarians, members of the staff staff staff, the chief staff of the Public and Autogobernus, about the digital work or actions of the Eutído. " Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Mr. Erkora, at this year's general policy meeting, President Urcullu identified a series of popular challenges, which is called, in other words, a digital act of technology. The integration of digital technology will take effect throughout the Eucharistic life, social or economic level, that's clear. And this also requires a general administration and supplication. Progress in such areas as cybersecurity, the expansion of the Internet, 5G connectivity or artificial intelligence will influence all sectors of the Basque Country, from energy to transport, through industry, health, food, telecommunications, finance and services. And also in governance, how we manage, how we relate to citizenship and, ultimately, how we face this digital transformation to meet the challenges we face as a society in Euskadi. That is why, given that data management, valuation and protection are central to all digital transformation processes, what we wanted to know today is what actions or projects the Basque Government is carrying out in this area. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. Mr. Álvarez, as the president says hridedo, suddenly quoted the 'Sanian policy' on the subject of the digital technology challenge: the data management is the essential point. In the globalized society, in countries like ours, it is the fundamental element of building a digital future. It's data 21st. It's taken for oils of the century, and, considering that, you can take that kind of thing in a big measure like that, but I'm sure it's a lot of politics that's been set up, and that's all, in order to make that data management efficiently. Policies that manifest themselves in different areas. In the area of security and the protection of personal data, but not only personal data. Policies that are also planned in the area of data quality, because quality services cannot be imagined without quality data. And policies, thirdly, aimed at incorporating data into environments or ecosystems that generate value in public services vis-à-vis citizens. With regard to data protection and security, data belong to citizens. This is an unquestionable fact, and therefore its management and use by public administrations can only be achieved with the consent of the holders and for the specific purposes for which they were transferred to the Administration. In this respect, within the framework of the existing European data protection regulation, the Government has already registered, first of all, more than 800 registers, more than 800 different data processing, not only of a personal nature, but mainly of a personal nature, and has equipped itself with all the institutional infrastructure required by Europe for the protection and articulation of this data set: the data protection delegate, the data controllers –up to 112 in the public sector as a whole – data protection references, responsible for reciprocity measures, etc. And, moreover, to offer security and confidence in the custody of these data, which is fundamental, not only for those of a personal nature, for years now we have promoted, which we are promoting, a process of convergence of data centre infrastructures. As far as quality is concerned, quality data – I insist – are essential for quality public services. And, in this sense, we have the best nutritious web portal of the catalogues that exist among the autonomous communities of the Spanish State: 3,441 sets of data coming from the autonomous public sector, exclusively, to which are added 641 from other public administrations. And, in addition, they are incorporated into a value-generating ecosystem. At the moment, the administration that most interacts with the rest of the public administrations within the Spanish State is the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, with interactions by number of 3,800,000 in a total of 23 million that take place throughout the Spanish State; that is, 4.7% of the population carries out 16% of the data transmissions between public administrations, which represents a very important proportion and is the largest in the Spanish State. Well, all this shows that the Basque Government is indeed firmly committed to data management, which is key to the digital development of the future, and to data management from the point of view of security, quality, and value generation, which are the fundamental elements in that generation and in that digital future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u4	Thank you, chief physician. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, made by the members of the Cianova Alonso EH Collectations to the President, about the position which the President will assume in front of the late hour of work." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u5	Workers on metal, good morning. Good morning, good morning to all of you. Let my first words be the union of the unions and workers of the Biscay metal to congratulate us on the struggle that they are engaged in and which they are engaged in success. I wish you the best of luck in this fight which you have from now on, and I hope you'll get what you really need: I'm a worthy labor agreement. Mr. President, up to now, you've always played neutralism on business, and I'm saying neutralism. Will it always be like this from now on? In every conflict of work will you tell us who's right and who isn't? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u7	Congressmasters, members of Parliament, chiefs, ladies and gentlemen, good days, and all the guests who came to us, good morning. Mr. Casanova, like you, had a lot of people here during the lecture I had given her. In the speech and that series of questions and answers, in the speech of September 30, Mr. Casanova, I didn't say who's right or who doesn't have it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u9	For, Mr Lehendakari, as you have rightly mentioned, I was present and I was able to hear how clearly you said that there were those who had a desire for dialogue and those who had no desire for dialogue and, on a premeditated basis, were staging a conflict, when in fact, if you had it predetermined before sitting at the negotiating table, you were supposed to have a different interest from that which you are expressly expressing. So, you were explaining who was the good one and who was the bad one. And understandably, a few words are enough: I think that all of Euskal Herria understood perfectly what you said at the time. Euskal Herria Bildu loves social peace, he would like social peace, but social peace is always a consequence, it is the consequence of social justice. Social peace is not the beginning, social peace is the end. If the alternative presented to us is to swallow or fight, Euskal Herria Bildu will always be with those who fight. In the metal conflict, we are very clear who is right and who is not. A employer who has accumulated thousands and billions of profits in recent years and who does not now want to negotiate a worthy agreement is not right; the workers have the right and the obligation, because the employer with its lock does not give them another option, to manifest, to strike and to go out on the street, and the Government must be, in our view, with whom he is right. You cannot ask for decent work, as you did in your speech, and then applaud those who do not generate decent work, because if there is work that is not decent, whose responsibility is it? He'll be in the employer's field. Zero reproaches for the employer, in their case, always, always. The forestry employer and you either expel or do not admit cooperatives to the Lanbide Council. You made an employment agreement that was practically the outsourcing of employment services, the outsourcing of Lanbide, placing that responsibility on the employer. I am not going to ask you to correct your words, because your words, after all, are an expression of your true political position, and your political position is your political position. Now it's much clearer for everyone. I am indeed going to ask you to correct the workers who still hope that with a government of the Basque Nationalist Party they can be supported by their legitimate demands. You have a Basque agenda and presume to go to Madrid to negotiate things. A Basque Agenda in which there are only high-speed trains that, by the way, are going to build companies – by saying that – "whose owners do not live in deserts far away". But its Basque Agenda does not include, for example, the repeal of labour reform, which is one of the causes of the deterioration of labour relations in this country. The CRL has found that in recent years there has been an increase in the negotiation of the conventions and that, as a result of this increase, there has been a certain recovery of the purchasing power lost in the years of the crisis, but it has also found that this recovery has come from a substantial increase in the number of strikes. It is not this Government that is defending the legitimate interests of the workers, but the workers through organization and struggle.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u11	Mr. Casanova, I'm asking you to consider everything I said. For instance, I accepted the legality of the union demands. I said I knew the music calendar, and I said that the hot autumn had been planned since spring, that I had heard of the meeting, that I knew the proposals made and the efforts to make the treaty. I said all that, and asked to open a process of interviews with a real will to deal. And I ask both sides of this will, and I demand both sides. It was the first day of strike in May, in June two days of strike were organized, and on September 30th the strike began for five days. Among these strikes, the Federal Federation proposes nine proposals, nine proposals to make an agreement. We were so worried about the situation in the sector. So, it's true, Mr. Casanova, I called both sides for interviews and agreements! Without telling me who's right or who doesn't have it, I repeat. In the speech, I wanted to highlight the difficulty of the financial situation we're living in. This is very important. We're seeing more difficulty in this autumn than in May. What I said was that we should unite forces in front of this difficult situation, even in companies. In this way I made a suggestion for a new company model, which has agreed to this legislature, and which requires the admission that the project of business is common, in order to penetrate in part and inclusium. In all my speech, Mr Casanova, over the course of an hour, I have maintained an even position on this issue. And I repeat that equanimity, neutrality To be equal does not mean to be uncritical, it does not mean to be uncritical! I will give you two different examples: you can be critical with the use of violence in a labour conflict, you can be critical with the use of violence in a labour conflict, you can be critical with labor reform. And don't be a crook, because I can also show you the position that members of the Basque Nationalist Party, then deputies in the Congress of Deputies, and I, Lehendakari, being president of the Basque Nationalist Party, had as our opposition to labour reform. You can be critical of violence in a labor conflict, you can be critical of labor reform, we are critical of it, and I hope you are critical of it in both cases too. And I express my solidarity with the workers, also with the entrepreneurs of Metal Smelting, Metal Performers, Drugstone, Pierburg, Aludium, Oñate Hermanos, Berge, Juntas Técnicas, Acha Orbea, Egaña y Cia, CIE Injectametal, Toyota Japan Car, Mercedes... I hope that you are, too, in both cases, and this does not mean positioning yourself in favour of business representation or trade union representation. To find that there have been continued proposals on the one hand, such as finding that there has been a single proposal on the other, is not to stand on who is right. It's recognizing a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalez, together with the parliamentary staff of Podemos to the president, on the opinion of the Euskal AEska in the Biscadic conflict of metal." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u13	Mr. President. For the past few months, that same thing. The workers, the workers of the Vizcay metal sector, one of the fundamental sectors of the Basque economy, are engaged in a process of negotiation and, logically, mobilization in order to update a collective agreement that has been frozen for too many, too many years. In the past months of May and June, several strikes and mobilizations were held, which were massively supported by workers in the sector. Municipal Police of Bilbao City Council Recently, in September, at the end of September, early October, as you know, the unions convened five strike days, five strike days that were also massively supported by the workers in the sector, in defense of their demands and that they also had important social support, in our opinion. In the middle of these strikes, you started out with entrepreneurial statements in the purest Margaret Thatcher style, in which you said that the employer had already done everything she could and accused the unions of not having a desire for dialogue. In the middle of negotiations, when trade unions have made demands, saying that employers have already done all they can to tell trade unions that they have to withdraw their demands, it is telling them that their demands are not legitimate. Some of these demands are intended to ensure safety at work, are intended to update their wages, so that they have decent wages after years of freezing. Therefore, my question is: By your statements are you telling the workers and their representatives that they have to give up their demands in the middle of an open negotiation and conflict?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernández, I invite you to listen to the transcript of my recording, which will, I suppose, be available to the organizers of that day's event. In any case, and in answer to your question, workers do not have to give up job security and decent wages. In fact, achieving more and better employment is the priority objective of our Government, and I believe that by saying more and better employment And I repeat three approaches that we can share from the point of view of the method: first, an inclusive and participatory business model; second, dialogue with genuine will to agree; and third, modification of labour reform. Change in labour reform. The Basque Nationalist Party proposed amendments to change the structure of collective bargaining and collective agreements: they were not adopted. And the Basque Nationalist Party voted against labour reform. We have been closely following the metal situation since 10 May, 10 May. I know the schedule of mobilizations announced and the schedule of meetings. I know the interviews published to secretaries general and trade union representatives, the calls to have a hot autumn and to be more forceful than in the mobilizations of May. I know the demands of the trade unions in 12 areas. I know and note that from the first meeting of 17 May to the last of 25 September the unions have maintained the same claim table since the first day. I note that the Federation of Businesses has submitted nine different proposals. I see a reality. Progress has been made, progress has been made in the negotiating process, from 17 May to 25 September, Mr Hernández. I know him perfectly well. I know what I'm talking about. Progress has been made and positions have been brought closer. Negotiations have continued this week, and I hope that the solution will be closer. It's my wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u17	Of course it will move forward, because they are negotiations. And that is precisely why it seems to us that it is inescapable that in the middle of negotiations and mobilizations you should make these kinds of declarations. Of your statements I have said two things, two things that are spoken for you. You have strictly said that the employer had already done what he could do. And that for us is a very clear message, it is a message to the unions that their claims no longer have room, because if the counterpart can no longer move – and that is the opinion of the government, in the mouth of the lehendakari – how can they aspire to carry out their claims? Your statements, Mr Urkullu, place you in something we have told you many times. We have said that it seems to us that this government is always on the side of the employer and against the workers. It seems to us that these statements are another example of this that we have been saying. If these statements had been made by the employer, they would not have caught our attention. If these statements had been made by any political party, surely we would have criticized him from our coalition, but there each party wherever it wants to be in the class struggle. We have very clear also where we are. That's why I dare to put a sticker on the unions here. But what seems to us to be entrepreneurial is that it is the lehendakari who positions himself in this way in an open conflict, because with his statements, by saying that the employer has already done everything possible, he is telling them that they have to bend their heads to the unions and that they have to accept what the employer has proposed to date. I do not get involved in the proposals of the unions and those of the employer, but when it is said that the employer has already done everything possible, it is telling the unions to bend their heads. I believe that, fortunately, the unions are not going to bend their heads, either to the employer or to these kinds of business declarations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u18	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u19	Entrepreneurial attitude and irresponsible attitude, Mr Hernández, is to transfer to the citizenry, to the public opinion, something I did not say. What I did say is that dialogue with the will to agree has been done by the employer, and I have shown what are the areas of claim in a proposal closed by the single platform, since May 10 to the progress made by the Vizcaine Federation of Metal Enterprises itself. And that is nothing more than finding out what the process of dialogue is, in its case negotiating with the will to agree. My responsibility is to be informed, Mr Hernández, and I have been informed about the strike calls and the proposals made by the Metal Federation. Finding this reality is not positioning oneself over who's right, and I haven't done it and I'm not going to do it. I understand that no one is interested in or benefits from a strike, because the only sure thing is that it harms the company and, therefore, all the people who make up it. I understand that everyone is aware of the added difficulties we face in times of economic slowdown and ailment in the industrial sector. I understand that, if there are proposals put forward and positions that are not so far apart, the agreement must be possible, and I advocate concentrating all efforts on dialogue and negotiation with the will to agree. Tools and tools are available to facilitate this. The Basque Government will follow closely the development of this conflict, with the hope that it will find an agreed solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Berber]] Please, get out! [[Berber]] Please withdraw that sign as well. We'll move on. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the United States of Karetos Priente Euscal, Sociialists, made to the head of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamo, concerning the project of the law of consumers and of the State of the Users." Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u21	President, ladies and gentlemen. Commissioner for Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, today we want to discuss the updating of the Act on the Status of Consumers and Users of the Basque Country, a law that has already begun in 2003; it has been 15 years since then, 16 years. In these 16 years the world of consumption has been substantially altered; at the moment it is consumed differently, new forms of consumption have been incorporated. Distribution systems are also different from those at the time, the impacts of information and propaganda have also been substantially modified. And all this requires a readaptation to the new times. Talking about consumption is talking about production, it's talking about sustainability, it's talking about extraction, it's talking about waste, that is, it's talking about a very cross-cutting policy. Perhaps, without establishing great relations, for example, our own economic crisis, the crisis that we are experiencing here, which is an international crisis that we still have many consequences and that started a decade ago, was due, among other things, to a consumption of credit and an offer of credit that was excessive, that had no support in the real economy and with which it was speculated, and then, in addition, it was located, in a certain way, to those who offered those products and, in the end, we ended up paying them among all. Therefore, as I say with this example, consumer policy is a cross-cutting policy and it is a policy that directly affects the lives of all people. Through consumption we measure the equality or inequality between citizens; through consumption we see how there are niches of people in which there is a vulnerability, because it is easy to sell products on which there is then no follow-up, there is no result like the one expected or as the one promoted in the information. But, in addition, consumption is also related to the capacity of our own planet to supply those consumption trends that are being generated in one part of the world, in a way, moreover, multiplying, while another part of the world that wants to access it cannot access it. Finally, we are dealing with consumption, we are dealing with a policy which, let us say, is also based on an ideology and for which public intervention is necessary, the intervention of the public authorities is necessary. The public authorities have an obligation to invite citizens to be responsible for the consumption, to be informed by the consumer, to be able to protect those who are vulnerable, to have mediation systems in cases of abusive consumption, or to have methods of sanctions to compensate for these grievances that occur between those who sell the products and those who receive them, or between those who sell the services and those who receive them. Above all, there is an ambitious project of your advice, there is a project that aims to adapt it and modernise it in a substantial way, giving great prominence to the protection of consumers and users, and this is at the stage of the preliminary draft law we want today to have an expression in this Parliament, so that it can then have continuity in the rest of the process. I therefore invite you to explain these developments to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u22	Thank you, Mr Price. In reply, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u23	Thank you, President. Egun where we're supposed to be. Mr Prieto, indeed, it is time for a new law to guarantee the rights of consumers. The new forms of consumption and the increase in new technologies for contracting require, among other factors, an adaptation of Basque consumer legislation. The main developments in the preliminary draft, which I will be able to develop at the committee hearing requested at my own request, are as follows: The sanctioning area is adapted to the current regulatory landscape and, as a novelty, the infringements committed by companies in the last two years are publicised. Protection against contractual abuse is enhanced through the dissemination of unfair business practices and clauses. An important novelty, also at an autonomous level, is the possibility that the law will grant Kontsumobide to fix, in addition to the administrative sanction, compensation to consumers for the damage caused by the commission of the offence. This will undoubtedly mean an improvement in the protection of consumers, who will be compensated for the damage caused by bad practices. It is committed to the promotion of codes of good business practice, enabling the Basque Institute of Consumer Affairs to participate in the development of codes of good business practice. In this legislature we have promoted alternative conflict resolution systems. The new law will focus on the public sector and public procurement on adhering to the consumer arbitration system and will be valued as a merit in the granting of aid and subsidies. In service contracts of general interest, such as water, electricity, gas, telephone and Internet, undertakings shall be required to provide a period of remedial action before the provision is interrupted and service undertakings shall be required to provide information prior to their procurement on the effects of maintenance works, large influx of persons or weather conditions. It is sought with this measure that the user is aware of the conditions of service in order to choose whether or not to hire him. And last but not least, the law will provide inspection services with more and better tools to make their task more effective and agile. The inspection staff may not identify themselves when, for this reason, the purpose of their performance may be frustrated. In addition, you may purchase evidence under cover of identity to verify that the products comply with legal requirements. In short, a new law that deals with goal 12 of the United Nations 2030 Agenda: responsible production and consumption, ensuring sustainable consumption patterns, driving changes in attitudes, and seeking that consumers act in a reflective way when buying and choosing sustainable options. This legislature Kontsumobide has invested in actions that allow it to be a consumer reference in Euskadi. The Basque Consumer Institute, with its new strategic plan, focuses on the greatest public projection of its policies and the strengthening of the empowerment of the consumer. In addition, inspection and training campaigns, including trilingualism for the first time, have been strengthened, the Basque system of consumer arbitration has been promoted and the letter of services of Kontsumobide has been approved, which includes, among other commitments to the citizenry, the response to consultations within two days and the complaints within 10 days, completing the processing of them within 45 days. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team for the president, a new political state of the Basque State." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Egun on. A little over a year ago, an impossible task was assigned to a committee of experts appointed by the parliamentary groups of this House, which was to translate into an articulated text according to legality the bases that you – your party, PNV – and EH Bildu had agreed for the elaboration of a new status for the Basque Country. It is clear that the foundations did not call for a reform of the Gernika Statute, but for its liquidation. It fulfills 40 years this month the Statute of Gernika and already sees it old, they see it outdated, and believe that it is not a framework of coexistence that can serve the Basques for longer, or they seek something that is not a framework of coexistence, because the Statute of Gernika has shown that it is. We participated and appointed our expert in that commission thinking of warning about legality, and you told us to trust in two things: one, that these experts were going to widen a consensus that had been impossible in the own paper where those who exercise the representation of sovereignty and popular representation in this House were represented; and that, moreover, that commission was going to fix the dislating of the bases and that it was going to conform to the Constitution and the law. I want to say, a year later, that this is not happening, that I am restless about what is happening there, that you, through the proposals made by your representative in that committee, are putting forward a proposal that goes beyond legality, that does not fit the Constitution, that wants to set up a kind of semi-independent Basque country. It's a very fun independence, it's called a sort of confederal solution. And, therefore, all this very much reminds us of a path that we have already travelled before, and also very much reminds us of a path that they have travelled in Catalonia and that has led to a situation of social division, conflict, impoverishment, economic uncertainty... It reminds me a lot of that road, and I am frankly concerned, it seems to me that it is playing here with fire, and it also seems to me that playing with fire has consequences, not only those that we have seen when it comes to a conflict of impossible solution, but that, when it comes to an impossible, frustration is unleashed and a conflict is nourished, and it feeds those who have not yet here renounced to justify years of hatred, violence, the use of terror against the political adversary; and, therefore, all that is to play with fire in Basque society and to divide it again. And I ask you – I have asked you several times, but I strongly ask you – to stop that and to put an end to that work and to give up that defence of the right of self-determination that you propose in this House, because it has no way out, inevitably leads to a collision with the State. And let them renounce that vision that seems to have permanently the PNV that it has to be a dominant party and that it owns a country, because this is a plural country and its proposal breaks, breaks the plurality and possibility of coexistence that guarantees the Constitution and that guarantees today the Statute of Gernika. Therefore, I ask you – because you announced in this House that this month of October, or perhaps in the autumn, an articulated text would be put forward – to renounce that idea, to return to the margins of the Constitution and the Statute. If you want to reform it, count on me, but if you want to break up, forget it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's see if November 10 comes soon, although I don't know if November 10 will end what we are living, always in the spirit of electoral pre-campaign. Look, Mr Alonso, this Parliament, unanimously, with the agreement of your party, has not instructed the government or the lehendakari to draft the new political status. You have decided that it will be five expert persons proposed by the groups who draw up this proposal for an articulated text. I challenge him as lehendakari. For my part, I have expressed respect for this option and appreciation for the work being done, and I am aware that it is bearing fruit, and there are more agreements than disagreements in what you have called impossible. I have never concealed my support for a legal and agreed consultation that has nothing to do with the right of self-determination, which, by the way, in the year 90 was adopted here in a non-legislative motion, in this very Parliament, Mr Alonso. I have defended and supported a legal and agreed consultation that will enable us to decide the political future of Euskadi. Now, as a lehendakari, I will respect the agreement that will be adopted in this Parliament, and I will do everything in my power to promote the agreement, I will do nothing to harm it. I don't know about you, but the work the expert group is doing deserves, I insist, all respect. And I'm not going to be the one to condition his work from the outside. I do want to insist on a concept which, together with the updating of the catalogue of competences, I consider essential. It is a question of ensuring respect for what has been agreed, respect for what has been agreed. And this is more than the expression of a will. It involves the adoption of legal mechanisms that prevent the parties from unilaterally modifying the agreements reached. Now, since the extension of the agreement-agreement, we have the opportunity to take advantage of the unique additional provision of the Statute of Gernika and to update the rights that have been accorded to us as a people, Mr Alonso. The opportunity to shed light on a formula for deciding the political future of Euskadi and the relationship with the State. I invite you to read the unique additional provision of the Statute, over and over again, as well as article 1 of the Statute of Self-Government. This relationship has been possible, or it has been possible to decide the political future of a relationship in other areas, in Canada-Quebec or in the United Kingdom-Scotland. And what is the problem that you find at a legal and agreed consultation, Mr. Alonso? What's the problem? The bilateral guarantee pact is not something new, we have achieved it with the Economic Concert; we have shown the two parties, the State and the Basque Country, that the model works. We now have the opportunity to modernise and deepen the singular self-government, adapt it to European reality, strengthen the institutional construction of Euskadi and establish the spirit of pact and bilaterality with guarantees. This is the opportunity we have. The Statute of Autonomy is as old as the Spanish Constitution, which has indeed been reformed, at its convenience. We have a new choice. I don't understand where you see the problem, Mr. Alonso. Would you oppose a legal and compacted consultation to determine his future from Euskata? In my opinion, that would be the real solution and the opportunity to strengthen the auto-gravity for today and for increase. And I'll do everything I can to make that consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interadectition by the Congress of the Maddalen Irina EH Collectors to the President, the EAE veta system, the Stated Autonomy, and the new political State of Maddalen." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u29	Mrs. President, thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. On the 28th of June last June, we knew that the State of Spain, by means of the Supreme Court, had abolished the system of the non-unibertsitarian education of Arba, Bizkai, and Gipuia. Again, Supreme. And as I mention the Supreme, there's a hug for the young people in the Alsatsu and all their relatives. In any case, this sentence did not originate in spontaneous generation. Even if a man fails in his memory, let us remember that in 2013 the popular Party, by taking advantage of the majority which he had at that time in the Spanish courts, is under the pretext of the law of LOMCE. And this shows that whenever the State of Spain pleases, it can intervent the education of Arba, Bizkai, and Gipulia, as well as education, with any other part of it. When he wants to break it, he'll break it, and keep breaking it, the State of Guernica. The government of Guernica has been violated by the State, which at this time assigns a complete educational education. The reforming strategy of the Spanish State is becoming more and more different, and we believe that the Basque Country is a strategy, a whole strategy, a very well-considered strategy. You will remember in the pliant of general politics, Mr. Urkullu, that I told you that we saw the chief of the Cristina Uriartes very angry when we heard of the sentence, but it is what remains to us after: I'm angry, but I'm trying to keep my hands tied from there, and I'm gonna be able to make sure that I'm working on that scholarship system. Dede Luego, the other sonia of this government, who proclaims more auto-gronts, to stand by the word, to-day, and to-morrow no great anger at all. And, indeed, there is enough of those who say that we have need of what is, by putting the means. We ought to ask them how long it's been: either before the sentence, or after the sentence, when other sentences arrive. But, well, it's a matter of fact, and I think that's important to me, to see how we look after our people, people who have the most need of need, and people who need them. What's the answer to these people? Twenty thousand students get scholarships according to my data, 350 euros another year, we spend about seven million dollars on it. Baina Sentzia Horrek, Espainiako Auzitegi Gorenaren Sentzia Horrek gauza batzuk dizkio, bear hilarious irakuri handiz beharrekoak, nire ustez. Batetik esaten du "that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has a parallel system". Bigarrena esaten du "which generates important inequalities between the Spaniards". Eta gero esaten du "which makes students not have the same opportunities". I would say there are differences in other things too. I have often told this government, instead of looking at Spain, that we should look at the countries which are better than we are, and compare ourselves with them. But as far as this is concerned, it is plain that the income of Euskal Autonomy is of the State, but is much higher than that of capita; so that we have differences in other respects. And then I ask, before this condition and this sentence, what shall we say to the people of Araba, the people of Bizkai, and the Gipulia, and what shall we do in the Bizkai and Gipus, for it is all I can think of but to go back and get worse and get worse? And what should we say to people? Well, at least let's say that Spain is a gala for us, that it's a brake for us, remora. But I believe that this sentence says more, and I think it must be examined. In this judgment, what is discussed is whether the actual decrees of the State regulating the scholarship system are of a basic nature and prevent the Autonomous Community of Euskadi from establishing other types of eligibility requirements when the scholarships are financed from the budgets of this autonomous community, not from the State. Of course, the basic legislation of the State in this area should only operate with regard to the system of grants and grants when they are financed from the general budgets of the State, but not when they are financed from own resources. The Supreme Court, on the other hand, understands something else, and we have to apply the criteria laid down by the rules of the State without being able to establish different criteria. I think, in this regard, it is also interesting to clarify some terms. Fellowships are not a matter of competition, but a form of administrative activity, which is the activity of promotion. To lay down the basic requirements and conditions of a form of activity without considering the competences over which it is exercised is a way of disposing of competences, in this case, the Statute of Gernika, very clearly. Competence in education is recognized with a particularly broad character in the Statute of Gernika. This is also recognized in the Royal Decree on the Transfer of Education Competence. This competition has been greatly undermined, greatly affected by the State's penetration into the core of competition, in the conditions to ensure equal access to education for all. It has gone absolutely against all that and these conditions of equality, through scholarships for those who need them; now they are decided by the central Government and not by the Basque Government. I find that very worrying. The criteria for granting scholarships from the financial resources of the VAC should be established here and not in the State, what must be guaranteed, I believe, is equality in people's access to this system. We cannot, therefore, guarantee that we shall be able to answer the needs of the people of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia, and it seems as if we should be content to be the sole manager of the state, which I think is not acceptable. The current situation can only be described as a true state of competition exception – I have said it on some other occasion – where autonomous power is completely diluted. And it is not only that the autonomous regime has become a system of management of decisions of others, but also that, with this ruling of the Supreme, the State tells us how and what we must spend our resources on. It is our money, it is the money of each of the citizens of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, but the criteria impose them from Madrid. And the turn that has taken place in the case law of the Supreme Court, I believe, is very serious and puts us before a reality that we have to face, because the competences that, according to the Statute of Gernika, are full, in fact are not. Education, which is conceived by the Statute of Gernika as a competition anchored in our historical rights, has become a competition subject limited to execution. There is no longer a capacity to decide even how and which groups are beneficiaries of our scholarships. In front of all that, there's a light reading. That difference of difference which lies behind the United States of Guernica, which we have often doubted, because we have not seen that it is torn again, if, unfortunately, already existed. Therefore, EH Collect repeatedly repeats that we have to give a quantum leap, a quantum leap, or leap from autonomy to sovereignty, to become a new relationship with the state, and to have a guarantee system. Which will have the Berme systems, or else we will find ourselves again in this state, according to the virtues of the Spanish Government, the wishes, caprices, or strategy of the government in Spain during the course of time. You spoke about political concerts in the last pliant of general politics. Let's fill it with it. EH Collect has been trained to fill up a lot of accounts with it. We're ready to share. We're ready, unlike others, unlike your reputation, and I think it weakens this government, because every time you speak of political concerts, your partner tells you to forget it. We believe, Mr. Urkullu, that education is one of the lines that will lead us to the top of the village, no doubt, we have always said. We need prepared men and women to face and answer the hinges we have and can't imagine. I offered you a pact in the general assembly of the general policy, in the name of EH Bile, in order to act as a state, in this matter we have acted as a state in other times, and I believe that we have no other means left to protect the people, but to give them an answer, and give them the future. That's why the session of today's internship is: What Government intends to do in the presence of this state, how it thinks to give answers to the people, because we owe them answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, it's your turn to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sure you've heard me talk about a confessional self-reference, and I'll take that basis to answer your interference. In addition to the system of education or of self-religion, which we already have, there is an enormous value; our organization has provided us with tools and camps to re-establish our decisions. It is clear that we shall come in a train, that Madame Irrea has brought better well-being and more vital services to the people. The self-recognition is important, both for what it has become today, and for what it has passed. We owe it to our ancestors in a great measure, who fought to acquire our faculties and rights. It is a sign that our desire for a long time has been attained. It is also essential to the extent which it may have in the future that the self-genera is acknowledged. The foundation is, I think, the strong foundation of what we are to build from now on. We could say that around the confessional Auto-pilot there have been two sorts of attitudes which have tried to weaken it. On the one hand, the attitudes which tend to favor the centralization of government, and on the other, which underestimate the auto-generacy. Let us examine first the states which tend to the welfare of the centralization. All governments which have been in Spain have not been observed since the State of Guernica was admitted. It is a sign that at the present day, when almost 40 years have elapsed since the organic law was approved, there are still many transfers still unmade. It's true that our accepted self-egory is still intact. It is therefore worth the attainment of this end, and it is also worth working together, Mrs. Irrez, teams of the legislature together, institutions and society. This tendency, in order not to comply with the law, ought once more to increase the tendency of the state to centralization: this stream that has taken force would like to undo and deactivate some of the strategic tools of our self-portraits. It's very important to consider that our confessed self-organization is not free from suffering. The verdict, for instance, which the Supreme Court has just pronounced upon the Eukadical system, must be placed in the context of this position which favors the centralization. The Supreme Court, however exclusive of education, believes that the euphoric system is attacking the equality of the State, as you have confirmed in your participation. This concept of equality is, I think, a delayable absurdity against the progress of society. Equality and uniformity are all that can be expected from below, and only to stop backwards and forwards. For it is by the decrees and reforms which tend to improve the lives of the people. If they had to equalize their policies from below, there would be no chance of progress, there would be no chance. We must go the other way. We must encourage equality by seeking out the best policy and the proper means of action. The management of public policies, in each area, must be compared to the top of the self-existence. The contrary leads us to promote the culture of decay and injustice and bichtimism. Euskadical beka system ruling is another assault against the self-requestioned automatically, another attack. He's not the first, and I'm afraid he won't be the last one. Like so far, we'll be firm to defend the automatically. The duty to submit to a verdict is compatible, with the right we have to appeal to when we disagree with something, and the means of appeal from as many ways as possible. The sentence against the Basque scholarship system is a new attack on our recognized self-government. The answer is to remain firm. And I believe that to abide by a judgment is compatible with working with tenacity and creativity, also from the unit, to maintain the quality standard of the public services that we offer to Basque citizens in the field of our competences. Because I remember that education is Euskadi's exclusive competence. I mentioned at first that we could speak of two attitudes contrary to the confessional author. It is one, as has been said, which favors the centralization. And the other, as has been said, is he who despises autogony. I'm going to talk about that second one, too. Several decades of political sectors have even underestimated and disapproved the meaning, content and power of confessed self-interest, Mrs. Irry. His supreme legal expression has been underestimated-that is to say, the State-Stateal Autonomy of Guernica. Not only that, they attacked the state, our new organizations, our self-portraits. What did they want to underestimate, reject, or fight? In reality, manufactures, employments, innovations, inquirys, environments, health, education, social existence, equality, and the power of making politics and making decisions in the culture, despised or fought. In fact, they despised Osacides, Borders, EITB, co-workers, University of the Basque Country or Foreign Relations. And we often value what we have when we lose, or when we are on the verge of losing. Often you value what you have when you lose or can lose. So far, probably few people valued what the Basque scholarship system represents to their rightful extent. Now, however, we seem to realize that. The defence of our recognized self-government requires, as a first step, that its value and potential cease to be scorned or despised. It's not something that's fallen from the sky. Nor is it something that should be considered safe and guaranteed. The first thing is to value what we have and become aware of its importance. I invite your group to take this step, to leave behind the past, to leave behind the past and so many attitudes of contempt, contempt or attack on the recognised Basque self-government. I invite your group to defend you in the present and to your projection of the future. The achievement of any conquest needs to put your feet on the ground, starting from a solid base. Here that base is the recognized self-government. The recognized self-government is the foundation and foundation. The singular self-government is the backbone of the future status you are asking me for. Looking to the future is to be aware of the situation in the global world, to analyse the European situation and the Spanish political situation, and to understand our own socio-political reality. And I stress two guiding criteria which are reflected in the spirit which, in my view, encourages the elaboration of the new statute. Firstly, the project for the future must be geared towards modernizing and deepening and guaranteeing our unique self-government. And secondly, we need to develop a viable route, without dead ends. And the way to do that is the tireless search for sufficient agreements in all directions. Within Euskadi, from Euskadi with the State, and in the field of European construction. I understand the project of the new Basque state to deep down our self-reference and develop it as a process. The process must prevent its entering into blind streets, and there will be need of creativity, stability, firmness, and agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u33	Mr. President, I'm the one who's most inbound to interpret this government as to what we're going to answer the people. I don't think I've shown anything else in my interaction today. I've never underestimated the auto-gravity we've ever underestimated. You put it in the value of the self-recognized self-portrait, but the sentence itself shows that whatever or what is in the value of the self-egober, Spain may, I think, cancel at any moment. And I believe that this sentence goes to the core, and that the gravity of this sentence is extreme, I tried to explain that harbinger, when I spoke to him, because Nikolao, among other things, is also contained in our historical rights, and because this sentence has reached the heart. I think there are other things we agree very well. You, well, you wanted to underestimate an attitude that is not mine, dede luego, and what I think is, above all, that we have to look into the future and consider the way we will answer the future and decide. I don't know if it will be our way to change decrees and regulations to submit to what Spain tells us, and I don't want to say anything extraordinary to you. I understand, for a moment, that to cover up the holes that Spain does to the ship, to close the water that comes in, not to drown, it was necessary to do so. That's clear. I mean, I already know that we spend our lives, somehow, closing the waterways that the State opens to us in the boat, which opens them to us very definitely, so that we spend all our energy, precisely, in closing the roads of that boat. All I'm saying is, let's go to another boat. Let us buy a new boat, let us be able to have a boat in which we do not get water and have a system of equal to equal, a relationship of equal to equal with guarantees with the Spanish State. I'm not telling you anything very different than what you said. But you tell me that, well, it has to be a viable itinerary; of course, I also want a viable itinerary, or what do you think? That I want to give up on the street? Of course I want a viable route. But when you tell me that we have to do it with agreements, I also want an itinerary with agreements. Now, with agreements that do not veto what the majority of this Parliament has decided. And, above all, I want to do so in order to be able to respond to the citizenry, because with some agreements we can go forward and with other agreements we will go backwards, we will not be able to respond to the citizenry. And I believe that, of course, in this area and in many others, because the Spanish State relegates us to be managers of what it decides at one time, and I do not think that the future in that regard is very flattering. I believe that, of course, we have enough majorities to work on other possibilities, which, as you say, I too want to see agreed and I want them to be civilized. I don't want things to be any other way. But it is the State that proves that it wants to do it differently. It is the state that shows that he wishes to do things differently by this sentence, by the suffrage of Spain. As I have said this week, in other things: We shall know what will be the price that will be to the trial in Katalunia, which is to judge him. And that will be great, because I think that the other will make it clear that Spain will be able to perform any means which it seems to be watering. And the President of a parliament and the Vice President of a Government are in prison, and there are some local representatives in prison, and I believe that this sentence will show the price, and I believe we have two choices in front of that price: not one day or two days that we shall do, we shall be humble and quiet; but those who will bring us out of this state, as they would always crush us, and crush us like a people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irriart, I think that on your second shift you have given me the reason for what I said on the first round. Look, I tried to describe a strategy and an integrated activity model, and I put it on the principle of reality, and great modifications are made step by step with feet on the ground. I do not know where it is to be to leap from one ship to another, having ships in the port, or being in the sea. I don't know if being in the sea it would be so productive to make that leap. I have reflected on other considerations, but your answer compels me to repeat the meaning of those reflections. Perhaps you doubt this method of conversation and agreement, and not only that, perhaps you do not speak personally, but you speak in the name of someone, and you may even despise and demean it. Maybe you'll think he's a volunteer, because conversation won't receive him on the other hand, but you don't give an alternative. Or rather, you disguise them by alternatives, which are merely gestures of the past and desires, and which is the alternative? Well, I say to myself, "Look at the world." What's the discussion in the international policy? Multiplelateralism or one-sidedness? And hitherto ye have proposed one-sidedness, ye have proposed one-sidedness in the former law, and even in this law. And what is the discussion of the European Union? It is the main question whether global challenges should be solved together or whether each of them will make its own course. What is the dispute about the state of Spain or the political state of Catalonia? Disposition or negotiation? And the wager for conversation, political negotiations, and agreement, has no other alternative than that which will be beneficial in the world, in Europe, in Europe, in the State, or in the Eukadin, much less as we are in a numerous society, and in a legislative without a whole majority. And I'll tell you more, even with the whole majority, this conversation, negotiation, and agreement is always a better strategy. Do you want to tell me that political negotiation is a valid strategy when the conditions are favourable? I ask, do I ask, Mrs. Irart, only when it's worth winning? But I must say, if there is no favourable condition, that strategy is no longer valid, and that we must replace it with an extension and a strategy of triumph, and the question is how? How do you think your manner of thinking will make a way without an agreement, an agreement between us and the state compacted? It's funny, I think it's odd to say, "between" and "remea." Then we must agree with the like and with the guarantee. I am defending an argument which may be proved, compare the strategy to which the left patriot has continued during the last decades and to which the majority of this society has lived, and from the transition to the most severe and severe situations; it has been to defend the conversation, the negotiation, and the agreement of the Euskion during the last 40 years, until the day of the first day. And it's a lot that you've got and it's built. I reiterate that the Basque Government's strategic commitment over the past 40 years has been dialogue, negotiation and agreement, and is the example of progressive self-government, the institutionalisation of a country on a day-to-day basis, and I believe that it is necessary to recognise that much has been achieved and built, and that it has been possible thanks to a strategy based on realism and modulation in insistence, negotiation and firmness in principles. And I'm not talking about castles in the air; I'm talking about what's built, what's real. And I am convinced that in the coming years this strategy will continue to bear fruit, even though circumstances may be more or less unfavourable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interra Guanche Suáz together with the members of the Podemos to the president, to improve the conditions of the Basque population." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u37	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chief departments, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. This summer, we've met the Incest of 2018 p.m. After the report has been reviewed, our concerns have been aroused. Euskadin, 2019, many people and families have lived worse than two years ago. In fact, until the year 1986, we have to go back to find this kind of disturbing data. We knew, as he said, and in a more than discreet way for what his government accustomed to the great headlines, the data of poverty and social inequalities of the year 2018. Data that, curiously, arrived also when the electoral contests had ended, not on the compromised dates. Data that are published without dissemination and show that there are many people in Euskadi who live worse than two years ago, which clearly conclude that in 2018 there are more and more people who live badly and do it anyway. "I insist," worse than two years ago. Evidence that there are two Euskadis, two speeds. Speeds that are creating an ever-increasing gap between neighborhoods, villages, territories and, above all, between neighbours and neighbours. As I said, Mr Lehendakari, we must go back to 1986 to find similar data on poverty, and I do not say that, says the Department of Employment and Social Policy. Today there are more than 480,000 people who do not have enough income to face expenses that, according to the indicators, allow them to maintain a minimum level of well-being and comfort in the society in which they live, 37.4 more than in 2008, the year in which the crisis began. Out of every 10 people there are two who can't afford an unforeseen expense – like breaking a household appliance at home – 55% more than in 2008. There are also more than 172,000 people at risk of poverty or poverty, 20,000 more than in 2016. This means that at 8 out of 10 (sic) In the same years as the numbers of precariousness and inequality grow, GDP has also grown. Specifically, in 2016 a 2.9 and a 2.8 in 2018. But it seems that it only grew for some people. For example, for the very rich, who in this country in these years have increased both their income and their wealth, while the most vulnerable were and continue to be worse despite the large numbers. A crude internal product seems to grow only for a few people. The average salary of the last two years has hardly moved. Inflation, on the other hand, has risen 8,7%. Meanwhile, the richest of our people have increased their income. There are eight Basques among the 100 largest fortunes of the Spanish state, eight men who concentrate more than 4.8 billion euros, with the hand – whatever is said – of elements as questionable as the arms industry. And, meanwhile, the employment of the great social majority in this country, increasingly precarious. Unemployment has fallen to 10%, but it does so primarily on the shoulders of those who have joined the service sector, a sector in which the average wage is 20% lower than that of the industrial sector, a sector which is generally feminised. In these same years the average wage has practically not moved, while inflation – as I said before – has risen by 8.7%. This means less purchasing capacity for the pockets of the citizenry, because the same 100 euros of two years ago today are worth less. Of every 100 contracts signed in the last quarter of 2018, 26 were temporary: 11 points above the EU average and only exceeded by the Spanish State and Montenegro. In addition, Mr Lehendakari, something curious is happening in Euskadi, because this temporality is even higher in the public sector than in the private sector, and everything crossed by a wage gap of more than 10,000 euros between people who have indefinite contracts and temporary contracts; it is also crossed by a gender gap that tells us that they are part-time more than 53% of new recruitments in women and that more than 60% of them assume this partiality in an involuntary way. The average salary, the provisionalness and partialness of labor occur also in public administration; in health above 15,000 workers, more than 11,000 in education. And let us not talk about labour conflictivity in many areas. I'm on it. Euskadi, compared to ten other countries of the European Union, including the State, lags behind in investing in social benefits for children, above only Spain and Estonia in housing benefits. Euskadi, as far as the year goes, has accumulated a 3% increase in housing prices, according to the data made public by the INE this September. Housing with new households that have increased during this period and that are in precarious conditions, homes of young people and single people, usually women, with their daughters and children in charge. And, along with these groups, we also see how the quality of life of older women, who are becoming worse and worse, has worsened. In fact, the number of single women over 65 years of age in poverty or lack of well-being has grown by more than 20% compared to 2008 and by more than 17% compared to just two years ago. And we also see, of course, that in Euskadi having daughters or children makes you poorer, puts you in a situation of greater precariousness and vulnerability, and, in the meantime, what does his Government say to families? They have to have a positive attitude towards motherhood and fatherhood; then, in the day to day, if so, let them seek life. That's why we don't understand what the institutions of this country are doing, and it's because the panorama that it takes is complicated or desolating, I let you choose the adjective. A system of permanent social services in diapers; a right to citizenship is recognized, but neither the means nor the laws are put in place to be able to exercise it; a system that the Government itself claims they are not going to develop; a system that has crevices for which people fall. On the other hand, an income guarantee system that, with the data in hand, shows that it does not stop expelling people; a system in debate, in which parties supporting the Government put on the table a reform aimed at cutting, excluding people and criminalizing poverty and people who cling to public protection mechanisms in order to be able to live. An absent housing system, with a counselor who does not complete the implementation of a fundamental right so that people can live with dignity, but, nevertheless, has no glue in handling an eviction from a survivor of sexist violence with two minors in charge. And a social and economic protection system that has hit the roof, because there are more than 60,000 people in it who, despite being using it, do not come out of poverty, and there are more than 70,000 who, despite needing it, do not access any social protection system. We also have a youth that cannot be emancipated or is extremely late and under very high precarious conditions. Families who are to be and form have to look more at the bank's account than at its wishes or desires and, of course, more than at public institutions, which do not stop making announcements, but on a daily basis they do not help enough. And, in the face of a new crisis, with data on precariousness, poverty and inequality worse than in 2008, there are new challenges that cannot be met with the usual recipes. We hear you talking, Mr Lehendakari, about a wage gap, about climate change, about a territorial gap. However, we do not listen to anyone coming out to announce new measures and policies to deal with and reverse the data that their own report has brought to light. Today, both your government and your party clearly acknowledge that the black threat of the clouds is coming and that the Basque economy is in great danger of delay. You have finally had to recognize that we are in the foreground of a crisis and that the economy is being affected, and the data are clear: families are worse than ten years ago to face a new crisis; more indebted families who cannot pay their bills in time; more families with less or no savings than ten years ago, because saving today is a privilege for many people; and, ultimately, more families who hang on one thread to avoid falling into poverty. If there is no shield to protect citizens from the impact of what is coming, Mr Lehendakari, many people are going to have a bad time in Euskadi, and it is our responsibility as opposition to walk and make your Government walk to take the necessary measures. On this subject, Mr. President, we ask you the next question: What's the Red Beetle going to do about the Incest of the Pods and Society and the bad conditions of living and living? That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u39	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mrs Guanche, I must confess to you that it is a pleasure for me to discuss with you, although sometimes, the truth, after what I have to hear, it is difficult for me not to go into matters which, of course, I believe are neither true nor true. And it's just that we actually share the same concerns you and I. We both yearn for a more egalitarian, cohesive and inclusive Euskadi every day. I believe that, even if you do not see it that way, we agree on many more aspects than it may seem at a time, but I do not think that your diagnosis is correct or true. I am sure that we could reach many agreements on social policies, I just ask you to assume a little more of the complexity of our society. The social dynamics of Euskadi are not as simplistic as you present it. The color palette is neither white, nor black; neither is everything white, nor is everything black. As catastrophic as you and others think, at a press conference or even in these speeches in Parliament, the reality is quite different from this black photograph. I doubt if we really live in the same country. I deny you the greatest, Mrs Guanche: there has been no deterioration in the living conditions of Basque citizens. As regards the interpretation of the results of the Social Poverty and Inequalities Survey module of the Social Needs Report 2018 You participated a whole morning in the presentation of the survey by the head of the statistical body of our department. In addition, he was also offered the opportunity to deepen the knowledge of the data and the trend of this survey, so that he could interpret them correctly. I would encourage you to know in detail Euskadi's comparison with the dynamics that take place in the Spanish State, with regard to the average of the Europe of 28 or the Europe of the euro, but also with regard to the countries with the most egalitarian social policies in Europe, such as Sweden, Belgium, Denmark or the Netherlands. As stated by the author team of this survey, each indicator has its importance, but the analysis of the trend of a single indicator is useless. And these are not my words, but the person responsible for the survey. I want to remind you that the error levels in this survey are 2.2%, and this sample error leads statisticians to be cautious in those interpretations of data moving in very small forks. Before I provide some figures and interpretations of this survey, let me make it clear to you that I will never be satisfied as long as there are people in Euskadi, no matter how few, at risk of exclusion. I assure you that from our department and from all over the Basque Government we will continue to implement inclusive policies. We believe that the best social policy is employment and the main objective of this legislature, to lower the unemployment rate by 10%, is already a reality, although we cannot lower our guard against international uncertainties. The photograph of our society, reflected in this survey, indicates that most Basques and Basques enjoy a comfortable, complete or almost complete well-being. Unfortunately, only 6.1% are suffering from poverty. The photograph of society which is reflected on by this institution shows that most of the Basques have a perfectly comfortable or almost complete comfort. It only lives 6,1%, unfortunately, the state of poverty. You, like me, know that all inequality rates compared to other societies, both the Gini index, and the AROPE, where we dropped 8% from 2014 to 2018, or the Eurostat indicator or the INE's living conditions survey, put us in a better position than the communities in Spain. In addition, we are recognized as the society or one of the most cohesive societies in Europe. And this is not what this government says, as the European authorities say. Euskadi's poverty levels are lower than Europe's average of 28 and Europe's average of the euro. And that's a reality. But you also know, like me, that these dynamic indices and samples are very similar to those of the countries with the most advanced social policies, such as Holland, Belgium, Sweden or Denmark. You know that the survey also reflects in its indicators the emancipation of young people who have launched themselves in recent years to live independently. But why was that? Because they have greater opportunities, because the economy is giving young people opportunities to be emancipated. He also knows that 50,000 new homes have grown since 2016. And that, Mrs. Guanche, is good news. You are aware that in the last two years a large number of migrants with very few resources have arrived in Euskadi, which have increased the percentages of people at risk of poverty. And they are two social phenomena that are also occurring in the most developed countries of Europe and that directly affect the results of this survey. Income guarantee income reform itself sought to address the risk of poverty in the society of families with dependent children. And there we have been presenting these initiatives for a long time, which are currently under discussion in the Committee on Social Policy, and which, if they had been approved at the time, could have affected the poverty risks of Basques and Basques in other ways or were smaller. I am satisfied that the AROPE material deprivation indicator has been reduced by 5.6%, changing the trend of increase observed during times of crisis. We're looking north, Mrs. Guanche. We look to the most developed countries. Today our society is prosperous. That does not mean that there are no people in Euskadi who are having a bad time. In Europe we are one of the richest regions. Eurostat has just witnessed this. Let me make a joke about something as serious as the subject we are dealing with. Despite the tropical Euskadi resulting from climate change, we do not live in southern Europe in terms of social policies or any other matter. We're in northern Europe. Our society is inclusive and supportive, as are the most advanced in the Nordic countries. We have, we do not hide, difficulties. But we have to be realistic and we are moving forward. We are moving forward to reduce those difficulties and situations that need to be corrected. We are proud of our social policies, what we have built among all. And we're going to keep working forward so we don't leave anyone behind. And we would like, Mrs Guanche, to have your cooperation and the rest of the House so that we can move forward and meet these needs. Yesterday I participated in the territorial conference of social services in Madrid, where important issues were discussed, such as dependency, alzheimer and also situations of poverty. And at that territorial conference, some communities were moving their problems and concerns, as more than 41% of the citizens living in any of them, whom I will not mention, were at risk of poverty or poverty. It is true that we still have a lot to do in Euskadi, but I would like, Mrs Guanche, that, although that is a reality, let us also value all the work we are doing. Because Euskadi, for many autonomous communities and for the Government of Spain, is an example to follow and is an example in which they will analyze our policies in order to improve their situation. And sometimes they recognize you so much outside the house but not at home... I think we have to keep pushing and moving forward, because we have a lot done and I think we have a lot to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u41	Thank you, ma'am. Oh, my God! What to hear! For me, Mrs Artolazabal, it is certainly a pleasure to discuss with you and any member of this House, because that is what I am paid for. I am sorry, I have to say, however, that, in the face of a global approach that I have made to Mr Lehendakari, not only is he absent, but you partially answer me, because I have asked him a question that touched on aspects that go beyond his department, and you have also not answered anything. It's not a simplistic vision, no. But it's not my diagnosis either, it's yours. It's yours and I don't believe you say there's been any deterioration, because I'm going to take your own powerpoint. Don't come here and lie to the citizen, Mrs. Artolazabal, that's very ugly. In any case, I have asked you a question and I think it has been a clear question: What is this government going to do to protect people who are in worse condition than two years ago, objectively, based on their diagnosis – not mine, based on theirs – what is this government going to do? I'm not just talking about the Department of Employment and Social Policy. I have questioned the Department of Housing, I have questioned the Department of Labour, and I have done so by asking the lehendakari, precisely because we want to give that general view. In addition, I will tell you, Mrs Artolazabal, that it is very ugly that you use the excuse of migrant homes in greater precariousness, because that does little favor to coexistence. But I will not be the one to get this debate out, because I do not think it is appropriate. I know that statistics, as someone says – I haven't been able to find the source – can be twisted until I say what you want. The clear example of this is when his Government draws the data and the holder is based on the perception of the people. I say one thing to you, Mrs Artolazabal, listen to me because this seems important to me: I hold your hand so that we open a process of dialogue on why in Euskadi people live worse than two years ago and, however, they do not consider themselves poor and say that they care for them. And that's the headline you guys wanted to get off the table. Why does that happen? Why don't people want to consider themselves poor people? Is it maybe because of the crime patina? Because people understand that when they are in poverty it is because they have an individual failure rather than a failure as a society? I, of course, bet on the second. But I'm holding your hand so we can open a process of dialogue. We've asked you what you're going to do, and you haven't answered anything at all. Our collaboration on the table yes: but to cut, no; to apply the same of always neither, Mrs Artolazabal, because that is not working. If you do everything so well, I don't know why by investing so many millions of euros the number of people increases year by year. If the poverty data, as you say, is not relevant or does not get worse, tell me why they say people live objectively worse. This isn't going to invest any more, it's not going to invest in weight. This is going to invest better. And that goes through brave actions and new policies, because the ones we're implementing aren't working. The protection systems are touching the roof, and that is clear, Mrs Artolazabal, as your own data clearly says. It is essential to reduce the Euskadi wage, territorial and social gap by two speeds which you are helping to create. It is essential to reform the protection systems, but in the right direction contrary to what you have proposed from the parties supporting the Government. It is necessary to invest in public housing and to value subjective rights, not to turn them into a race of obstacles in which people cannot access them. It is important to address the demographic challenge, with solutions, not with patches and headlines that people find insufficient. It is necessary to bet on young people, so that they can undertake the life projects they want to have, so that they can have a presence and a future in Euskadi, so that they can be offered an opportunity and not only precariousness. It is necessary, in the opinion of our party, to give security to people we represent, that it is necessary that no one should be left behind, and that the country should be prepared for bad moments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u43	Mrs Guanche, I was convinced that I was going to thank you for the constructive tone of your words, but, as always, what you do is a catastrophic vision, you say how bad it is that Euskadi is, that this is fatal, and that we all have to leave here, because here we have no future, neither young people, nor the elderly, nor any other collective. That means that Euskadi, according to you, is defeated. I would like to repeat to you what I stressed to you in the beginning: we share the same concerns. You know this survey, please don't manipulate it. Always pull out the same data; there are other important data in that survey that you haven't said here. You know that the survey reflects the decline in poverty in food indicators, or that people affected by supply cuts are reduced, and this is what the survey says. Behind the improvement of these indicators there are also palliative initiatives launched in recent years, and if we are in this situation it is for all that we have been doing, not only this Government, but all previous governments. And, of course, I find it very ugly, as you say to me, to accuse me of criminalizing and not to allow me to talk about immigrants. Immigrants are people who live in this country and who have come to have some opportunities that this society is giving them, Mrs Guanche, that we are a welcoming society. Do you want to tell me which society or autonomous community is currently helping migrants who are not in a regular situation to make their lives in this country? You want to tell me just one autonomous community? It is that there is none, the only one is Euskadi, so you of lessons that we have to criminalize the just migrants, Mrs Guanche, the just. On the other hand, it is true that access to new clothes or leisure is deteriorating, I do recognize that. This survey is a survey that, of course, we use to be able to improve all policies, to be able to be successful in the initiatives we have to implement, because it is a survey, as I say, complete and complex, but it is a useful tool for designing our policies, which also reflects profound social changes in citizens' habits. People are increasing in households without savings and the low levels of reserve assets are growing, that's a reality. It is a reality, but for all citizens, not only of this autonomous community, but of the whole State and of all developed countries. Households with no capacity to cope with extraordinary expenditure are also growing, but at a very low level, just 2.2%, the risk of indebtedness, and that is also good news. If in the 1980s poverty stood at more than 16% and in the 1990s we were at 9%, today it is limited to 6%, and that, Mrs Guanche, is objective data. I ask you to keep with just three conclusions of the survey, you then do whatever you want. First, most of the Basque population lives in a comfortable well-being, and they are data that appear in that survey that you have also read. The subjective perception of poverty barely reaches 2.7% of the population, and the percentage of income of 10% of the poorest population in relation to GDP is at percentage levels above those of Sweden. He knows that in this survey we also attach great importance to the Basque system, such as that of RGI, such as that of the CPV, such as that of the ESAs. The survey also reflects the success of our system to which only 2.8% of the population does not access, almost the total of the Basque population is protected by the Basque social protection system. It is not perfect, Mrs Guanche, and we want to improve it, and we also want to have a more effective and efficient system from solidarity and inclusion. We see an opportunity for improvement in the adoption of the proposed law for income guarantee income and social inclusion. There we have a tool that can allow us to help the people who are worst going through it in this society, and, if you want, Mrs Guanche, you have my hand stretched out so that we can reach agreements, you know it from the beginning, you know it from the first minute. We encourage her to tie her shoulder so that she can achieve this goal. We have always been a solidarity people, so I do not allow you to tell me that I am going to criminalize any collective, and social policy has always led it from the consensus, Mrs Guanche. I encourage her to join those agreements, and that is that, moreover, we have not done this work, as I said, neither this Government nor the institutions, but we have done it with a very committed and very powerful third sector. I, Mrs Guanche, encourage you to make real policy, encourage you to reach agreements in the future commitments we have. If in the 2020 budget negotiation you believe that there are opportunities for improvement for these groups, our hand will be stretched to reach them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The eighth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Joseph Ramon Becerra Carollo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head of the economics and the sub-governed department, about the increase of the frontier tax announced by Trump." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief Department, the congressman, good day to all of you. Mrs. Tapia, in the last few weeks, President Trump of the United States has announced that he is going to lay down a few restrictions for several products, and among them the wines, cheeses, and oils will be new limits. You've asked for assistance in your statements, the European Union, and the State Government, to say that they must take measures, but you didn't say that, seeing our self-portraits, which means we have the means to challenge them here. And that's my question: What can we do against it when we see our auto-organization and the tools that our state of Guernica offers us?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Mr. Becerra, as you have mentioned, we found out that he's planning to set up border taxes or at least that President Trump has threatened, but he's not the only threat in international life. And about that, I should say, first, that our economy, Eukadic economy, has done an incredible amount of work in internationalizing. By which means I think that every product that comes out of the Basque is situated in the world, and exports have increased more and more; you know for the last two years that they have been recordable. And that was, in a sense, a better answer to our economy to the crisis, which must be said to be behind it. So I think we have to keep working internationally, because we can't leave it at the same time, and we have different international instruments and we've set them up. On the one hand, we have our resources-that is to say, the SPRII agency, the International Agency, and, even, what we do with the rest of the company, whether with commerce or with the ICEX of the state, we have all the means to provide services to our corporations, whether they be small or great, and we have a strategy, as you know, that they're conducting international initiatives. Always considering what challenges are, what's going on in the world's level and where we can go to sell our products because those countries are suitable. And, considering that, we have to keep doing all our efforts together. What's going on? Now Trump has threatened us, but not only that, but we have Brexita's subject. If the subject of Brexita is ill-conditioned, then the limits will appear, either because they are placed, or because they are not, but because it will be a third country. You ask me what to do in front of that. Well, we propose three sorts of measures: On the one hand, demand the State in Europe, as it is Europe, to defend the interests of the States. Why? Because the surrenders have no place, because they don't let us keep our position and protect our position, right away, as Euskade. So the state has to do it and we keep our position by talking to the state. Secondly, there is a Board of Religions in Europe that does not have much to do, but there is a fast runaway, and there are also nets, agricultural, Regal net, and industrial level, like Vanguard's net. We also propose to use these networks. They may not be so useful, but at least we will use them. And, on the other hand, to do everything that is in our power, being subsidy, promotion, or augmenting our presence, has been introduced both to one and to the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u49	You mention three types of action to be taken. I would say that before the measures, we must reflect on where our country's internationalization policy has gone in recent years, a certain self-criticism, because you mentioned the strategy of internationalization, I mention the plan of corporate internationalization. There are six countries with one priority: of those six countries, the United States, the United Kingdom and China are turning their backs on us. So, we have had the opportunity to update our internationalization strategy, and yet we are influencing those countries which, being promising, cannot deny it, yet are turning their backs on us. Then, somehow, we would have to reflect on where we want to go, and, in particular, with regard to food, we have the 2017-2020 PEGA, one of whose axes is internationalization, again. But, together with internationalisation, it talks about the development of local markets, and yet today you are talking to me only about that internationalisation, and, moreover, the only measure that I have seen you, just as you will have to make more concrete, is to announce aid worth EUR 2 million to the wine sector. And, in the statements they make, I draw the attention that I will expressly read to you, you said: "Tapia and the representatives of the sector have agreed that, despite the threat of the new charges, the relevance of the United States market prevents abandoning exports to that country." It's not that we want to continue exporting, no, it's that Trump is telling us he doesn't want us in that market. Therefore, to focus on the same, moreover, somehow, I do not know to what extent it is realistic and feasible. And you kept saying, "That's why the government and industry have committed themselves to strengthening their advocacy strategies in the United States." I do not see the point of strengthening our promotion strategies in a country that is telling us that it does not want us. I invite you to reflect on this and to develop new strategies to develop, on the one hand, the local markets that assume part of that production and, on the other hand, to change our way of producing: produce less, but produce better; produce in ecological, produce at high added value, for markets that are closer, that is the European market, that are demanding organic products and that are certainly not going to behave as Trump will surely behave with us in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u50	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u51	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Becerra, I think it is precisely with the sector that we have to think about, with whom we really know what their product is and where they have to sell it. And if anything we have concluded is that we are precisely continuing in the United States, we are continuing in China, we are continuing in those countries that are really a potential important market, and yesterday we were also talking about boosting the local market, doing it in an appropriate way, diversifying markets and seeking alliances in other sectors that allow us to try to take these products elsewhere. But, of course, a reflection without the sector makes no sense. And, in this case, if there is unanimity in which the United States remains important, let us work on it, and work on it in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u52	Thank you, chief physician. 9th point on the subject list: "Interadectition by Ander Rodriguez Lejarza EH Collectors to the Chief of Emplegus and Polynic Society, about 126/20 Decretums of the Old Worlds of the Esunomies of the Esalcal Autonomy. " Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u53	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mrs. Chief, good morning. Good morning, everyone. To-day I speak with the care of asking the persons who live in the centres, and also of the conditions of labour which are worthy of the care of those who labour in it. In the first place, we must all consider the importance of the matter. At the present day, 18,000 people live at the House of Membership, who are working for 18,000 workers in those centers. How long will it take a guard to take care of each resident in a day to guard him with dignity? The government is responsible for regulating this time of attention by decree. So, Mrs. Artola generous, you've been able to change and improve the reality of either of them. You accepted it in the month of July, but unfortunately you refused. What is this reality to change? I can use my words to describe this, but I prefer to have the loudspeaker of voices you haven't heard today, the voices of the egoile families and the voices of the working women. These are the words of a relative: "The workers don't have time to stay with the residents. It's happened to me, for instance, to go to my mother and see a woman crying there. The workers don't have time to grab him by the shoulder and ask him, "What's wrong with you? "I don't know. "In the mornings my mother often wants to go back to the bathroom, but she can't get out of bed alone and wait for the assistant. On the other hand, they said they couldn't take him to the bathroom right now. These people leave a mark on my mother for the rest of the day. "The Italians often complain, but know not how to explain what they feel, where they suffer. They're also hard to tell if they're hot or cold. Our mother, for instance, is often sweaty, and we often put a light jacket over her, and we call her "my mother," when you go into the dining-room, "but she forgets about it." Then we go away and, of course, mother with a bad face: "Mother, what's the matter? "I don't know. And often it's enough to bring her back a little cloth around her neck, and her face changes too. It is necessary, however, to meet the resident, and the workmen have no time for it." And what do the workers say? These are the words of certain guards: "We can't treat residents as they deserve. We have to run. We've got 15 minutes to wake up, get up, dress, and have breakfast. The physical exploit is constant, and working with the timewatch is even harder. It is an hour and a half of the time given to the resident directly in the synagogue: all day long, rise, shower, dress, breakfast, all added, only an hour and a half." What was your chance to change this reality, Mrs. Artola generous? The decree of the senior centres of the Esunomics, approved on the 30th of July. I will leave out the new material claims which regulate the decree, that they will never apply to the established centres, as the former is received in the past Xedaetion. As for the workers' offices, the report of the legal advisers of the service of your department was uncovered by the carelessness of the decree. It was as follows: "About the staff ratios. No justification for this is provided in the brief accompanying the file. As a result, we can only reiterate what has already been mentioned at the beginning of this report as to the need for a technical basis for analysing the reasonableness of the specific options contained in the draft". This opinion is poured by a lawyer from her own department. That is, you have regulated the care of thousands of dependents and the working conditions of thousands of caregivers without any technical foundation. But not just that. It has decided on the future of caregivers without taking into account the experience and opinion of different institutions and entities, pioneering standards in our immediate geographical area, such as Gipuzkoa's, studies of expert persons, Ararteko's resolutions and reports, international recommendations, contributions made by women workers, concerns – which are many – of families, and so on. You wanted to sell to us that the new decree will improve the attention given at the hotels: a lie. It's a lie, because the devil is in detail. Changes will cause real attention to be mistaken in a number of cases. Moreover, the Government's decree retrotracts care from residences to levels 20 years ago; it is cutting women workers'direct care time to care for older persons. And why? In the decree of 1998, the ratios were determined in the whole work. But then there was work and what is day is not the same. Twenty years ago, the yearly work of the guards who put it in the collective exchange was 1,800 hours old. Today, on the other hand, it's less than 200 hours in Bika and in the gym. In other words, people with dependency will receive 200 hours less attention per year. In a decree, the ratios must be determined according to the minutes offered for attention, and not according to work. The new decree reduces the support due to the residents: and, on the one hand, the workmen will have less than five minutes every day than twenty years ago to look after residents. In the person who is moderated, half an hour a day: It will reduce their attention to them for more than half an hour. All this will be at the homes of Biscay and Gipu. The situation of the Araban will be quite different from that of the contract of labor in force, with very frivolous conditions. This is another key of the decree: the notorious imbalance of the countries. You can hardly explain to me, Mrs. Artola generous, why: why a man of great dependence deserves ten minutes of attention rather than in the Gipuzian Aran. Despite your particular effort to sow the idea that the new decree guarantees, literally, "a greater welfare for the elderly", you have only reaped denied everywhere. The Arab Parliament has stated that there is no impact, since the staff ratios of the directly managed centres are higher than those determined in the decree. In Bizkaia, in response to the 2017 Foral Residence Service Delivery Concert, we again verify the null and void practical impact of the new decree. And the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council has also stated that staff ratios are already being implemented. The harvest of denials also includes her own vice-counsel, who in a report dated 22 July derails the very limited or zero impact of the new decree on private management residences. It is not the only voice of his Government that leaves in question the conditions of care of the new regulation. In the context of the various calls for strikes in the residences of the elderly in Gipuzkoa, the councilwoman San José, who is not present at the moment, has approved various orders to ensure the essential maintenance of services to the community. Well, if we meet these conditions, the Department of Labour and Justice understands that with only 87 minutes of direct care for severe and large dependents, 87 minutes, only 87 minutes, that is the only way to guarantee the lives and health of residents. On the other hand, the new regulation adopted by the Department of Employment and Social Policy places it in just 77 minutes, 10 minutes below. What should we conclude from this? Is the Department of Labour and Justice abusing minimum services to impede the right to strike? Or are you, Councilwoman Artolazabal, compromising the health of residents? Now that I'm talking about strike, I can't go on without mentioning the thousands of guards on strike at this moment in the gym. Our solidarity and support to women workers on strike, because without decent working conditions, decent public services cannot be guaranteed. We thank them and all those who have been struggling to improve our care system over the past few years. They are improving the public system, they are. And we may continue to make more comparisons, but it has already become clear that we ought not to take any notice of your remarks, but made of new regulations. And they show you haven't taken advantage of your chance. So, my question is: What will you do to ensure the welfare and attention of the 180,000 elderly, considering that the new decree, in practice, reduces the time of attention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u55	Thank you, ma'am, again. Egun on, Mr Rodriguez, and let me welcome you to this parliamentary rostrum, ongi etorri. Knowing his previous institutional background well, I have no doubt that we are going to debate much and intensively about social policies. Today we have an inquiry into Decree 126/2019 on residential centres for the elderly in the Basque Autonomous Community. This decree represents an advance in the consolidation of the Basque system of social services, and we continue to take well-established steps from coordination between the institutions, subsidiarity and collaboration with the third sector. I will not deny you that the management of this decree has taken a lot of work. In the planning of the Basque system of social services we always seek to advance from respect for the needs and characteristics of the care network in each territory. As you know, we also always try to respect the autonomy of each institution, and we believe that progress is only being made in building a system of public responsibility by continuously improving it from pre-existing realities. The drafting of this decree has taken many months of contrast and of technical and political criteria in order to make progress, dozens of meetings with many contributions and with large doses of listening. We have always made ambitious decisions in the search for consensus on a realistic basis with a minimum common denominator. I want to thank, first of all, you, Mr. Rodriguez, and I don't do it with irony. I'm really telling you to understand that thank you, because, as you well know, this process of participation and contrast that has led to the adoption of this decree, began already in 2014. Then you were responsible for the social action area of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council. During his term of office, the technical team of the Gipuzkoa Diputation attended more than a dozen technical meetings to advance on the limbs of this decree. Subsequently, also with the same technicians in the Diputation, work continued on the drafting of the same. And I really want to thank you for the involvement and institutional collaboration of that time. In relation to the arguments of your inquiry, I will try to explain to you some aspects of this decree. The decree does improve the ratios of direct care to dependent grade 0 and 1 persons, and by 23% more in grades 2 and 3. This, moreover, bearing in mind that, when we make these accounts, we do not take into account more than the direct care staff, Mr Rodriguez. And that is also important, because in the previous ratios were included people of administration, management and so on. I would also like to give you some details of this participatory multilateral process from which this decree arises. In this coordinated work, one of the first decisions taken was to draw up an exclusive decree of residential centres for the elderly, without including the regulation of other accommodation services such as community housing and supervised floors, given the complexity of all resources. That was one of the initial priority measures taken when this work began. The specific legislation on the subject in the three historical territories was compiled for further analysis. He stayed with the three deputies and looked at the reality that each of the deputies had. I would like to remind you that the regulation concerning Gipuzkoa was also referred to our department as a member of the last legislature, and more than 10 meetings of the working group were held to prepare the first draft of this text. Subsequently, meetings have also been held and successive meetings held. The mechanics of operation was the implementation of proposals, previously drawn up in the various administrations involved, and immediately afterwards discussed them at the group meetings. In 2017, already in this legislature, the Basque Parliament was informed of the structure and the basic content of the decree, thus fulfilling its response to a GNP which, in February, urged the Government to provide a text within three months. In June 2017 a public consultation procedure was initiated prior to the drafting of the decree, and after the deadline, numerous contributions were received. The project also underwent the hearing procedure provided for in the current legislation, sending the project to 26 colleges and entities, and multiple allegations were also received. All this so that he can see that it was done in a participatory way and that we did not invent it in the Government, nor were we enlightened when making the decree. All the contributions have been analyzed and discussed in these working groups and this decree includes allegations, made, among others, by Zahartzaroa, the Social Work College of Gipuzkoa, the Occupational Therapists College, the SATSE union... In short, by many agents who had something to say in relation to this decree. A mandatory report is subsequently requested from the Inter-Agency Authority for Social Services, the Office for Economic Control and the Basque Economic and Social Council. And the plenary of the Basque Council of Social Services issued, on February 5, 2018, a mandatory report. And that draft decree had 20 votes in favour, one against and two abstentions in that body. Therefore, this decree obtained a more than qualified majority to follow its process. Taking into account all the contributions, which all the agents – yes, agents, gave equal status – wanted to make, following the observations made during the processing, a complementary economic memory was presented, because it was also a requirement that we had to meet; and all the information related to the processing is available to all of you and to all citizens on the website of this Parliament. Besides, we must say that we have worked for this purpose by determining and preparing the decree of the seat centres: First, to ensure the necessary care and personal resistance of the users, the second to ensure that they hold their relations, and that they continue to share in the communal environment; and the third to give way to their security. In addition, as I said, I have to add that all the institutions involved in the definition and drafting of the decree of residential centres have worked to ensure three fundamental aspects that we believe to be very important, such as: guaranteeing to the users the care and personal assistance necessary, that was the priority of the decree; secondly, ensuring that the users maintain their relations and their participation in the community environment; and, finally, promoting their sense of security. This decree encourages the transition from a more institutionalized residential care model to a more community-based model that focuses on the person and his or her abilities. The decree also defines that the model of care will be comprehensive and person-centred. And this decree also defines an individualized care plan where the participation of the individual and his family is fundamental. And all in line with what the Social Services Act says. This decree therefore also complies with the quality criteria laid down in the European framework for quality volunteering in social services. And, in applying this Community approach, Mr Rodriguez, we have made progress in this decree. Your question of "what are we going to do to ensure well-being and proper attention to these 18,000 older people and to the future generation of older people." I have to tell you that we are going to do it with ambition, but also with responsibility, that public management requires responsibility, and that means being able to sustain it budgetly, that is to say, to guarantee what is committed to the rules. And the now replaced decree, that of 1998, was already beginning to point out what its purpose was, and it said – I read literally – "to overcome the deficiencies observed in the aforementioned Decree 218/1990, mainly as regards establishing requirements of very complicated and costly compliance by residential social services for the elderly". In this decree we have tried and done an exercise of verifiable improvement regarding the previous decree, but also of responsibility, Mr Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u57	Thank you, Mrs. President. Well, unfortunately, chief of the Artola generouss, your explanations have been disappointing, we don't see or care or turn back. The position of the Government seems therefore unacceptable to us. I'll explain the decree. You don't have to explain it to me. Look, when we were making estimates of the actual impact of his decree on the staff, one of the things that surprised us most, like his lawyer, was that he has no studies. Where did you get this number? Well, it's very simple. You've made a model – in the end we've managed to find out – you've made a model that we're going to call model Marty McFly I have told you what the three delegations think about the real impact on attention. I have also reminded you of what your own vice-counsel says; I do not know if you will cease it, because you have taken the opposite from her. But, as you question my word, we are going to read one of the allegations received, which is the allegation to your decree presented by Lares – Lares-Euskadi I mean –, the association that manages more than 30 centers, and more than 1,000 centers in the Spanish state. And I'm going to read you the literality of what you say about your decree. "The different combinations of profiles 0, 1, 2 and 3 could lead to lower requirements for staff of geriatric assistants and DUE even in the new decree. There is no evolution in the identification of attention profiles. It has been almost 20 years and continues to be divided into two large groups. Equipping grade zero and grade one is a departure error, when not an empirical absurdity," he says about his decree. His decree is an empirical absurdity. And he concludes: "Finally, a draft decree with a lot of letters, many demands coming from ISO-type regulations, but with a content more than questionable in fundamental aspects, such as the real sensitivity of staff ratios to resident profiles." This says about your decree. Look, the reality that outlined the voices I have gathered in my brief intervention comes from the residences of Gipuzkoa, a territory in which a large dependent is guaranteed 30 minutes more daily attention than you, counsel, collect in your decree, 30 minutes more. Even so, we see that users, their families, workers do not have enough time for care, enough time for affections. Look, we're not talking about an accessory public service or a second, we're talking about the lives of 18,000 people. How their last years of life pass, how they are cared for, cared for, considered, treated, since they get up, bathed, dressed, showered, smiled, asked how they feel or are fed, how long a caregiver spends them. Besides, it's a place we're all gonna have to go one day. You, me, our mothers, our parents... It will be up to us to pass on to all of us. Look, going through an apartment for four years and not really thinking about how to do better for me seems like a big irresponsibility. It is not realizing the magnitude of what is being regulated. It's regulating whether we're going to have dignity in our lives when they have to take care of us. And they're not thinking about doing it better, actually, they're doing it worse. They're regulating worse lives. The living conditions of 18,000 people who are in public responsibility residences are becoming worse. It is regulating that women workers have less time to take care of, care for and treat with dignity. This decree does not improve, it worsens the care of the residences – in fact I refer to it –, it does not increase the times of care, but it reduces them, and it does not include any more services, and they will not give more services, but less. Mrs Artolazabal, reflection, reflection. Withdraw this decree, because it is a veritable demeanor; I do not say it, the entities themselves say it. And it will cause irreparable harm to the dignity of dependent people who spend the last years of their lives in residences under their responsibility. Do not hide in other organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u59	Thank you. Mr Rodriguez, although you are perfectly aware, I would like to stress some nuances to your words. This decree lays down minimum requirements to be met, but from these ambitious minimums, parliaments can improve what they think is appropriate. That's for us to start making things clear. What this decree does not do is regulate the working conditions, nor the negotiations of the convention of the workers of the residences, and I hope and trust that this long conflict can be resolved as soon as possible. There are many aspects of improvement that this new decree has regarding the previous norm, and, if you want, we arrange a meeting with my people and come you and try to explain all those improvements, because it seems that you have not had to detect them. Mr Rodriguez, the new decree not only improves the ratios of the 1998 decree in residential centres, but also introduces other important improvements related to the quality of care. You tell me to withdraw the decree because the associations don't want it. For in the Basque Social Policy Council, I have told you before, 20 voted in favour, only one association voted against and two abstentions took place. Therefore, that decree will not be so bad, if it has had majority support in that council. And I believe that the withdrawal of the decree is not requested of me by associations, but, in particular, by some union. As you well know, the Basque system of social services is involved in the three levels of Basque public administrations, and the regulatory competence of the Government must be carried out from the interinstitutional cooperation and according to the previous trajectory and the reality of each territory, as we did when you were a Member; you were consulted with all administrations to see the reality, to be able to move forward, because social policies, as you well know, are divided into different territorial areas and their competences. And that is also a community approach. What have we done to ensure the well-being and proper care of these 18,000 people? Well, I emphasize the verb "guarante" The decree also improves the percentage of single rooms. The requirements of people in making the ratios excluded indirect care staff, as I said earlier. He talks about multidisciplinary teams, proper degrees, health care, physiotherapy, in short. Also improvements in pharmaceutical care. Of a lot of initiatives that, of course, I think are also very important to improve the quality of services that older people are being provided in residences. We were also talking about the risk guidelines and improving physical attachments, as well as the combined use of daytime or temporary stays. Adopt, improve and, thirdly, move forward, and all these aspects are undoubtedly progress with respect to the previous decree. And we have done so, Mr Rodriguez, from the institutional consensus that requires a regulatory commitment to third parties, when it is they who assume the management and financing of the regulated service: in this case, the three outlaws. I, Mr Rodriguez, would like to reiterate my thanks to you again. I hope that we have a lot of debate, but I believe that the attitude towards this decree, as, when it was a Member, was demanding, loyal and facilitating, I hope that it will also be so in the future. But I believe that this decree, which has been agreed with the three parliaments and the Euskadi Social Policy Council, is a good decree that will allow these 18,000 people to be better cared for in the residences and that will make the conditions better than they had before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interface, the members of the Basque Society of Laura Garrido Knörre, a member of the Populative Groups of Eplegus and Polystic Society, concerning the failure of the Eescal families." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Well, again, counselor, talking about family policies. He's going to tell me that again and I'm going to tell him the same thing as in the previous four interrogations. This one's five. But it is that the circumstances and, above all, the balance of its management at the head of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, therefore, deserve it. It could not be in any other way that this group, which has in some way flagged many initiatives in relation to family policies, seeing what it has seen and seeing the absolute inaction of this Government in this matter, has decided, as I say, to present the fifth inquiry. In the previous one, almost less than a year ago, we were talking about whether it was possible for the Government to take a turn in family policies, family support, conciliation and co-responsibility. Today we are talking directly about failure, Madam Counsellor, we believe that, less than a year before the end of the legislature, we can already speak clearly of failure, above all, moreover, taking into account a certain spectacle that is being seen in relation to one of your star measures that they wanted to launch, but which, by the way, is not yet a reality. For us, family politics are a priority, which is why we've introduced so many initiatives in this legislation. With this interference, we introduce the fifth interpellation and make it to the chief physician. It's true that we've even introduced motives, and it's logical to make a motive out of this initiative. As I said, the balance sheet is absolutely negative: they have done nothing and, moreover, how little it seems they are doing it wrong. Look, I'm going to give you a quick reminder, because then I want to stop precisely in your star measure, in the voluntary paternity waiver. But you are well aware that the III Inter-Agency Family Support Plan ended in 2015. The adoption of the framework containing the lines of action in concrete measures has been absolutely delayed. The Basque Strategy for Investment in Families and Children is approved in January 2018. We are talking about that the III Plan ends in 2015, and you have been a counselor since 2016. I therefore believe that you have some responsibility in the leadership of family policy that you already have to start taking over. The evaluation of this plan is also late, because it comes in 2017. The approval of the IV Inter-Agency Family Support Plan, when the previous one, as I said, ends in 2015, comes in 2018. But it is not that you have been delayed in the adoption of the frameworks containing the concrete measures, in which you also have specific and specific powers, some of them exclusively; it is that you have then been delayed in the adoption of the instruments necessary to implement them, that is, the concrete tools that you have to collect these aids, these concrete measures, as I said. I am referring to the corresponding decrees. The only measure adopted to date, Counsellor, is the increase of an annuality, from two to three years for the second child. But do you know when this measure was foreseen in the 3rd Family Plan? In 2014, and it arrived last year, in summer 2018, and with retroactive effect, because already 2017 must be remembered that they also passed it off. But it is that, in addition, you were available, you had money to spend, and you have been unable to advance the corresponding decrees and speed up their processing, the modifications to spend the money, which has also been significantly increased by the People's Party through its amendments. Look, if we see the implementation of the 2017 budget, 30.7 million you executed 25.7 million. They were left with money in family policies. In the fat game of conciliation, 31 million, you execute 26. But the story repeats itself in 2018. Because, you can tell me "well, it's the first year of the legislature, between which I put, I don't put, like." You're a counselor, you're the most responsible, I have to remind you. It is that of 34 million in economic aid to families, 24 are executed. I mean, we're not talking about two or three million less, we're talking about 10 million less. If we talk about conciliation aid of 33 million, 22 are executed. But then comes his star measure. Casuality, moreover, you announce it by drum and platter – as is customary in your apartment, to announce things by drum and platter – yes, then we will see when they start, because the palace things go slowly, seems to be. On March 21, 2018, she announced here in this rostrum, about the full family profile and demographic challenge. He's making his star proposal. We have to say that, year and a half later, the Zapatero Government is not in operation, Madam Councillor, which have been faster in the central government, the Zapatero Government. You do not know what vision you have of the country and of the people and of Basque citizenship, being a government of the people, but it is that you in that writing have allowed yourselves the luxury of establishing additional conditions for workers in the private sphere who do not have workers in the public sector, despite the continuous warnings, in addition to multiple organs, reports to which I will now refer. They are discriminations that have to do with establishing additional requirements, which make this measure absolutely discriminatory with respect to public sector workers. We no longer speak only of the duration, in the public sector 16 weeks, in the private sector 18 weeks; it is that you set requirements such as that you cannot go to a nursery. I am going to focus on the issue of the home worker now, and I am going to dwell on it a little bit, because it has also been the subject of specific recommendations in some reports, such as in a report by its own department, in the ESC report, in the Cojua report. Simply, Madam Counselor, chaotic. Well, not to mention the self-employed, whom you demand you have to hire someone else full-time. I understand that this is not a simple issue, because in the end, when one raises a voluntary paid surplus for the non-pregnant parent and assumes that he is going to pay the salary and social security contribution, it cannot be easy, because, obviously, it is not about paying a holiday. I understand that, Counselor. I understand that when you announced the measure here on March 21, 2018, you had already thought of this measure, that is, you didn't take it out of your sleeve, although well, it might also have been taken out of your sleeve, as seen. But you've had a year and a half. It is that you have warnings in specific reports. I would like to refer to the ESC report, which is dated 19 July this year, which clearly states that the exclusion laid down in this article is not shared, in relation to the requirements of the beneficiary persons, with respect to the household employee, since she may be performing functions in the family unit which are not related to the minor persons covered by this measure. In addition, this limitation could have a negative impact on the working conditions of the household employee. The same is the ESC's warning. And you, in your last draft decree, are that you don't change it, and you change it with respect to housewives when it's already in the press last week and there's a certain scandal going on. This is a rather unfortunate matter, the way it has been handled by the Basque Government and its department, and you as responsible. Look, I'm just going to tell you – because I have little time and will continue in the second round – that you, of course, have no credibility in family policies and your management is terrible, that, of course, the balance sheet could not be worse and that, to top it off, the expectations of thousands of Basque families who believed that this government, with which it was and with which we have, was going to do something. But you haven't done anything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u62	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u63	Mrs. head of the table, thank you. Mrs Garrido, we are again debating, as you said, in this rostrum on family support policies. It's a classic between you and me. Just a few days ago the Lehendakari Urkullu reiterated that facing the demographic crisis was one of the keys to Basque society, a challenge of present and future, and gives me the impression that, despite denying it, you are the most convinced supporter of the Lehendakari's approaches. Moreover, thanks to its insistence, it allows us in this Parliament to pay special attention to policies to support families. So thank you very much, Mrs. Garrido. Allow me to make a strong statement, and that is that the Basque Government is giving strong support to family policies. I can't be against your claims any more. And we're moving forward on those support policies for those families, and I'm going to prove it to you throughout my intervention. If it's not in this first part, it'll be in the second. For the development of the numerous measures, the Government has planned an investment for the period 2018-2022 amounting to 1,764 million euros, 1,764 million until 2022. Of that investment, 1,244 are directly managed by the Department of Employment and Social Policy, and in 2018 all institutions signed a Basque Pact for Families and Children. This agreement contained concrete and clear agreements. This agreement was unanimously approved at the Basque Family Council and, therefore, in 2018 and 2019, we have made progress in the design, planning and implementation of all initiatives that clearly support Basque families. What else do we have to do? Of course. But what have we done too many? Also, Mrs. Garrido. So don't go on, please, anchored in your speech loaded with clouds and completely away from reality, because it's not true. We do not compete in something that we have a shared interest in, such as supporting families, and I assure you that your interest is not more than mine, nor that of my team, nor that of the Government. We have a long way to go and we have fulfilled all the public commitments; because, when you tell me that I have done nothing, it is that, really, I don't believe you either. The Basque Government stresses the importance of families as centres of human relationship and social, affective and community education, and we promote policies that facilitate the realization of their vital project in the best possible conditions for people with family responsibilities and those who want to constitute a family. We try to overcome economic or labour difficulties that may prevent it and we promote the progressive elimination or reduction of obstacles that make it difficult to start a family project and to have the number of daughters and children desired. I would like to highlight to you the main lines of action, which are four. First, economic support for families with children and the prevention of child poverty. We have included in the reform of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act measures to improve the treatment of family units with dependent children. That's what you know perfectly well. I would encourage her to support these reforms as a tool to help vulnerable Basque families. Let me remind you of some aspects that are reflected in this bill. We were looking at a reduction in the minimum registration period to two years for families with minor children. We planned a review of the current amounts with a supplement for each dependent child, up to the ceilings that we set. We also included an increase in the current complement for single-parent families. We also established another complement to this reform for people who are victims of gender-based violence in the family sphere. And, on the other hand, as you know, it has also been in force since 2018 to extend aid for second sons and daughters in a third year. As to what it has to do with something important also for families: it is associated with preferential housing for young people. The Government establishes a preferential housing reserve for the young collective. Positive discrimination criteria are introduced for access to housing programmes for families with children in special need. And we support the access of the youth population to rented housing in the private market, through the economic benefit and within the Gaztelagun programme. On the subject of haurreskolas: the development of measures for access to haurreskolas for families with lower incomes and the exemption from payment to families with incomes below EUR 18,000 was approved in this House in the family monograph and demographic challenge that took place, and this objective – as you well know – is in force for this academic year. I would like to acknowledge in this rostrum and stress that this measure has been the result of the joint effort of the parliamentary groups in their capacity to reach agreements for the benefit of the citizenry, framed, as I said, in that full monograph. And lastly, more and better work-exhaustion aid. We have reoriented the existing work-excess aid to ensure economic coverage for the non-pregnant spouse. As you know, this is going to be a supplemental aid of eight weeks additional to those currently established by Social Security. An important and pioneering effort that will make it possible to equalize the dedication to care for both spouses. We will pay 100% of the contribution base, always during the first year of life of the baby and always during periods other than that of the pregnant spouse. Soon – I hope it will be approved by the Governing Council by 22 October – there will be an amendment to Decree 177/2010 to cover these cases. This procedure of the decree has been carried out as a matter of urgency, in order to meet those expectations that we create and announce, with the aim of benefiting Basque families so that they can benefit from these aids. Because these aids have, above all, two objectives. The first would be to promote co-responsibility in the care of parents or non-pregnant spouses of babies in the first year of life; secondly, and also very important, to work for equality between men and women. And this important advance in supporting the reconciliation of family and work life has been contrasted with social actors, and this decree has been adopted unanimously and without votes against by the Basque Council of Families, in which we have been recognized for the efforts that this Government has made in promoting this innovative and pioneering measure. Indeed, Mrs Garrido, it has technically cost us a great deal to be able to determine and define what these aids consist of, which are not the competence of the Government in the field of permit policies, because that, as you well know, is social security. And we, from social policies, have been complementary to what Social Security does not serve to equalize permits or to achieve and achieve those goals of co-responsibility in care and equality. And, of course, I'm not going to admit to you saying it was chaotic. We certainly didn't filter that draft. The media caught him like any other citizen, because he is hanging on Parliament's website, and they made a summary of what appeared there. But it was still a draft, and that draft was subject to different reports, and we still have the possibility to change it and, if I consider it timely and necessary, improve it. Therefore, until that decree is passed, it is likely to be improved, provided that it benefits Basque families. It is two different plans that have to do with civil servants and what has to do with private employees of private companies, and I, as a social policy adviser, and this Government, without having competence in social security matters, have done what we have done has been to try to supplement those permits that the State has climbed to eight weeks, so that they have the same conditions as mothers and that they can be co-responsible in the care of babies. We have also done another number of things, Mrs Garrido, as you well know, the Kontzilia 30 project. We start with a three-wheel drive, we're already at 30 and we're going to extend it to the whole of Euskadi. During 2019 we have done joint work. At the same time, we are also going to work on the dissemination of these experiences, and we are going to strengthen positive parenting and family mediation programmes. And you also know perfectly well that, if you don't run all the games we have, because I've told you personally, it's because we don't have requests to attend to. Because all the requests are dealt with, 100% of the cases. The problem is that there are not enough births so that we can exhaust our budget line for these issues. We will also work in a working group that appears in the plan, such as the tax coordination body, so that we can analyse and manage child and child benefits, and we will therefore continue to work on numerous initiatives. In the second part, I will give you even more initiatives that we have put in place, so that you can see that this Government is working.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u65	Well, I, Madam Counselor, would say that, rather, it doesn't work very well and it works as it does. Look, I thought that the proposal to amend the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act was a proposal from the groups, because it is a proposal for a law. But you said here we include we include Look, it's just that the interpellation is addressed to you. It is addressed to you with very specific content on the commitments you have made. And you've been a counselor since 2016. And you have come late to adopt the necessary instruments that contain the concrete measures. You're late with the decrees. I have quoted the only decree concerning the aid that you had committed in your III Family Plan, which were planned for 2014 and have arrived in 2018. The decree for leave is for paternity. Well, that's a real snitch, Counselor. I just have to tell him not to sell it to us anymore. He's already sold it to us. He's sold it to us a lot. And it's that he announced it here on March 21, 2018, and every time he gave a press conference, he told us that a decree was going to be passed. To this day it is unapproved. And to this day you have to be modifying it because it has been a real dip. And they have had to modify it as a result of having had several newspaper headlines, some of them long-running in the Basque Country. And some Teleberri who has also taken care of the matter, because, if not, you do not dignify to amend a decree that was a chapuza and that came wrong, and that you had warnings of your own internal reports, counselor. What do you want me to say to you, what the ESC has said to you, that the arguments which point to the impossibility of accepting certain amendments are frustrating because they are going to involve greater management in the aid procedure itself? What do you want me to read you these things that you have been told by the advisory bodies of the Government itself? What do you want, to repeat the dates when you are given specific warnings that the requirements set for beneficiaries in the private sector are absolutely discriminatory with regard to the criteria or requirements set in the public sector? What do you want me to tell you that those reports dated May, June, and July you're amending them this week, and not in all respects, because you've only changed the thing about housewives? And they also have warnings about day care. And they also have warnings regarding other issues. You're modifying it now. It is now changing it, as this issue is a matter of public opinion. You, less bad, have a week, because you say you're bringing it in on 22. So, counselor, look, your bowling and platter ads, as I said, which you have sold us on repeated occasions: to this day, nothing at all, counselor, nothing at all, a single measure. And I don't sell measures from other departments, because if I want to ask and ask questions on issues that have not been fulfilled today by the departments, because, not myself, but our responsible spokespersons in each of the subjects, as we normally do, we will lead the corresponding initiatives. She's going to accept the criticism, counselor, and, you'll forgive me, she's going to accept the criticism. And you have to acknowledge that it is your responsibility and that you could not have done any worse in this matter. Sure, he tells us he doesn't have applicants. But in the 3rd Family Plan there was talk of increasing amounts and increasing annuities. She has also made proposals for you to change the standard income criterion. Don't give the amounts you give. But, he says, "Well, that's what I'm doing," as he said last time, "I wouldn't fix the birth problem." Tell it to the Basque families, tell it to the Basque families, because some of them are receiving 400, another 500 and another 900 euros. Tell them that they have more money and that, because of their inability, they do not increase the amounts of aid. Because he has money, he has 10 million each year in the budget to be able to increase conciliation and birth support for children. Tell them it is because of their own inability, because in the end it gives the feeling that they do not believe and do not have the political will to help Basque families. Look, the Lehendakari was telling us the other day too, now they have also taken from the joke the development of a 2030 strategy, an inter-institutional strategy, of course, because then in the names they are also quite overwhelming: inter-institutional strategy of demographic change and rejuvenation of Basque society. He announced it to us the other day in the general policy plenary, but these proposals were made by us in the family monograph and you voted no. If we proposed a pact at the level of the entire Basque country community between the Basque Government and the outlaws to launch a strategy that would address this issue...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u66	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u67	Well, Mrs Garrido, I think you are clear that this government's commitment to families is clear. You know, like me, that the success of these policies lies in the long term, with patience and stability in the measures. You ask me about family policies and family policies are not only those of my department, but they are those of the entire Government and, therefore, I will be able to explain the family policies of the entire Government, and in the Support Plan for Families and Children we frame very demanding indicators, because you also knew it. We knew that its success would require the commitment and involvement of all public and private actors and responsible entities, technicians and politicians. And, well, for this to happen, not only are we going to push it from the institutions, that we do have a very important role and that we have to lead it, and that I am, but it also has to do with very profound social and cultural changes, with changes in values, with phenomena that affect all modern societies, such as very long-distance transformations, with growing trends, with personal decisions, with new life models, with different vital priorities. And all this affects the number and the formation and configuration of the different family models that we have in Euskadi and in the developed countries. Recently, from this very rostrum, the Lehendakari, as you rightly said, stressed that public spending on families in Euskadi has tripled in recent years, that we have as a challenge for the next few years also the demographic aspect and also social policies and that investment in families by Basque institutions had risen from 0.22% of GDP to 0.71 today. In 1995 it was 0.22; in 2019 it is 0.71. Euskadi is the community of the whole state that invests more in reconciliation and support to families, with 63.5 million, and that you know and know perfectly well. And it is also the only community that recognizes birth and adoption grants with criteria of universality and subjective law. In these years we have increased support for families by 33%, and it is true that you as a group have had an important part in the budgetary arrangements that we have reached. But you, like me, you know, Mrs. Garrido, we still have a lot of work to do. I, on the other hand, have not yet been able to guess, and it is that you, a member of the People's Party, and your party have ruled for many years in Spain and in autonomous communities, and I have never been able to know what was the leader of the People's Party in family support policies that I could focus on in order to be able to move them to Euskadi. You and your party have ruled, as I told you, and could you tell me where you have managed to reverse the demographic rates so that I can copy and implement them in Euskadi to improve? Because you have ruled in many autonomous communities and in the state. And I would like to see those proposals transferred to me specifically, once they have been proven to be effective. I would be very grateful if you could find out which model of success to follow in public policies of birth. You have focused on the conciliation decree for Basque families; we have drawn up that decree, which is a pioneering decree, which is an innovative decree in the field of conciliation, which is based on a rigorous technical analysis, innovating to deal with what is a competence of the State, I would like to remind you, Mrs Garrido, because this is the competence of the State, of social security, and, in particular, as you know well, we cannot interfere in those competences of paternity permits. I know I bore you, Mrs. Garrido, but that's all there is. If you had done what other parties in the Government at this time have been doing little by little during your terms of office, for we might have been in another situation concerning permits, but as you have not done your homework and we do believe, sincerely, that we need to move forward, what we have done has been to innovate in this pioneering initiative, with a very important economic effort, so that we can achieve that equality between women and men, because, yes, what is really discriminatory is that I as a mother cannot have the same permissions as my husband when it comes to having this reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, "About the decree which shall regulate the leave of Fatherhood by Ibaña, the parliamentary members of the Union, to the Chief of Empedugus and Polic Society." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief of Artola generouss, good morning to all. I'm sure the funk has been familiar with the draft of a decree that will regulate 16 weeks' parents' parents' license in private company, and, on the other hand, those who will receive that permission can't take the child to a private or public nursery, and different conditions are marked for the workers who work in public or private, or for autonomists, because there will be different regulations. In your opinion, is it necessary to change the conditions received on the draft of a decree of parent consent, considering they are disscriptors?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u71	Mrs. Kortajarena. I believe that we are making an important and pioneering qualitative leap in order to be able to promote conciliation, and I think that should be recognized. I believe that, for the first time, we have put forward in this debate a series of concrete measures, never before had this possibility been raised, and the Government has taken a decisive step forward, and we have made and we are going to make a major investment. We are the first Government to embark on this path, inspired by the experiences of the most advanced countries in the field of population policies, and we are achieving something that I already believe is fundamental, which is to raise awareness of society, generate a new culture and change habits in favour of equality and reconciliation. We must once again clarify, with regard to the specific question that asked me, that we are not regulating permissions of 16 weeks to enjoy for the parents, because these permissions can only be regulated by Social Security. What we are doing is providing non-pregnant spouses with additional support of eight weeks to those currently established within the Social Security for parental leave. And we are subsidizing paid voluntary surpluses for the shared care of children, and I repeat that what we want is that shared care, to promote that shared care. Discriminatory, if I may, Mrs Kortajarena, is the current situation in which they find themselves, too often, because only a part or a person of the couple runs with all the work of upbringing, and I also believe it is discriminatory that now only women are marked in their professional careers by being mothers, because you and I know perfectly well the difficulties they have. We are, therefore, pushing for more men to be involved in care from the first months of life, to generate the same bonds that so far only exist between mothers and babies, and we want to make men aware of the desirability of devoting time to the care and upbringing of babies in their first year of life, on the one hand, and also to sensitize the business world and working women to the fact that upbringing is a matter for both men and women. In order to be able to receive the remuneration of these voluntary surpluses for conciliation and rearing, a number of requirements will have to be met. They are aids, and we will therefore have to establish a number of requirements for these two objectives, conciliation and equality. And we will act rigorously, despite the fact that we have received criticism from you and other political groups, in order to achieve those increases, those objectives which, as I repeat, are important, and the objective is equality and the objective is conciliation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u73	Chief Grouch. To share some of the things you have said here, it was very positive that this or the way it began was rather improper in its time with the representation of the Family Testament, because we had seen it since, alas, that in this matter of great redemption the communicative criteria have been dominant. And what is going on here with the consent of fatherhood is a consequence of this. Then we called it a monographic pleno, and there for the first time you predicted this measure, and there it was tried, among other things, to make progress in the activity of the Basque Country. And there was also another thing in this plonee, which was to change the social organization of care, create new balances between productive and refractivative work, and develop a pattern of the care of a man and woman equally partaker of, because that is the purpose of making a special plan for four years. We asked for an integral plan, built with feminist movement, to correct the patches that the system has hitherto had, and to place all preparation and assistance in the same logic. And you agreed that this would be the case with us, because it was recommended that you should do so in some of your family-politics. But instead of closely linking all the apexs and all its pledges to accounts, you have preferred another communicative boots. There's another one, and there's a few in the past 19 months. Now, 19 months later, after numerous announcements about what should be an element of progress in terms of consensus, and that I share with you, what we have is a lot of doubts: very clear reports that are already anticipating possible problems; we have a decree that does not seem to be built on too many bases, if conditions can be changed from one week to another; we have a lack of coordination between departments, which makes conditions in the private and public spheres different; and we have situations that are not going to be resolved, such as that aid is going to be paid at the end of the surplus, and that generates that people who do not have sufficient income will not be able to access these aids. You have achieved one thing this week that is very difficult, and is that all the headlines of the same day are backward, correct correct Light ends, political determinations, guarantees, conditions for consistent conditions, and, above all, whole planning must be required. I dare say, Chief Artolalot, that you ought to renew your commitment to the Family treaty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u75	When I asked Mrs. Garrido what her model was, it was not to copy it, but to know what her model was. As sure as they have positive initiatives and therefore whatever is positive, we will analyze it to include it in our policies. But it was because I was referring to your party. This decree has been made with great technical work, carried out very rigorously by the technicians of the department, together with the associations that have participated in the elaboration of it. This decree has also been shared with the unions and the employer and we really do not improvise or bandits. What we have done has been to try to solve a problem that we have in Euskadi, the demographic challenge, and that we have come up with, by innovating in policies that we in no country or autonomous community have been able to find in order to put it into practice. We therefore need to establish a number of requirements to try to favour the largest number of families in the Basque Country. Of course, we have done so with consensus and with technical support, seeing what were the issues we had to address, especially two: conciliation and the fight against the equality gap.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u76	Thank you, chief physician. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "About the Statistical Statistics of the Aurel Market" of the People of Environments, Land Planets, and Housing Houses. " Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u77	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I left where I left off. On the 3rd of October you presented the statistics of the Lobster Market that Housing Department has started. You said that this device provides information about the real price of a rental in the Basque townships, and enables us to get an updated and trusted information about the establishment of the rent. This data collection was taken into account by the rental confidences stored in the contract record. In the reading of this statistics, among other things, the progress of the prices was expressed as an increase, but it has been a moderate increase. Do you really think the rate of rentage for the last few years has been increasing but moderate?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u78	Thank you, My Lady Mount. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Otamendi, let me remind you of the context. For a long time there has been talk of the brutal escalation of rent, of the new real estate bubble, of price increases in Spain as a whole of between 40% and 50% over the last five years, giving an average of 10% per annum. The statistics on the Euskadi rental market that we presented, as you said, on day 3, reflect a real picture of what is happening in our country with regard to rental prices, because it is based on the bonds of contracts deposited compulsory. What the EMA tells us is that the average increase of more than 46,000 rentals of collective housing registered was 1.8% in 2017 and 4% in 2018, with a CPI in those years being 1.1% in 2017 and 1% in 2018. Therefore, following the statement of your question and taking into account the overall context and evolution of rents, I believe that the expression I used, "a growing but moderate trend", is quite in line with the reality of the data.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u81	Analyzing the AME data, I conclude that free rental prices have been raised at 4:8%. If you think a 4,8% growth is moderate in two years, you're up! If the wages of the workers were raised in proportion, it would be a different matter. The statistics that have been used up so far have been based on offer for reals, and according to Eusta's data, the rent prices from 2013 have increased at 28% in our autonomy community. The distance between them is remarkable. Look, Mr. Arriola, I think neither of them is. Not the ones we've used so far, not the ones we're dealing with. AME, as it has been designed and formulated, does not allow us to make the whole reading of reality. The photo isn't real at all. You've made a cunning use of data, so you've used it to make your own reading. What for? We'll see, but I've already suspected him. In the presentation, you say the differences between statistics based on offer and AME depend on two factors at average rent prices: On the one hand, a poor bid of a reasonable price, and on the other the peculiar characteristics of the housing which are offered. I would put another very important factor in the equation: It's only AME who recognizes rental contracts for over a year. They don't even consider, for instance, tourists' houses, or the prices of houses that young people rent for college. And, as you know, there are a machine in the capitals, especially in the capitals, but also in other countries, and more in cities and countries where there are university studies. Let me give you a small example. I wanted to put my country as an example, but I don't have any specific facts in that AME. But it's the area's data. It's a town of 7,000 people, and, like in my country, there's a college, and a lot of students in renting apartment. Data: Contract 96 registered and averaged 475,3 euros. Go and ask students how much they pay for a rental house. If we need to be based on this data by designing help and the cost system or the system systems of tax values, we're fine. Don't deny raw reality and let's go to the rent bubble to set true boundaries. We're ready to help.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u82	Thank you, My Lady Mount. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u83	Mrs Otamendi, I can assure you that the work has been done using the terms completely objectively. We have a record where bonds are deposited and we are already talking about more than 46,000 homes that we have registered, and, with a great deal of analysis of those bonds deposited, we have come to the data that we conclude. We're not making anything up. This is the reality, he will like it more, he will like it less, he will be more or less adjusted, but, of course, the level of proximity of the data to the reality is amazing, because it is based on the reality of the bonds deposited. We're just not making anything up. Listen to you, this is it. I have to tell you something. We know that much work remains to be done in the field of housing. And you know that we are pushing from the department all the policies that are in our hands to develop policies, especially housing for rent. We are concerned about the problem that many people and families have in accessing housing. That is why we are working intensively in the department to alleviate this situation. You know that we are promoting housing promotions for rent, that today we already have more than 1,500 apartments for rent in progress, in execution, that we are the second community of Spain in promotion of protected housing, behind Madrid, that triples us in inhabitants and in gross domestic product. But we are the first community to promote public housing for rent. It's the ministry's data. We are collecting empty housing to make it available to citizens who need access to housing. Today we have more than 6,000 homes. There are the Bizigune and ASAP programs. We're growing permanently. Thus, along with the Government's 8,000 housing units, we have a public park with more than 14,000 housing units. We are growing more than 1,000 homes a year in the public rental offer in Euskadi. And, in parallel, we develop other programs such as the Gaztelagun, which we are developing and which we want to push and modify in whatever it takes to make it more effective. To this day you know that more than 30,900 recipients receive subsidies to pay the rent in Euskadi, with the supplementary housing benefit and the economic housing benefit. We have activated the right to housing, subjective right. Today more than 5,000 preceptors have recognized the subjective right to housing. And, logically, we know that much remains to be done and that we have to deal with this problem with consistent and time-consuming policies. We know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Edurne Garcíagarmæ, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, of the Environmental Planting and Housing Department, about stopping the Knightd Macrooutlet project." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u85	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. On 27 June 2019, this Parliament unanimously adopted the Law on Territorial Planning of Large Commercial Establishments, which limited the establishment of large commercial centres on the outskirts of cities. The day before the adoption of this law – on 26 June – and trying to avoid its effects, the municipal government of Hondarribia granted by decree the initial approval to the macrooutlet that is intended to be built in Zaldunborda. In view of this situation, Mr Arriola, what steps will the Basque Government take to ensure that the legislative mandate is fulfilled and to stop the Zaldunborda macro-outlet project in view of the intention to expedite the processing of the project by the Hondarribia municipal government team? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs García, I am sure that you respect the principle of legality and the distribution of competences between institutions as much as I do. I am surprised, therefore, in some way, that you ask me what the Government is going to do to stop an action carried out by a municipality within its competence, because you already know the answer in advance. This department can't do anything, because it doesn't have the capacity to do it. The municipalities, in this case, Hondarribia, are competent in planning and urban management and have full autonomy to make decisions in this area, respecting the current legality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u88	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u89	Mr Arriola, it should be remembered that we had been over three years without any legal limit to restrict the opening and expansion of large commercial establishments, which meant legal uncertainty, and that it was an initiative promoted by Elkarrekin Podemos and by opposition groups in the face of the inaction of the parties that support the government the law that limited the powers of the municipalities to make disproportionate commercial centers in the central areas of their municipalities. As you are well aware, the establishment of large, uncontrolled and indiscriminate commercial establishments is contrary to the general interest of society, not only because it does not favour proximity trade and fosters a model of precarious and low-quality employment, but fundamentally because the impact of these large commercial areas directly affects the economic, social and environmental sustainability of the municipalities where they are built or expanded and clearly harms those living in them. However, the municipal government of Hondarribia processed the approval with all urgency, allowing the company Higertoki SL to continue with the project of outlet: an investment of more than 133 million euros that will have almost 30,000 square meters and 200 commercial spaces at the service of the franchises, that will have 1,800 parking spaces and that intends to attract 5 million visitors. It will certainly multiply the problems in an area that already has a lot of traffic, and it will place small trade on the brink of extinction, among other negative effects. This project will therefore generate the effects that were intended to be avoided by the Commercial Establishments Act. And we don't just say it. From the different groupings of associations for proximity trade, it is already pointed out that all studies carried out in Europe are unanimous in saying that these models destroy twice as many jobs as they create. In addition, it should be added that Zaldunborda is in the skirts of Mount Jaizkibel. The project would involve the destruction of the countryside landscape and endanger the area that protects the Natura 2000 network. Please explain to me, Mr Arriola, why the parties supporting the government seem to defend small trade in front of Parliament's foci, while, at night, the day before its ban approves a trade macro-centre that is open to the economic interests of multinationals and promotes a model of precariousness, in addition to the environmental impact that this entails, which means placing private economic interests above the democratic will of this House. We make laws to enforce them. That's his competition. Take action, think about citizenship and paralyze a project that will generate ecological, mobility and economic consequences so negative for neighbours and for local trade, the same on which you have now launched a campaign to promote it, and so that the proximity trade is not extinguished. But this money is wasted, it is thrown away by not paralyzing shopping centers like Zaldunborda, because they really encourage the closure of local trade. If we want to promote proximity trade, what we have to do is to enforce a law that defended and protected it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u91	Mrs. Garcia. First, I deny you the greatest point of view that, with regard to the legal limit for the installation of new shopping malls, there has been an inaction by the parties that support the Government or the Government itself. You know or should know it's not, and I'd appreciate it if you'd recognize it. On the other hand, combining the Land Management Act of large commercial establishments with the apparent or non-apparent defence of small trade is the worst favor you can do in this forum to small trade, look at where. I'll be right back. The Law on the Territorial Management of Large Commercial Establishments, which was adopted, as you have unanimously acknowledged, here in this House, limits and subordinates the establishment of these commercial centres to the general interest, expressed, in this case, by the impacts on territorial planning and the environment. But the law itself, based on the principles of non-retroactivity of the rules and legal certainty, establishes a transitional regime for their application, which you think you do not know, but you should know it, as your group actively participated in the drafting of the rule and supported it. Thus, its transitional provision states that "the provisions of this Act do not apply to urban plans which have been provisionally or initially approved, where provisional approval is not required, before the entry into force of this Act". The law, as you know, came into force on July 10, the day after its publication in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. The general plan of Hondarribia, which revised the subsidiary rules and enabled the use of economic activity in the area of Zaldunborda, was finally approved in June 2017, and the partial plan establishing the detailed management of this area was initially approved before the entry into force of the law, namely the day before its adoption by this Parliament. Consequently, and according to the transitional provision, the limitations introduced by the law do not apply to it. It has been argued that the approval of the partial plan has been made with a lack of transparency, eagerly, with the deliberate intention of moving ahead with the law that would, if necessary, prevent the construction of this macro-outlet provided for in Hondarribia. If that is the case, the issue should indeed be clarified in other areas, especially the municipal one, and by other actors. There are things that one might like more, like less or nothing, like this case, and we can agree that we don't like anything. But this does not go with pleasure, but with respect for the legal framework and acting within it. And, for that reason, at this time, in precisely fulfilling the legislative mandate, the Government can do nothing to paralyse this shopping centre in Hondarribia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u92	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. fourteen points in theme list: "Internation, written by Carolo Becero, member of the Podemos to the head of the Board of Education, concerning changes needed by the modern model of the schools." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u93	Good morning, Mrs. Uriart. You need to change school stations from your section. Yesterday it was clear that the unlawful agreement between the corporations has shaken the system, and that at the same time the soots and demands which you have had long ago from the school community were also demanded. It's my interpenetration today to find out what your attitude on this subject is. I'll tell you who our team is. So far it has been your attitude not to touch today's system, and to offer an alternative system to the school unit, but the system you've offered is impossible, and that's why we don't see it. Our attitude has hitherto been this: We'd like to be the only system we'd like to have, but we have to admit that every center is not ready to go into that system. This is why we admit that we must have two supplementary systems for the moment, and that, independently of the officer, the other must be voluntary. But we also think that these supplementary systems ought not to be indistinguishable, and ought not to produce differences. I would like to refer to the current catering management system and then also to the alternative system, the complementary system that should be put in place to respond to the problems of the current catering management system. What we now have, the direct management system, has been questioned, not only because of what happened yesterday in plenary, because of the opinion of the committee of inquiry, but because it has already been questioned for years by the entire school community. And, therefore, not touching that system that we have in place today is not an option. It is true that he has suffered retouchings or patches: he had them in 2010 – as Mr. Pastor said –; he had them in 2012, partial, with a partial participation of the Basque Competition Authority; he had them in 2015; and, in principle, he is supposed to have them now. But the reality is that even with these touches and patches, today we have a system that is restrictive, that is opaque, that is conflictive, that does not educate, that is not all healthy that should be and that does not allow the school community to participate in its management. Therefore, it needs quiet changes, profound changes and urgent changes. We would dare to suggest to him that they should reflect the recommendations contained in the opinion of the committee of inquiry, which states, inter alia, that a price should be set for school menus based on objective and transparent and stable criteria, that transparency in the tendering of the system should be increased through prior announcements, that adequate and proportionate requirements should be considered in the procurement documents, and that, in addition, the monitoring and monitoring of contracts should be improved. But, as I say, the issue is not just the system we have in hand today, but how we put in place a new complementary system. The proposal you made from the Basque Government in January last year, our group considers that it is not legally feasible. It is very questionable whether the monitors can be subordinated to an AMPA that wants to manage a system, if they have not received a prior award from the Administration; it is questionable whether the kitchen staff or even the facilities can be transferred to a private entity that has not previously been awarded the service. And we also believe that the system you proposed does not give stability to the catering project, because it does not provide stable financing. To this day, in any case, it would link to a line of subsidies. In addition, it engages those who manage it to a number of management problems that are terribly difficult to overcome, such as defaults, purchases, supplies. We don't think the AMPAs are ready for that. Therefore, our proposal would be to withdraw that alternative system, to modify the current system as I have shown it and to withdraw the alternative system to start discussions with all educational, social and even local institutions that have already shown their interest in developing a system, which, as I say, I would not call it alternative, I would call it complementary. Complementary, why? Complementary, because it has to have a number of features similar to the current system. What characteristics should be similar? One, to have legal certainty, which is what did not do the alternative system that you proposed to hand over management to the AMPAs. Publicity must be maintained, which means that, in fact, AMPAs, which are a private entity, should not manage a system that should be public, and staff should also remain public. It would have to be a system that also continued to be monitored by the Administration. The Administration cannot assign the management of the dining rooms to an AMPA and disagree. It should continue to be co-financed, and, when I say co-financed, it is not subsidized, but co-financed by families and the Department of Education. In addition, the students in that system would have their scholarship system, as would the rest of the students. And it should be a transparent system, where the criteria of membership of the centres, voluntary membership, and the criteria of recruitment were public and known. So far, the similarities with the current system. That is why I reiterate our intention to call it a complementary system. But, obviously, it has to be a system with clear differences with the direct management system. The first of these is obvious: it has to be a decentralized system that allows the centres to have some autonomy. It must obviously be, in this sense, a participatory system, where the whole school community participates, but also those local institutions that want to get involved in management. And also those economic and social actors who are interested in promoting it. It must also be an innovative and educational system, which educates in new eating habits, in good eating habits and also in civic behaviors. And it has to be a socially and environmentally responsible system that helps improve the quality of food, menus, helps make it more ecological and sustainable, but also helps to root it into a local economic and productive fabric. So, in my first intervention, I've been trying to figure out the characteristics of the dining rooms today, and other additional systems that are acceptable to our team. And yesterday was said to argue, to admit the jurisdiction of the investigating committee, that our intention was to weaken the government. No, it's not true at all. We're ready to work and we're ready to make a deal. But we're not prepared to leave the system as it is today and waste time. In order to reach an agreement, Madam Counsellor, I recommend that you follow two principles: the first, seek consensus, both with educational agents and with social agents; the second, try to reach agreements between institutions. Within the government, you know that you have the Department of Agriculture eager to implement rural development plans to strengthen our primary sector. He has the Department of Health, which just presented last week, here in Parliament, a strategy for preventing childhood obesity. You have municipalities ready to support new dining projects. We've seen it with the pilot projects that started. That is to say, you have today the readiness of the whole sector, you have the ability to do so and you have the opportunity to make these changes. Take advantage of this opportunity, take advantage of this provision and take advantage of this capacity, and close a matter that has been on the table for many years, both from the Government and from this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u94	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u95	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Becerra jauna, there are many occasions when I have had the opportunity to appear before this Parliament to inform about the management of the school canteens, being prolific and detailed the explanations that we have offered from the Department of Education, with absolute and total transparency, since the beginning of the tenth legislature, that is, since the end of 2012. As you know, the last of my most relevant interventions was on October 29, 2018 before the commission of inquiry into the process of awarding the provision of school dining services, created by this House at its session on February 8, 2018. As I moved then, I will begin by recalling that the school dining service began to be provided in the 97-98 course, with a total of about 20,000 meals per day. Today there are more than 90,000 menus served daily on the public network, and today there are more than 500 schools, of which approximately 75% are served under the formula of transported food and the rest with the so-called on-site food. The numbers have changed because society has evolved, both in its demands and in its needs, and we can certainly agree that we must adapt and orient ourselves to those demands, and that is where we are. I would like to recall these figures to make it clear that under the reductionist concept of the single service model there is a daily service, totally complex and with multiple factors and variables to take into account. Above all debate and questioning, the priority of the department has been and is always to provide the service under the premise of attending to the health and well-being of our student, giving response, in turn, to a varied type of menus that includes special diets, attention to allergies, food intolerances, etc. The Department of Education has never intended to have a standardized service delivery proposal, but rather a service that is tailored and specific to its needs, which is implemented, as I say to you, in a complex scenario. Around the eating management model, every public school could choose a way of managing their own dining room in 2016, through a middle-class correction made on this legislature, called Euko MUDA to study, study, and determine the steps to be taken. On December 15, 2017, the Janpens Track Committee was formed with the representatives of all the agents. That board has been working on the dining room management model and its produce. In it all the representatives have had the opportunity to explain their point of view, to examine them, and suggest new models for the management of the dining-rooms. The Board of Education, also at the beginning of the year of 2019, after the work which had hitherto been done, showed the only model which he saw morally compatible, which the parent-meetings could handle. I'm still doing the model of the right management, improving as much as I can, but I don't want to object to those who want to choose another standard. With the representatives of the family of EHIGE in the public network, as agreed with them, we decided to continue working around the model of management, as we all saw the need of discussion. The department's will is to keep talking until we get to the agreement, and that's where they'll always find us. We are talking about healthy and sustainable school feeding, but I would also incorporate the ingredients of quality, closeness and with all guarantees of food security. In the days of healthy and sustainable school feeding held last week, which this department has inaugurated and has actively participated in, we have moved our thoughts. We are not strangers and understand, in the same way, the growing awareness and awareness of our society as a mature and advanced society. We pay special attention to every content in our power from the Board of Education, especially to the health and nourishment of man, and to the well-being of the planet. The consideration of healthy and bearable food is not foreign to us, we know what importance it is to you alone, even to ourselves, Mr. Becerra. Thus, during the course of these years, we have performed a constant work, and we still intend to continue it, for the welfare of our students and families is the most important aim. Our route, our direction, the dining room service has at first been to open as wide as possible. That is to say, to dive into the other regions where food is connected, and although you don't want to admit, we've taken steps. Behind these thousand menus of which I have spoken there are students, with different cavilists, with many wants, as you imagine. We have a dining-room in every public network, and in it, through this service, we give students a quality food, and at the same time a service very important to families. In all these tables there is room for all of us, all welcome, equality and equity also serve for the dining-room of the public euscal school. Returning, as I have said, security and health mark our course. Our management has taken care of the strictest security measures and guarantees of quality. I think we've made one of those priors, subalterns and other managers who have been responsible for the Board of Education for the past 30 years. In this way, and constant improvements, we've set out for the last few years in the neighbourhood of the school hall, and among them, the Medical Homes began the development of the project. Speaking of this and an example, I'd like to emphasize the steps we're taking to increase vegetables or fruit in the schools. But it's not the only example. For example, we have also given focus to the exposition of food, in order that the students may see how attractive they are to eat. We know that food often enters our eyes first, and that also has to be looked after. Because we're offered an opportunity to take our steps faster, we'll make a special effort in the country schools to make the produce of it bigger than the protagonism. The European Union has shown the position of giving occasion to this choice, if it is performed by a suitable expedient, and we are on the point of doing so. In connection with that, we even pushed steps towards the circular economy. In this case, by an initiative connected with the education of the profession, some schools have cultivated concepts of permanent economy, theoretical and practical. We have treated of designs and enterprises in the province of subjugation. In the course of the past years, it becomes more and more interesting to have the school-book prepared for the family in the school itself, to respond to this family wish, to the sub-structure of education which we have just accepted for the next few years, one of the kitchen lines is the most common witness. As far as school English management is concerned, I'm assuming you've already met the pilots of the projects we've made so far. By which we, as well as the parents of those schools, have better known the conveniences and difficulties of an autonomous management, strength, and weakness, and all that has been learned will be of great benefit to us. The health of our students and of our society, the development of corporations and values, the industries of the environment, the welfare of society, are the challenges of everyone, who inevitably asks us to share the responsibility and co-ordination, and we are at work. Finally, I will conclude my first speech simply by referring to two issues that I do not resist repeating, although it does not seem to be of interest to focus on this, lest the arguments to constantly point to this Government be put to an end. Just two notes. On the one hand, when we accede to the Government, we find ourselves with a catering contract, a contract that was in force and that we modify it at the first opportunity we had for it. And, on the other hand, that amendment of the contract documents has been endorsed by the Basque Competition Authority. A body that obviously needs to be taken into account when pointing out to the Government, but not when its report positively appreciates the decisions taken by this administration. I am sure that these two issues that I mention will again be forgotten by some, so I think it is appropriate to remember them from time to time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u97	You say, Counselor, that this society has changed and I cannot help but agree with you, so that maintaining the same standardized system... He says, "We don't have a standardized system." Yes, we do. In other words, the order, I think, of the year 2000, of the management of the canteens, says that the direct management system is the only system of management of the canteens that contemplates Education. So we do have a single standardized system. And society has changed, but the system, therefore, much less. I also share with you that it is a complex service, of course not. Food security is not only of concern to the Government. Food security concerns families, educational institutions concern us, our group is concerned, but the health and educational security of this system cannot be left unchecked against others. That is, the cooking system, the on-site system, is no more insecure than the hot catering system. Cold catering is safer than hot catering. None of them need to have any problems, if they are done correctly. So, to appeal to maintain the system on the basis of food security, I don't know how far right now it is simply a shield that you use not to face the rest of the changes. The eggs brought from Segovia are no safer than the eggs that can be produced in Larrabetzu, per se. You have next to the health counselor, who will tell you that both here and there follow the same controls. Then, knowing that it is a complex service, we admit that the solution is also complex, and that these solutions need to be addressed. And it's not enough for you to say, "We're not going to hinder those who want another model." Because those who want another model are not competent to start it, only the Department of Education can do so. So, it's no longer enough to stop those other sectors that want another model, but you lead the search for that other model. And to be led in a somewhat diligent way. Because we've been debating another model for two and a half years, three and a half years, and we still don't have another complementary model, as we told you. And the debate is not just in that complementary model to which you have referred, saying that they would not put obstacles, but that we also need to continue to modify the system we have today. You mentioned that they did it in 2012. It is also true that the Basque Competition Authority said that not all its recommendations had been taken into account. The Basque Competition Authority said so. Not the previous president, the current one. And in 2015 they did, but the point is that today it is still in the hands of seven or eight companies. It's still restrictive. The proportion of family funding remains in the air. They started in 2003 at 60%, today they are 70-75%. It remains the most conflicting space in the entire school environment. The time of the dining room is the time where more cases of bullying And, as I say, it does not allow the school community to participate, it does not allow them to be part of either the choice of the company or the way of management. And this is also a sign that society has changed, people want to participate, the school community wants a decentralized education system, and I know that you, when you talk about a new education system, talk about the necessary decentralization of the education system, and the dining system is a part of that education system. We cannot consider it only as an additional service, as if it were the extra-curricular ones, which are also, by the way, part of the educational system. We have to start considering it as a part of that whole integral that is the educational system: dining rooms and teaching space. And, therefore, I encourage you not to wait for bitter debates, such as yesterday's, that you would not have to repeat yourself, if the attitude taken by the department is to collaborate with other institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u98	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Your time is up. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u99	Mr. Becerra, I'll tell you more clearly. None of the files we've processed from the department since I've been a counselor has been questioned, but quite the contrary, have been endorsed by the Basque Competition Authority. I repeat, none of the files we've processed since I'm a counselor have been questioned. Having said that, and following a little along the lines of what you have brought to this House today, as I indicated in my first speech, we have a set of proposals on the table to, among all of you, seek the solution that best suits the needs of the centres and their students and the demands of our society. Our first bet is to strengthen the role of the dining service and the implications that food has in other areas, taking into account the growing importance that families attach to the nutrition of our children and ensuring an inclusive and equal service, without forgetting their quality and safety. We continue to push forward and expand the Healthy Eaters initiative, continuously improving. We will continue to work with families to encourage, both in the family environment and in the dining room itself, healthy eating patterns; for this, fruit and vegetables are being increased in the menus. In line with the European Union's principles of sustainability, we have a clear commitment to the products of proximity and the dynamism of the local economy, as well as initiatives from Children's Education that understand the nutrition process from the beginning. In the area of vocational training, as I mentioned earlier, we are also developing experiences in the circular economy, which brings a new perspective to the sustainable economy. In short, we are excited to continue working and improving, and I am convinced that the different positions, the different points of view will add up. As so far, we are open to hearing and hearing all the proposals that the various actors involved put on the table. The Follow-up Committee remains permanently open as a forum for discussing the various alternatives brought to us by the actors involved, but always from a perspective of improvement and co-responsibility and under the premise of providing a quality and sustainable public service that will enable us to improve the well-being of our students. The pilotages developed so far add up and contribute to the debate. Right now the Basque education system maintains ordinary management, a centralized management, but let's continue working and analyzing other possible options. The debate and the reflection must be permanent, and I am sure they will bear fruit. In line with this comment, we are now, for example, exploring the possibility of further collaboration with the municipalities, which could allow us to explore other possibilities. Obviously, these options will have to have the necessary legal backing, but it is an option we are working on, and we will see if in the medium term you can open up other possibilities for us. But steps are taken by working, contributing, collaborating and promoting constructive discussions. The debates concerned have a short track, and remain. Everyone who decides what their position is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is that Laura Garrido Knörre, a member of the Posteula team, made to the head of the Medical Department, about closing the unfinished attention of St. Martin." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments, members of the legislature again. A week ago, Madam Councilwoman, we heard the news, it seems as if definitive, that Osakidetza is going to proceed to the closure of the San Martín CAP. The truth is that the Victorians have received this news with surprise and concern. I think it is understandable, when in Vitoria there are only two CAPs, located, moreover, in two very specific areas of the city, with an influx of users and patients, to each of them, very determined. That will result in only the opening of the Olaguibel CAP. From the Group of the European People's Party, first of all, we must denounce and demonstrate the obscurantism with which, in our view, this decision has been taken. And, above all, it is not clear to us, and that is why we have asked this question, the reasons that led to the closure of the San Martín CAP, a service highly valued by the Victorians. It is not clear to us whether you have taken into account the greatest influx and possible collapse of the Olaguibel CAP, which in itself, in specific periods, is quite collapsed by very specific pathologies, such as the incidence of influenza, and, on the other hand, whether you have also taken into account the impact that this may have on Txagorritxu's own emergencies by users living in the Avenue area who decide not to go to the CAP in another area of Vitoria, which is where the Olaguibel CAP is located. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, the question is very specific: What criteria have led your department to definitively close the San Martín CAP in Vitoria-Gasteiz?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u102	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u103	Mrs. President, members of the legislature, chief of the department, Mrs Garrido. I appreciate your question. It may not have been quite understood that Osaides has made his decision, and we must make it clear that we have done the service better. In 2010, in the face of a possible outbreak of avian influenza and as a reinforcement measure, Osakidetza decided to strengthen the Olaguibel CAP with the opening exclusively on weekends of the San Martín health centre. Nine years later, as it seems logical in a continuous process of reorganization, the structure and activity data have been revised, and the conclusion is that it is not efficient to maintain two similar structures on weekends and that, specifically with regard to the attention in the Olaguibel CAP, it is also possible to improve assistance in this area. That simple, Mrs. Garrido. Osakidetza's objective with this measure is to improve the health care of Victorians and Victorians and to make more efficient management of public resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u105	Well, counselor, I have to tell you that the decision has not been understood. But on the basis of his answer, I still do not understand the decision, and I imagine it is something shared by thousands of Victorians who come to the CAP in San Martín. I do not understand that, if this service was given as a reinforcement measure in 2010, in connection with a specific crisis, it has remained in a situation of provisionality for nine years. I don't understand provisionality for nine years. I therefore believe that the reason is not justified, if that is the case, because an interim service for nine years is too provisional. Sounds more, well, sounds more like cuts, counselor. And it sounds more like, well, you want to wear this cut of an alleged or purported reorganization of health care in Álava that will benefit Victorians. But, as a result of the explanations you have given us here, I do not see where we are going to improve healthcare for Victorians. He hasn't told us about reinforcement measures. I would like to know what reinforcement measures will be put in place in the Olaguibel CAP. He hasn't given me an answer to the issue of saturation. I visited the two CAPs. You are not from Vitoria, but I imagine that, as counsel, given your current responsibility, you will have proceeded to make a visit before making this decision. Man, if you have done it in summer, it is also not very significant and very exemplary of what can be the CAP of Olaguibel and the CAP of San Martín in full operation, when we have the episodes of the flu. But Olaguibel's CAP is quite full. The waiting rooms, the space is very small. I do not know if you have foreseen how you will manage all that possible greater demand that will reach the Olaguibel CAP. And I would like you to talk in the second intervention about the reinforcements that will be put in place in the Olaguibel CAP, if they are going to carry out some reform that will allow for greater waiting spaces. Nor has he answered me what is going to happen to the Txagorritxu Emergencies, because there will be many people who opt for the Txagorritxu Emergencies. And, by the way – I imagine it will have been a coordinated action with the City Council – what will happen to the parking lots in the Olaguibel area, because there may also be problems in this area.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u106	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u107	The professionals of the members are happy and agree with the decision they've made. The reorganisation of resources that you criticize has the approval of the professionals. In addition, it has allowed us to implement a number of improvements for them and for users. I would stress that the number of health professionals is not reduced, those of the two centres are added, and, in addition, we have extended the hours of service in the administrative areas. These changes have also enabled us to have Olaguibel recognized as a teaching centre to train primary care professionals. I will add, so that there is no doubt, that these unification measures have also been taken on the basis of objective data. The follow-up that has been carried out allows us to state that this organizational change, exclusive to the weekends, does not cause changes in the use of emergency services. In other words, the unification of health care in San Martin and Olaguibel is no cutback; it allows for better management of demand and of professional and material resources. In addition, it involves having a centre in which the organization is facilitated to the professionals themselves, better organized, with teaching capacity, with greater resolutive capacity and, therefore, improving the quality of care for the Alavese patients. I would also like to remind everyone that the CAP schedule is maintained and that we are all looking to meet the greatest number of resources and the best organization and to respond to the needs of the people of Vitoria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "About the influence of Juan Uria Serano, a member of the Society of Podemos to the head of the Medical Department, the absence of medical and surgical specialities, or of some surgical surgery." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u109	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, advisor and advisors, colleagues and parliamentary companions. We are concerned, if not, that we would never have asked this question, because the efforts that Osakidetza is making to improve its services, its resources and its infrastructures, the efforts of its communications cabinet, which fill pages with the latest plans – especially the new staff selection model – can be clouded by the perception of some populations who are noting that the quality of the service they are receiving is resentful. We've had two cases. I can bring in more cases, because it's been a hundred and peak days since last control, and then the problems that come from summer build up. But, well, the two quick cases that motivated this question. First, the absence of anesthesiologists in some regional hospitals. In particular, in the hospital of Mendaro, it has been coming since February. Of the 11 staff, they now have two and a half, which has led to waiting lists, such as cataracts, having tripled and procedures, such as colonoscopy, having delayed twice as long as they had so far. Or other cases in health centres, such as Zaramaga, for example, where neighbors have checked how their family doctors' staff is reduced by half at the end of the summer, and even pediatrics are reduced by half, and another place has no replacement. These are two cases that concern us because they can alter an entire image of Osakidetza to improve its performance and quality, and of the efforts that I know the counselor and her team are making. Why is this happening?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u110	Thank you, Mr. Uria. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u111	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers. I will not deny it, Mr Uria, at specific times and in specific centres, we have problems. It is true that we have difficulty hiring certain medical and surgical specialties. This happens here, it happens throughout the state and it happens to them throughout Europe. And that difficulty in hiring anesthesiologists, for which you have asked, and also digestive – I suppose you are also concerned – has led to an increase in the average delay in cataract surgery, particularly in the hospital in Mendaro. But of course we take action, have no doubt. That the Basque health system is considered one of the best systems is a great management challenge, despite the great increase in indications of surgical interventions related to aging and the problems we have to catch, because there are no professionals of certain specialties. Therefore, being where we are is a clear example of that management effort we make every day. With regard to the surgery that you are asking about and that worries you, logically, I can confirm that the incorporation of three new professionals and the re-incorporation of a professional who enjoyed a maternal discharge have allowed the situation to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u113	Lonely Tejeria. Thanks for the answer. Thank you for the answer. The truth is, it's not too early to dawn. We already knew this was going to happen, we already knew it. Not by saying what's going on, not by saying what's wrong, this is solved. More than 10 years ago, leaders in Osakidetza proposed that we would have problems, in the short and medium term, with staffing and staff management. There are authors who argue that it is not a problem of lack of doctors: "it is a problem of unattractive places", Beatriz García Valcárcel, for example, in his last work, but not only in this work. Several issues were also proposed, such as bringing people from abroad; I mean, more than 1,000 young doctors are abroad, Basques. Bringing and approving doctors from abroad, reducing guards, increasing wages and, above all, the job stability of our people, making working conditions attractive. The stage is no less. Almost 12,000 doctors in the VAC, 15 specialties with full employment, 34% precarious employment only among doctors. We expect 4,467 retirees by 2026; the average age goes up, more than 50 years. If it is a problem of job attraction, and we know what is going to happen, we knew it more than 10 years ago, why do these problems have to pass, creating in the population perceptions about our working capacity in Osakidetza, some disastrous? These things have come to us from the town halls and citizen platforms of Eibar, Mendaro, Zaramaga, on the other side, Plentzia... Why does this have to happen? If we know that in family doctors and pediatricians there is full employment; anesthesia, radiology and urology, full employment. If we know how things are! But we also know there's no shortage of doctors. They're, uh, they've introduced themselves to the EPAs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u114	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Your time is up. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u115	Mr. Uria, we work in the country of Osata, and we set up the necessary measures; we help each other. You and I conceived Osakidetza as a system that must be able to respond to the whole of Basque society with equity. Euskadi is not, moreover, a large country, which allows us to manage our resources in a rather agile way. In this respect, I would highlight the commitment of our professionals. Thus, to compensate for the lack of a professional in Mendaro's ophthalmology service – which could be an area, as you have called it, difficult to cover or unattractive – two professionals at Donostia University Hospital are moving twice a week, both to consult, and to carry out surgical activities. We work online, we support each other between centers when we need it. That is, we manage our resources and put in place the necessary measures to solve those situations that can be generated in any company or health system in the face of a shortage of professionals. Measures that in Mendaro translate, for example, into the adequacy of the physical spaces necessary to launch the unique ophthalmological consultation and to make the own resources of this OSI more efficient. And we're also working, and it's going to take place, on the increase in weekly activity with an additional O.R. As has been said, the measures have been made, and we will endeavour to assist ourselves, as has been said, in order to continue the service of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, find Casanova Alonso EH collect members of the team for the project to build a macrooutlet in the Knightland." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u117	Thank you. Good morning again. Good morning, chief. I formulated my question in writing, but now I'll reform it a little. We don't need to introduce ourselves to this subject, and this morning we've had a chance to go over the subject and so the data about the affair is on the table. They want to make a macrooutlet in the Knight, and I said I'd reform my question, and I'll tell you in the following format: Are you, like the chief physician, against what they want to do in the Rider or are you on your side? If you're gone, why are you defending the project? And if you're against it, I'd like to know what you're going to do to deal with that project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u118	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u119	Thank you. Mr Casanova, the Government is in favour of the legal framework, the regulatory framework. As previously stated in this plenary session, the Basque Government will respect – as it cannot be otherwise – the Basque Local Institutions Act, legislation that provides Basque municipalities with a legal framework with a wide margin of self-government to regulate and meet the demands of citizens as they are closest to it. If the decision of the Municipality of Hondarribia is in accordance with law, the Government will have to respect it, whether it likes it or not. It's not so much about liking or not, it's about respecting the law. It is municipal autonomy, and the decision is taken. In any case, we will be vigilant and we will see how it evolves and what the details of this project are still to be known. And I can anticipate that we are in contact with merchant associations to collect their concerns and articulate reinforcement measures for local trade.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u121	I think I should have made an inquiry, because I'm going to be pretty short these minutes. Look, to say that the government is going to respect the law and that if it respects the law it can move forward, it's pure tautology, that's not political. That means something had to be done according to the law, period. Other than that is the intrusion, the civil disobedience, which I respect and have even practiced at times, but it is not the case. The question is not whether it is legal or not, the question is whether it is politically convenient or not. And the question, from its sphere of responsibility, is whether this is good or bad for small trade. And in that they have to position themselves and they have to give their opinion. How many statements have we made in this House, for example, about Garoña? That it is not even within the territorial sphere of our competences, and we have done tens, even hundreds of initiatives. How can you tell me that municipal autonomy must be respected in this area, when the project and its effects far transcend the territorial sphere? A city council cannot decide to set up a nuclear power plant. When a city council is going to do something that will destroy trade in the environment, also outside that municipal area, and that will cause environmental and transport conditions outside that municipality, it is necessary to intervene, it is necessary to intervene politically. I know the case is legally complicated. The City Council of Hondarribia has already taken very good care of making it legally complicated. But you won't be able to profile yourselves. They will not be able to profile themselves on this issue. Are you going to be against Zaldunborda, doing things against, or in favor of Zaldunborda? If you evade the responsibility that lies with you, even if it is by omission, you will be favoring the project. Zaldunborda's project stops with a phone call, with a phone call from Mr. lehendakari to the Mayor of Hondarribia to tell him to put this past aside. With a phone call. And to this we have to contribute all, we have to contribute all. And so are you. You can't do a campaign to say save the trade I know this is an awkward debate. It is an uncomfortable debate for your party. It is no longer anything new that has asked me, I have listened to the counselor and the other day I heard his position in the debate. But I assure you, we're not gonna let them profile themselves. Either they're against Zaldunborda or they're in favor of Zaldunborda. And this is a subject of utmost concern for trade and it is a subject that in the locality, obviously, in Hondarribia, outside the mayor's office and the Basque Nationalist Party generates a unanimous rejection, and also in Irún and in the environment. And it has effects that go beyond the city hall. I know this is an awkward debate. Among other things, the Bureau of this House has led me to commission a non-legislative proposal, violating my rights as a parliamentarian to decide on the framework within which the debates are to be held, trying to bring about an important debate. But I assure you that this debate is not going to put anyone sorghum in this debate, that this debate is going to go to the last consequences and until we are able to stop this project. I thought that with the law we had made it was clear what our goals were and I thought we shared goals. But if you don't act, and I'm not saying ban, because you can't ban, but if you don't act politically to prevent it, because you can, you will be collaborating with Zaldunborda.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u122	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u123	Mr Casanova, I am sorry to differ on one issue, and it is whether it is a question of legality or not. The Government does not have the power to paralyse this project. And you know, Your Honor, that the Government was part of the consensus that has indeed given rise to the law regulating the opening, conditions and characteristics of large commercial establishments. We are part of that consensus, because we agree with you and with a broad sector of society and with the small traders, associations and federations in which we must strengthen and support the Euskadi business model. We all agree. On the one hand, local trade must be prepared to respond to new consumer habits and transnational phenomena that may be the most disruptive. It is a project of which we still do not know the details as to conclude in such a sharp way whether it is good or bad for retail trade, but, as I told you before, we will be vigilant, of course. In addition, I also say to you that what must exist is a greater awareness of the consumer in order to hold our traditional and proximity trade with responsible attitudes of consumption. This involves us all, society as a whole. I had an opportunity to say that yesterday, indeed, in the presentation of the local trade campaign. Administrations must strengthen, support with aid campaigns. This week we have also approved on the governing council the Emco aid programme, I take this opportunity to mention, aimed precisely at promoting commercial entrepreneurship, both for traders who start their activity and for the municipalities that develop strategies of implementation and positioning in urban environments, intervening not only in urban centers, but also in disadvantaged or ageing neighborhoods. We have also committed ourselves to strengthening the structure of merchant associations, and we do so with training and with programmes aimed at small trade, so that they can also bridge the digital divide. We want the trader to innovate and adapt to the new reality, yes, but, as he said yesterday, consumers also have the freedom and responsibility to choose how and where we buy and where we decide to do so. In the end, our model of vertebrate and close trade also depends on our consumption habits. By buying locally, and doing so in the trade of our urban centers and neighborhoods, we are also deciding what world we want to make, and I agree with you that the price we are not paying now perhaps we will pay later on in a much more precarious scenario, indeed. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interpology, the legislature of the Basque Barrius Barrojia Group, made from Cultura and the head of Policia, to be executed in the field of sport and culture and in the possession of artistic and artistic property." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u125	Yes, good morning, Madam President. Counselor, counselors, good morning to you all, ladies and gentlemen. Well, someone might say that this initiative could have been carried out through a request for information or some written question, and, well, it would have been good, if Law 2/2019 had been complied with in its entirety and we would have wanted to know and what was the degree of compliance with it, of the cultural and sports games that had been approved. But, of course, that has not been the case, so we have to ask the advisor about his purposes in relation to those issues. Because it is well known that Law 2/2019 of 14 February on urgent budgetary measures for the 2019 financial year in respect of remuneration and other aspects relating to the extension, in paragraph 2 of its second additional provision, provides that "the extension of the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for 2018 during the 2019 financial year shall be in accordance with the regime laid down in Title 9 of the consolidated text of provisions" and so on, "approved by Legislative Decree 1/2011 of 24 May, in particular the authorizations of expenditure intended for grants which are designated as assigned in the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for the 2018 financial year, provided that they do not finance programmes or actions which by their nature should have been completed in that financial year". Well, straight away, there was a written information, a request for information. It was a request for information precisely from our group, where we proposed that it should specify the items extended and those that were not extended, "an individualized relationship of nominative grants corresponding to or included in any title or chapter of the budget of that department for 2018, in accordance with the provisions of Law 2/2019 on remuneration or other aspects relating to the extension – I have already referred to the additional provision – which are or are being extended for the financial year 2019, in particular the total amount". And a second point on which they are not going to be extended for the 2019 financial year and their specific total amount. Well, that's the point. The 31 that were to be extended and the four that were not to be extended were responded to, in relation to the items that we had discussed in the budgets that had been negotiated in 2018, and were considered to be extended through that law, which was mostly supported by this House, and we did so, and that is the question. We are seeing that some of the issues are not being addressed. We're in October, we're in the year. We want to know what the Department of Culture has in relation to the expenditure authorization for the items included in the General Budget of the Autonomous Community which were extended by the 2019 law and which were replied that they were actually extended. They are games, some minor, others a little medium, in relation to aspects that have to do with sport and culture. We want to know your department's purpose in relation to these issues, because it seems relevant to us that what is in the law is being complied with.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u126	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u127	Mrs. President, Congressmans, fellow governments. As explained in the justification for the People's Party's inquiry into the implementation of certain items of the 2019 extended budget, the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy already responded in writing last April to a request for information made by Mr Barrio on this same matter. Therefore, my answer to the question that you are presenting to me, Mr Barrio, as it could not be otherwise, will be based on the same written information that we submitted to this House six months ago. The Law 2/2019 of 14 February on urgent budgetary measures, says – you have read part and I will read it literally – "The extension of the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community for 2018 during the financial year 2019 will be in accordance with the regime set out in Title 9 of the consolidated text of the existing legal provisions on budgetary arrangements of the Basque Country, approved by Legislative Decree 1/2011 of 24 May". He adds: "In particular, the expenditure authorisations for grants which are designated in the General Budgets of the VAC for the financial year 2018 shall be deemed to be extended, provided that they do not finance programmes or actions which, by their nature, should have been completed in that financial year". According to the law and this provision, and with regard to the budget of the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy, there are a number of items approved in the 2018 budget which are therefore included in the same statement in the budget extended for 2019. I would like to underline, however, a concept of the heading that you and I have read. It is precisely that the provision expressly states that "authorisations of expenditure shall be deemed to be extended". We are talking, therefore, that a department will be able to dispose of those funds and nowhere does there appear the obligation to use those resources for the same purpose for which they were committed in the previous year. Having said that, Mr Barrio, I believe that in this House we are all aware that those nominative items of the 2018 budget that you are claiming were in line with a budgetary pact, the budgetary pact that the government reached with your group almost two years ago. Under that agreement, a number of nominative items that were not included in the draft previously referred to this House by the Executive were incorporated into the text of the law. In other cases, it was agreed to extend other items already covered. The matches agreed with the People's Party and incorporated into the Department of Culture totalled 2,544,000 euros. I understand that you are particularly concerned about those games to which I am referring. It was through that budgetary agreement that you convinced the Government to take new budgetary decisions. Decisions, therefore, not initially included by the Government in its budget proposal. The agreement reached with the Government was a way of asserting its representation in this House; it was a way of asserting the political importance of its acronym; and it was also the way to show certain entities, groups and institutions the influence of the People's Party in this House and in Basque politics. But, Mr Barrio, last year, at the crucial time of the preparation and approval of the budget, you changed your mind and chose another way to visualize its importance and influence, and decided to add your votes to those of Podemos and EH Bildu and to prevent the government from approving its budget. As a result of this situation, the Basque Government is acting with an extended budget and with three budgetary laws, which enabled us to develop the policies envisaged in the government programme which PNV and PSE signed for the start of the legislature. It would be at least surprising, Mr Barrio, that through this inquiry – which I suppose will presumably result in a motion in the coming weeks – you would find it surprising that you intend to demand that the Government extend the parties to an agreement that you decided not to extend. The government complied with the 2018 agreement, as it could not be otherwise. He played the agreed games and fulfilled the deal, but that was in 2018. And now we're in exercise 2019. And now those parties are not binding on the Basque Government, neither from a legal nor from a political point of view. I would like to add that, in any case, as far as the Department of Culture is concerned, we have made a positive reading of some of those nominal subsidies and, consequently, we have decided to implement them in the same direction in this 2019, because we consider them to be aligned or consistent with the action of the department and the government. But, Mr. Barrio, in cases where that has not been the case, the Government can and will change the fate of those resources, if it considers it so, without breaching any law or mandate. Neither you nor your group can claim to take political advantage of a budget that they did not want to negotiate and that fell with their vote. It is out of all political and parliamentary logic. Therefore, the degree of demand that your parliamentary group poses with regard to certain legitimate interests that have been incorporated on the basis of timely support for a budget cannot be claimed on the grounds of legal obligations which, in our view, are without sustenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u129	Let's see, counselor. It is an absolutely negative will in relation to what were those agreements, those covenants that, through the law, are installed in time and extended. We also negotiate with the Government on the extension. And when we negotiated the extension, we negotiated the fulfillment of those items, and that's why we put on what was put on, counselor. I mean, we're gonna have to take action somehow. I don't know, you also say it doesn't comply; you want to do whatever you want with spending authorization. Will you use the items that we had proposed to you or will you do whatever you want with that money that was part of an extension, of the negotiation of the extension? Tell Mr. Azpiazu, what a pity he's not here right now. Did you tell Mr. Azpiazu? It was part of a negotiation. That is why Law 2/2019 was adopted, counselor. That's why it was approved. Furthermore, I believe that we are not harming the People's Party with that attitude. That budgetary agreement was not reached, as it was not reached. But agreement was reached on the extension, so that there would be funding, so that staff members would have their salaries and their pay improvements. But also for extended departures, that is why the law was made with these two concepts so clear. That is, it is a breach, Mr. Counsellor, it is a breach of not executing those items in this new fiscal year, in 2019, through that extension law. I mean, it's a breach and we're not gonna take it well. I ask you to reflect, because we are not talking about the whims of the People's Party. No, we are talking about games, I say again, small or medium-sized clubs that affect sports clubs, women's sports, cultural issues, cultural centres, some community centres in other parts of Spain that have their cultural activities. They are part of small actions that benefit not the People's Party, but people with faces and eyes. The people's government will now remove certain games from some clubs that strive for women's handball or some other issues. That is the fundamental element. And it's just that, besides, we're in politics. And now you're going to ask me for law support, of course. You're going to ask me for law support. We're either processing the law of sports professions, or we're going to process the law of sport or you're going to bring in some more. It seems to me that it has documentary heritage, archives, something that is still pending. And you're going to ask me for support for those laws. And you are not going to support what you yourself, your group, your Government has approved. We have negotiated with Mr Azpiazu. I think you need to think about it. I have seen you, and the sports director, before, with an open, close and facilitating attitude. But no: we got angry because there were no budgets for 2019. But I say it again, there was another important negotiation for this Autonomous Community to function, such as that of the extension. There was an agreement, and in that extension the negotiation with the finance adviser was that the items that had been extended should be fulfilled. And, in addition, many other departments of the Government to which you belong are executing all these items. And the expenditure authorization has been fulfilled with the implementation of those items, with the fulfilment of those items, with the extension of those items, which also affect entities, collectives, people with faces and eyes. And, logically, that's why we negotiated them at the time, and the government felt good about negotiating them, because it was interesting. And in that sense, we repeat it again, that's what needs to be done. I say again that we are in a political, parliamentary, activity on the part of the Government on these issues. But I'm concerned about the hostility we've encountered at this time. And I would ask you to reflect. I mean, there are still laws to pass, Counselor. And we're going to have a friendly attitude, at least, about what can be constructive. I'm asking you for that friendly attitude too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u131	Friend Barrio, no hostility. You won't see her where there isn't. I am new to these lines, as I have not heard that the budget extension has been negotiated. I thought that the extensions would automatically come into force on 31 December, if there was no new budget law. I believe that there has been some attempt to negotiate budgetary laws, and I think that with little success in the case of your group. But there's one person who knows more about these matters than I do, and I'm sure she'll be happy to answer it. With regard to the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy, the agreement you mentioned, the one of 2018, not the one of 2019, affected a total of 41 games. 10 of these 41 items have not been reflected in the extension as they were linked to annual projects, beginning and ending in 2018. There are 31 other references that do appear in the nominal or in the text of the extended agreement. Some of them the Government, as I have told you, is going to execute them and others, in principle, are not. Because we believe that that agreement that we have reached with you, that agreement that forced us to change governmental criteria in some areas, to which you referred in the presentation of our budget in the relevant parliamentary committee, we believe that you have left it in extension. There are aspects of those items that we do not agree with. A government presents its political projects in a budget and sometimes has to change its priorities to reach an agreement. But do not force me to change priorities when you do not want to reach an agreement, which is what has happened, Mr Barrio. Both you and we made a positive assessment of the budgetary agreement in your day. We would still be in time to repeat that budgetary agreement and to incorporate into the budget, because of its influence and political value, the items that you consider necessary, but that depends on you and on us. I believe that the agreement has been implemented, and I believe the approach you are making to me is outside of a claim of legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u132	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "Myria Llanos Gómez Euspulic Groups of Laws to the Chief of Security, about the speech made by the Companions of the Basque Commercials at Archautin." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. As I point out in the question, the members of the XXVII promotion, as a colophon to their formation, on 26 June last received in the Hall of Acts of Arkaute a talk to which it seems that it was obligatory to attend – you will tell me if so, counselor – given by Euskotar Ertzain Abertzaleen Elkartea. We would like to raise a number of issues with you in this regard. First of all: Why only this association? Why couldn't other unions give talks to students under the same circumstances? And the second is: Why this association? Why are you choosing to give this talk to an absolutely ideological, abertzale-cut association whose purpose is to propagate nationalist ideology? An association whose aim is to promote the sense of belonging and identity of Basque society, an association with a vision, as I say, identity of the Basque Country, with political claims and which advocates, among other issues, the total disappearance of the presence of the Civil Guard and the National Police in Basque. The Basque Police Academy in Arkaute is a training center, a center that must be pursued, getting our police to have the best agents on the street. That is why we want to ask you, counselor, what was the purpose of this talk? Where is the formative function of this association? Because when his department was asked about it, he pointed out that the subject or subject matter was the first of its kind, so it can be assumed that for those responsible for security, as part of the training of the new agents, an important subject is to be imbued with the principles of nationalist ideology. Therefore, counselor, what was the reason for authorizing the Euskotar Ertzain Abertzaleen Elkartea talk within the school period?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u134	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u135	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Llanos, she asks me for an opinion on this talk, a concrete talk of the extra-academic activities organized by the faculty of the academy. In referring to the people who gave the talk, you speak of Euskotar Ertzain Abertzaleen Elkartea, which is still a redundancy, I imagine to emphasize the abertzale character of the association. In any case, you know that this is a legally constituted association and I doubt very much that your statutes will contain and advocate the disappearance of the Civil Guard or the National Police, as you point out. What I have been able to see about the talk is that two ertzainas, one from the XII promotion and one from the XIII promotion, spoke to the students of the XXVII promotion about the origin of the Ertzaintza, the Mikeletes, the Forales, the Miñones, the Ertzaintza of the 36, the Ertzaintza of 1982, about its functions, its history, its origins... A story, as they left reflected in their presentation, marked by the threat of ETA, the more than 1,300 acts of kale borroka suffered, the 23 attacks that cost the life of 15 agents of the Ertzaintza and left serious consequences in many others. In any case, as I say to you, one of the 15 non-evaluable lectures or extra-academic activities that the academic team considered timely and appropriate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u136	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u137	Well, counselor, at least I wanted you to understand that you did not deny that you were given it as an association, because they came to say no, that you were two members and I want you to see here, on Facebook, what you published. He says that they have made known the beginnings of the Ertzaintza, its passage over time, as well as the reason for the creation of their association. And with regard to the disappearance of the Civil Guard, I was looking at when they made those statements, but they did so precisely by supporting some of their requests. As can also be seen, here is the logo of the association perfectly, that is, they gave it as an association, dressed in uniform and with all the means of the academy at their disposal. We understand, that another union, Erne, has also asked to give talks to the various promotions, so what I come to ask you is whether they are going to allow other unions, such as the Erne union, which has asked to give these training classes, because they also intervene. Because we point out again, Counsellor, Arkaute is a training centre, not an indoctrination centre. How has this talk contributed to the training of the agents? Because your department must ensure the formation of our inertzainas, so that it is more and more advanced and that the students have better conditions every time, although in this it seems that they are going backwards. But it seems, however, that what you wanted through this is to indoctrinate. And, of course, among the functions of the academy, there should be no indoctrination. You, again, use the institutions, to despise them, to use the academy, to use Ertzaintza on a personal and interested whim. Euskadi, Basque society, is a plural, diverse society, no matter how much you try to project the opposite. I asked him what this association had contributed to the students. Of course, what did you contribute to? In imbuing them with nationalist ideology, which is their goal, either directly or through interposed partnership. They must therefore stop mixing their political interest with their institutional responsibility. Respect Ertzaintza as an institution and work so that they can have better and better means every day. Make sure that the agents leave Arkaute with the vocation of service and help to the reinforced citizen, and not with a political bombardment, aimed at establishing how and what the principles of good Basque action should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u138	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u139	Eskerrik asko. You minimize the learning and discernment skills of students at the Arkaute Academy. If you told me there was only one extra-academic formative talk for promotion XXVII, then maybe I'd worry, like you. But it turns out not, that there were a total of 15 non-evaluable extra-academic activities, mostly carried out by active ertzainas. Thus, they visited, for example, the association Euskal Gorrak, they were with people with functional diversity and psychiatric disorders at the hand of ertzainas associated with Teadir-Euskadi, they had another talk about basic protocol of verification of identity and travel documents, was Stop Accidents, another about oral judgments... They talked to them about the police order with minors, about computer security in smartphones. And finally, this talk, this talk to which you refer and have qualified as qualified, where it seems that you only see an ideological intention, as I say, disregarding the very ability of the students who aspire to be agents of Ertzaintza. And I have to say that, fortunately, various specialists, associations, institutions, agencies, trade unions and police forces are involved in all the activities that take place at the academy throughout the year. Therefore, diversity, plurality, in order to improve the training of these people, of the agents who will be responsible for the public security of Euskadi. That is the commission that the academy has, and that is the commission that the academy is carrying out, as I say, always with a vision oriented towards plurality and diversity, which is a reflection of our society, to whom these agents must attend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u140	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "about the security plan of the entrance to the garages of justice." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Last question from the plenary today. Madam Security Adviser, we have been aware of the publication of a digital diary that, at the end of May, the last or last day of May, at the Palais de Justice in Vitoria, Mrs Múgica, her party partner, also a partner in government work, had been mentioned because she was a high-ranking director of Osakidetza. And this person, Mrs. Múgica, had been cited as a witness in a judicial proceeding that is investigating a number of irregularities in Osakidetza's oppositions, by which she was precisely stopped and who even came to take forward the political career of Councillor Darpón. As the court summons was made public, because in the access to the Palace of Justice there were a multitude of graphic media, media professionals who hoped to take a photo or statements from Mrs. Múgica at the entrance, or an assessment of her quote, whatever it was, whatever they wanted, that for that we have freedom of the press. The truth is that Mrs. Múgica, in order to avoid that encounter with the media, picked up the phone and called a, I don't know if party partner, friend, family, whatever, a commissioner of the Ertzaintza, and immediately asked her to come in the back, through the garage. This Commissioner calls the agents who stand out at the Palace of Justice and gives them the order to be allowed to enter from behind, carrying out the entire procedure of access to the palaces of justice, the security protocol that exists, and uses that own means. The excuse is that I was late and, as I was late, I didn't have enough time to park. That's all a lie, because she wasn't alone in the car. They could have left her at the front door, gone down and entered perfectly. Two blocks from the Palace of Justice there is a public parking. The same thing that calls his friend from the Ertzaintza to give the order to let him in from behind, you can call the courthouse, who has the phone in the summons, and say, "Hey, I'm two minutes late, I'm parking the car." Then use a lie to load the security protocol. For these facts we have also read in that publication that you have sanctioned the two agents of the Ertzaintza. I want to know your opinion on these facts. They seem scandalous to me, to me they seem a real shame, but I want to know your opinion, because I am also very sensitive to these things and this is a common and normal or usual issue. I mean, if those garages aren't used much and they're at the service of anyone, tomorrow I'm going to San Sebastian to eat some pintxos in the center, I make a call, I leave the car at the Provincial Court Palace in Gipuzkoa, I take some pintxos and then I leave. Or you invite your party to a meeting in Sabin Etxea, there are many who go, do not fit in the garage of the headquarters: hear, call and keep the car in front, at the Palace of Justice, at the headquarters of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. Are these facts common, are these violations of security protocols common, or is this a timely fact? And what and how, how do you value this punctual fact? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u143	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I don't know, I heard a novel, a story. Well, I guess you know all the facts you've reported here. I don't know if it's because you've had direct access or because you've read The Journal In any case, Mr Arbulo, security plans are that, security plans that must be carried out in their entirety, in their integrity. Therefore, also the security plans of the justice palaces, which are in particular March 2012. They set out the rules of access, both for their normal functioning and in extraordinary or exceptional cases. Therefore, and in answer to your question, I will tell you that, from my point of view, the requirement must be that security plans should never, ever be breached. Not even in the palaces of justice must be accessed by places that are not provided for or regulated for that purpose, except, as I say, which are covered by those exceptionalities laid down by the security plan itself, and provided that they are authorized by the competent authorities, by the palaces of justice itself, or by the Department of Security. I insist, security plans must always be carried out in their entirety. Evidently also in the palaces of justice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u144	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u145	As always, Counselor, you don't even respond to shots. He tells me I made up a novel. No, ma'am, you have a formal requirement narrating a series of facts that have been published in a media outlet. I found out about that means of communication. If you want me to ask you in writing if there is such a report, if all the facts that I have told you are real, so that you have to answer, because here you have gone up and you have not told anything. And I have asked him two questions: how he appreciates this fact in particular – not if security protocols should be complied with – and whether it is customary for such violations to occur. These are two very simple questions. And he's still got a little bit left to come up here and tell me if it's true or not what happened. Or you are convinced that Mrs Múgica never entered the Palace of Justice nor was she called to testify there. That's the same thing. Well, tell me. But please answer. It is that 184 of the Rules of Procedure says that I ask, you answer and then there is another turn of replica and duplicate. Not that I ask and you read us a novel or tell us what you want or talk about another matter, no. He says that it is answered and that for that there are a few times assessed, and for that there is the Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u146	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u147	Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo, I'm not used to shooting, and less responding to shooting. I think that appreciation has been unfortunate. And I keep insisting, since March 2012, the courthouses have had their own security plan of mandatory compliance, mandatory compliance, with their authorization, control and communication mechanisms. The action that caused the opening of a file by the dean court of Vitoria-Gasteiz, which was decided in August by the President-in-Office of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, on the irregular use of a parking space, established that it was an irregular action. A decision of the court established that it was an irregular act, since there had been no prior communication in the planned action to the competent authorities, nor were the conditions of exceptionality laid down in the regulation, which had been justified. In our part, as I say, pursuant to that resolution of the court that was communicated to the Deputy Security Council, we proceeded in accordance with that resolution. The head of the Criminal Investigation and Judicial Police Division was informed of the decision to act accordingly. The persons concerned were reminded that they must comply with the established security protocols and have, as appropriate, been warned by their respective officials and heads of unit. Therefore, in accordance with the decision of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-11.u148	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Wait. I have an institutional statement. The institutional representation of the girl's International Day. "The gathering of the whole of the legislature of Europe has approved today of the international expression, which is celebrated on the 11th of October, on account of the international plan. "The parliamentaries which we represent in the legislature agree to the fifth and 2030th Age of the patient purpose of development, which insists that it is necessary to end in the whole world with all manner of disquisitions against women and girls. We call it a kind of genus emancipation to annihilate them, because they are a hindrance to the development of the girls and boys, and prevent us from advancing as a society. "The Basque Parliament believes that even today, despite the progress made in this area, there is still a way to go and discrimination and gender stereotypes remain on the screens, print media and advertising. However, this situation can change as long as all institutions are committed and girls and young people are supported to participate, influence, build and lead change without fear or discrimination, to work for a fair and true representation of the stories of girls and boys in our society. "To achieve this goal, as the 2030 Agenda points out, it is essential: (a) Improving the use of instrumental technology, in particular information and communication technology, to promote the empowerment of women. (b) Adopt and strengthen sound policies and applicable laws to promote gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls at all levels. "But, above all, it is essential to make visible in some larger areas, women who inspire and empower girls and young people. "Also, the Basque Parliament recognizes that, in order for women and young women to participate effectively and effectively, it is necessary to create spaces for participation and decision-making in which girls and young women can participate and be visible, heard and valued equally. "For all that reason, members of the legislature call every institution, every sector, every extension, the third sector, the civil society, and in general the whole international community, in order to force the following force: "One. An education which will allow education, girls, and young women, to promote values like respect and equality, without any distinction of purpose and ambition, to obtain their goals and ambitions, and to maintain that in all the lessons which are taught, there may be a refreciative female in all the subjects in the list. "Two. By patterns that will serve to identify them, the policies, the practice, and the laws that encourage the girls to develop all their powers from their infancy." So since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-seven.
