ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I must tell you that Ibon San Saturinus Murua, the parliamentary lawyer, has given a vote to the spokesman of his parliamentary group, who has been his father. I also inform you that the first point and the third point have been left for another. So we'll go straight to the vote, because at the next point it's settled, only to make the vote. Yet the second point in the subject list: "The final solution, whether it be possible and proper to follow the nature of the law-proposed "EH Collectations, the establishment of an office against the best means and corruption, on account of the 1/2019 decision of the Board of Obligation." As I said, it's a deal to vote and leave it alone. So we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 69; votes given, 70; supporters of the 7; contrary, 0; white, 0; abstations, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u1	So it's accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together, of differences and of violence in social networks. Discipline and final resolution. On this subject, I've been asked for a little five-minute receipt, because they're closing up an agreement, so follow me. It was nine o'clock in the morning. The meeting began again at nine o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u2	Well, it looks like it's over, they don't need it anymore. Then the team proposer's turn. Together, the representative of the Podemos group has the word to present and defend its own initiative. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u3	Yes, good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. From Elkarrekin We can bring a new initiative to tackle the inequalities of women and men and to eradicate the Machist violence, and, again, we welcome the unanimous agreement that we have reached all the parliamentary groups, which, although not going to sign the PP, we know that it was quite close to the agreement and interested in the proposal that we are presenting here today. Today, we are going to focus on social media, and especially on the adolescent stage. As we know, inequality is the pillar of sexist violence, and, as it could not otherwise be, within the technological and digital world there is also a gender gap, and violence also reproduces. The various parliamentary groups have on different occasions expressed our particular concern about the incidence of gender inequalities and violence in the adolescent stage, as social networks are a communication tool that is especially present in the adolescent stage, and therefore we must take them very into account when intervening on inequalities and violence at this stage of life. The aim of this initiative is to help adolescents and young people to carry out educational, professional and life-saving projects free of stereotypes, prejudices and gender-based violence. In this Parliament Estibalix Linares, professor, researcher and doctor, appeared a long time ago to present his research "The digital macho iceberg". In the thesis he analyzed the digital machist realities that affect especially the relationships between adolescent people in Euskadi. In this research it was confirmed that social networks are also traversed by machismo, and that they reproduce stereotypes, roles, prejudices, discrimination and gender-based violence. Digital machista realities are manifested in the form of machista violence, such as cyberbullying or cybercontrol. According to a study by the Government delegation on gender-based violence in 2014, 32.5% of adolescents and young people in the Spanish State between the ages of 12 and 24 had tried to control them through the mobile phone, and 20% had checked how they used their passwords given out of confidence to their young partners to monitor their online activities. 6 % had supplanted their identity using those given passwords, and 4.3% had broadcast messages and photos without their consent on the Internet or on the mobile. Almost 12% of these young people had been intimidated by mobile messaging, and up to 10% had been accused of causing the violence she herself had suffered. And also, they manifest themselves through what are known as the second and third digital gender gap. It turns out that the computer and technology sectors are strongly masculinized, because adolescents choose studies and profile their profession influenced, to a large extent, by gender stereotypes and mandates. There is still a marked horizontal division in the choice of profession. That is why we are putting forward a proposal with measures to intervene in digital machista realities. They are measures both to intervene in the prevention of these violences that are carried out through networks and to influence the phenomena of the second and third digital divide on the basis of gender. From Elkarrekin We want to move towards greater equality of women and men in all ICT and technology elements. We want social networks free of sexist violence, and above all we want our adolescents and young people to be able to do educational, professional and life projects free of stereotypes, prejudices and gender-based violence. I will briefly share the synthesis of the points that we have agreed between the four parliamentary groups, and that it is most certain that they will also be approved by the People's Party. To deal with the violence we developed three points: one is to develop a line of awareness in the II Co-education Plan on Digital Machist Realities, among which are sexual and/or sexist cyberbullying and cybercontrol. Two, training for non-university faculty on this reality and how to address it in educational institutions. And three, through the Beldur Barik program, work with teenagers themselves to acquire tools of digital feminist self-defense. And there are two more points that are to address the digital divides. One of them is to raise public and private awareness of the existence of the second and third gender digital divide in education in the computer and technology sectors. Finally, to promote the interest and rapprochement of girls and adolescents and young people in the IT and technology sectors, bringing to light women who are referenced and have been essential for the development of the IT and technology sectors. It just remains to be said that many thanks to all the companions who have been here at the foot of the cannon, negotiating until the last moment to reach an agreement on an issue as interesting and as important as this, so thanks again for the work and for the willingness to reach a unanimous agreement. Once again, I believe that we must be congratulated, because we continue to facilitate, with this initiative by Elkarrekin Podemos and for the sum of the other parties, agreements for equality and for the eradication of machist violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Congressmen, chief officers. Well, it's true that this is an interesting proposition here by the Podemos team. We introduced a correction, and we must say that at last we will support our signed agreement, but, in fact, we thought this point would not be the first point, and then, at last, in the afternoon, the proposals I made were of most shape, but they have not been considered, and then the signed text is left in accordance with the proposal which has been made; It is true, as has been said here, that this phenomenon is new, and that it is an important phenomenon, and that a solution is proper to face this subject because it is a new state, or not so new, but because more and more events occur about this phenomenon. We are faced with new situations, no doubt. He said that this is a growing phenomenon that, without a doubt, must be addressed, especially by the role of dissemination played by social networks, new technologies in the world today. It affects, above all, adolescents, according to the studies that have been made – and above all, I will refer to the most recent studies, by the profile of the people who use social networks, who are, above all, young people and adolescents – and, therefore, you can clearly talk about a new dimension of sexist violence in ICT. We are talking about actions in three areas: prevention, detection and concrete action. And, above all, I believe it is important to refer to specific intervention protocols and also to guidance guides for the families of adolescent victims. We are talking, above all, about focusing on three specific areas: psychological, legal and technical ICT. And also, taking into account the special characteristics of gender-based violence that can occur through social networks, the effects of this violence can be multiplied by the very virality of the networks; aggressors can also hide in an anonymity that can sometimes favor impunity – and this is something that must also be taken into account –; the victim's own lack of defence; the possibility that there may be a sum of abusers because of the functioning and profile of social networks; the continuity in the time of these actions, with the psychological effects that they can have on the people who suffer them; and, therefore, in the actual incidence of the networks, it must be taken into account. For us, it's also very important – and somehow we would have liked to go into more detail on this issue – but, as I said at first too, for lack of time, because we thought it would be announced later in the morning, and, well, we haven't been able to address it perhaps in the detail that we would have liked in our case. But he also wanted to stress the importance of education, education in values. In some ways, it is collected, as the spokesman for Podemos has pointed out. Above all, education in values, which is responsibility, respect, tolerance... It seems to us essential to be able to act also in the field of prevention on social networks. We therefore believe that the agreement reached is a step forward, and we will therefore vote in favour of it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u6	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u7	Good morning, everyone. It's not just that they feel less attractive to the digital world than they have described. It is also that the digital treatment between women and men is quite different and different. And so, as was said in the research itself, we should speak of media, video games, cyber control, sexual or sexist. It's nothing new. It's the situation in this patriarchal world. The fact is that they've found a new instrument to penetrate them through anonymousness, to prolong the pursuit in time. And we don't give any importance to what is the result of our world. Often, we've gone to harm what happens here. Today we are forced to take that "I will defend my sister" to social networks. Even every time we get a word in the nets, we are constantly attacked. I suggest that Varlas, journalists of Pica Magazine, every time women take the word in public or in public space that they take the word in social nets, there's only a glimpse of the importance of today on the table. In recent times, in social networks and in public space, there is an immense persecution against many feminists, and this machista hate is the result of a campaign organized. They are not four mad, they are not the four that we are going to minimize, as killers are not isolated cases; they are the healthy children of the patrician. Organized maxisms, racists, klasisms... All this has a clear end: women, dissidents, different bodies... Throw them out of public space. The report of Varasa, who had told us very clearly about the machinations of the Basque Country organized by the Collectors: in the beginning, that all these attacks which were received in social networks have been reduced to a diminution. But we believe that the proposal brought here this evening, and that it is plain that it is time to say that it is enough. Feministtus, in the squares and the streets, cried out loudly: "When they attack, they attack us all," "without reproach," "I will defend my sister." Now this public square is to be taken to the virtual square, and these rudders have a full meaning in that digital square, so that if they attack one of us in social networks, they attack us all. This is why it is necessary to take measures, and therefore we saw that study which is at the foundation of this proposition of Podemos together. We've also considered this proposal as indispensable, and we've also asked for this in the Human Rights Committee, and we're looking at it as a matter of importance, the role of Pica Magazine with the lawyer Laia Sera, in which he'd been summoned to identify social raids and attack on the Internet, and to demand a special litigation. And we believe that it is time to continue to reflect on it and take steps. And we see this half-way proposal very well, because it includes some ideas we put on the table at its own time. The initial proposal was doubtless a good one; but, as was said, each party's contributions have been somehow completed. And I would shorten it with three or four ideas. The first was the need of discipline. We saw that it is something that must be physically cultivated, because, as we said, something is not isolated. And that's why entering the training plan is very important. They are not isolated things; they are the result of a system, and therefore let us cultivate it in this universality. The necessity of Visilization is doubtless indispensable to producing referatives; it is necessary to work with the creators. And there, among other things, I have to quote fear Barik. We believe that the space created there, and, for instance, the suggestion of the digital feminist autodefensa, is wonderful. It is necessary to work with the teachers, as has been remarked very well, especially because teenagers suffer this situation only from rhubaria, but especially from the fact that it is necessary to do this work in the schools and to associate with the teachers. And, finally, the need for protocols. A door opens, but we've got a lot of work to do, because, as I said, it's the effect of a world that we're seeing here. It is the result of a patriarchal society which we see here, and therefore there is a great deal to be done. We've begun to see, we've begun to look, we've put the seal on it, let's just keep setting it up. We have tried to combine the complexity of this situation with all its substance in this broadness of the proposition, but I believe that we shall gradually tend to the details. On our way to-day, I thank all the teams, and especially the party proposers for bringing them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u9	Thank you, President. And good morning to everyone and everyone. The subject of macho violence is one of the most prominent issues throughout this legislature, and indeed the evolution towards it is known to all. Today we talk about the issue of social networks, mainly in the age of adolescence. The role of social networks has an important impact on the day-to-day life of society as a whole, but much more so in some ages, such as the adolescence and youth of our society. It reflects one more space of the macho violence, which, of course, the Administration is responsible for resolving. We need education, education, as Mrs Etxebarrieta said, from the teachers, but also from the family and from politics itself. It takes information, because it is true that it is part of the day-to-day, but there is a great lack of knowledge about the consequences of social networks and that anonymity in which those who become stalkers often take refuge. And, of course, the Administration needs to put in place control mechanisms. The agreement reached seems to be unanimous, as Mrs Arana said, although the People's Party has not signed, it reflects an agreement and a commitment on the part of all the parliamentary groups. Every time we discuss something related to macho violence, we are able to agree, because it reflects the commitment and concern of all of us who are part of this House. The Basque Government is already working on this issue for a long time: it includes awareness-raising campaigns and implements the actions to be carried out with the aim of eradicating, in this case, male-based violence in the networks. The amendment reached reflects the need to continue working on this reality, and its signature reflects, as I said, the commitment and concern of those who are part of this Parliament. The thesis of Estibalitz Linares, to which those who have already referred to me in the use of the word have already referred, concludes that the cybernetic reality is much more complex, since there are both transformative and highly Machist spaces, which means that technologies alone do not guarantee a space free of sexism, which invites us to continue working on this aspect, to continue to commit ourselves to the macho violence and not to forget that this topic does not stop evolving, that every day we face new ways of reflecting. We therefore recognise the agreement, we are pleased that it is an agreement by unanimity, and we recognise Mrs Arana's work and her generosity in giving in to some aspects which she considered important in the interests of its unanimous adoption. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u10	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs, good morning to all. In what has been said by Johann Galtung, the sociologist, violence arises when a man cannot develop his faculties as much as possible because he has the delimiter factors or the manufacturers. The violence which happens in the school area between classmates renders the development of these capacities much more difficult and graven, for it is precarious that the students should fully develop and retain the security which they require. We call that pursuit. And in recent years, on account of technological resources, it has been extended to young men by the phenomenon which we call cybbollying. And, indeed, it is in this phenomenon also that the genus-determination and its most serious indication: Lubricity machista. The first plan of avoiding Cyberbuting was to be started in the state class, eight years ago, and since then several plans and strategys have been designed, developed and pushed through the Board of Education. The other man, of the original law, planned to hold two subjects: on the one hand, the influence of digital rifts on girls, and, on the other hand, the inadequate use of technological media-that is, of cyberbulling. At least that's how we've understood it since we received it. At that moment, it was the purpose of our correction that sexism in general was to go beyond all its forms as its end, to work in order to obtain the equality of genera, to prevent and to disappear, and to continue to work against any violence derived from this sexism. And at that moment I say, that the original law was introduced in October 2018, and that now, when we are to discuss a year later, we have a different instrument in our education system, i.e. Collaboration Plan. After a variety of parties, the Board of Education, among other things, received and examined all the contributions and opinions of the educationmakers, citizens, affections, and so forth, and in March 2019 this plan was introduced. The plan is solid, and it's very complicated. But it is based on eight main columns, and in all it is cultivated by the genus imperfection. I'd like to mention the columns. On the one hand, critical thought in front of sexism. Secondly, non-sexist to use language and image. Third, the integration of the wisdom of women and their social and historical contribution. Fourthly, a peaceful arrangement of conflicts, by means of a collection of educational associations. Fifthly, personal autonomy and economic independence. Sixth, space in the college, and external activities and additional activities. Seventhly, the emotional and sexual education of equality. And lastly, the prevention of violence against women, and of violence in cases of violence. If this be so, we think that it offers tools to meet all proposed demands by the original law, and we cannot forget the other programs which are made up of it; in young people, who are more successful and more approved, and in fear of being mentioned by Mrs. Houseland and Mrs. Barik, a treaty signed by some program or by the Board of Education with the Security Department, to give the schools the preparation of Cyberabulying. And also the ICT-Holkuists and managers of the enterprise to live in the New World have been trained by Bausque Cybersecurity Centre, and they are in direct contact with each day. Life has taken its course in this course of life, by the power of the bulldog who is called a single one. Thus, in all the public schools of elementary education, more than 400, one group will be established, the directors, the directors, the counselors, and a teacher will be completed. It is just as a structure of reference that is to be determined by the case of the schools at the center to co-operation the process and the intervention of the initiative in all the centres. One of those four people will be responsible for the gout. And then, within the process of constant training, the second stage will be directed to the members of the group who created the schools. Therefore II. The development of a plan of education enables us to penetrate into this substantial matter, to make prevention, and to measure the measures. The education system has taken upon itself the responsibility of removing the educational revolt from the school-rooms, and has developed the actions in a sense, with one end: Schools have places that don't have violence. We're holding this whole thing down for the middle of the day. Mrs. Arana has explained it, and, thanks to her perseverance, we have received a large consent this evening. Therefore I will give thanks to him expressly, and also to other groups who have signed this medium, and also to those who will protect him. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u12	Thank you. I guess there's no one... Okay. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect, and the middle-class correction signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 73; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u13	So he's accepted unanimously. The fifth point is the next, but we'll discuss the sixth. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, concerning the transparency of the settlement of the Eucharistic ruins. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Becerra, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u14	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u15	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u16	President, vice president, chief of departments, all of you, good morning. Euskadi has a problem with wastewater supply and sanitation infrastructure. We have a problem, because we lack many sanitation infrastructures, which makes the water quality of our rivers and the ecological quality and water quality poor or improveable. And we have a double problem, because we have a need for infrastructure and we lack the necessary economic resources. Throughout this whole legislature – and possibly the previous ones – they have come to this Parliament, to the Committee on the Environment – and certainly to other committees as well – demands related, for example, to the supply of water in the Zuia and Izarra areas, to the depurators of the Upper Nervion, to the operation of the depurator of Agurain, to the case of the neighbouring junta de Manzanos, etc., etc. The administrations, who have to build these infrastructures, are just the institutions that have the least resources, which are the local administrations: the municipalities and the councils. This obliges other administrations, in this case the Basque Government, to make an effort to help these other administrations with their resources. And they do it through agreements. The question is how that money is distributed, to whom it comes and to whom it does not, because, in a problem like this with more needs than resources, the question is to prioritize investments. And the question is, how we set the priors here, how does the funk divide his money, his sanitation, or the sub-structions of the supply of water; to whom the money belongs, and to whom it belongs, lieutenant? Our group asked the Government in March of this year how the Government was doing to distribute the money, how it was doing to organize these priorities. The Government told us, first of all, that there was no public call, that the needs were met on the basis of requests, and it expressly told us that it was on the basis of criteria of opportunity and suitability, also mentioning approach and innovation. That is the way in which the budget is distributed and in which the agreements are signed: criteria of opportunity and suitability. We are not going to question them, but we do want to make clear with our current GNP that they seem interpretable criteria – I am not going to say subjective, but at least interpretable – the opportunity and suitability. And we also asked what the criteria were for allocating the financial amount, and we were told by the Government that it was the fraction, that is, the percentage most in line with URA's objectives. We suspect the objectives of URA, which may be the general objectives of the country, but the most adjusted fraction does not seem to be the most objective criterion possible either. We were told by the Government that the aid criteria sought to be homogeneous for the three territories, but yet our group asked for the amounts allocated to the different agreements from 2010 to 2018 and that criterion does not fit us. And when I mention here that they are the conventions from 2010 to 2018, I make it clear that this is not a problem of this government and it is not a problem of this legislature; it is a problem that we drag away. And, therefore, we are not here today in the rostrum to undermine the conduct of the Government in this legislature, but to highlight a problem that we have been dragging forward for a long time. And it is that, with the agreements in hand, in the last eight years, Bizkaia has received 60 million euros; Gipuzkoa, 15.5; and Araba, 800,000 euros. And if we take out 49 million that Busturia has received for its depurator, which is a special thing, we still have that Gipuzkoa has had 15 million euros, Bizkaia has had 11, and Araba has had 800,000 euros. I am not going to make this a territorial issue, but I do want to make it clear that it is precisely the rivers and water bodies of Araba that present the worst quality indices today, with only 25% of the water bodies in good condition. And if we look at the agreements signed, then we will see again an asymmetry, because we have that the Bilbao Bizkaia Water Consortium possibly is the one that has received the most resources, with 11 million euros; the Gipuzkoa Water Consortium has received 7.7; the Añarbe Water Consortium, 4.1; and yet Txingudi 300,000 euros, and Amvisa 800,000 euros. And some, like Kantauriko Urkidetza, have received zero euros during these eight years. With this – I say again, I repeat – I am not deliberately – deliberately – showing unequal behaviour. "Allow me the expression." What I am pointing out is that, to the extent that there are no objective criteria, we are subject, in the end, to the evolution of events which leads us to give responses in the form of patches, and not a structured response. This is why we ask today to refer to another proposal than our own: One, that we want a public call and open it to all the institutions. Two, we need objective criteria in that call, such as measure and transparent, to distribute the money from the "Male" or the Water Agency. And thirdly, that these considerations must be sufficient to answer general ends, on the one hand to improve the quality of water, and on the other to repair the ecological condition of our rivers. Our request is that it is sensible, that it is reasonable, that it is aimed at avoiding problems that we already have on the table, and, above all, that it is aimed at organizing a governance that is more transparent, more typical of the 21st century than of the century that we have already abandoned. And for our part, nothing more. Thank you, and I hope that this request will have the support of the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u17	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Mr. Otero, representative of EH Collect, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u18	Yes, good morning, everyone. Well, the team spokesmen will say what you're going to do now, but it would surprise me a little if the simple thing that you're asking here didn't come forward, because, after all, it seems to me that what you're asking seems appropriate to me is necessary. Finally, what is required is to work around hydraulic infrastructure by public appeals and work with some objective and clear criteria, and prepare a decree for it. No specification is here said, but let the government begin in a decree, whether it be regarded as the lowest of all the iophobs, or subjectively felt, to have this point of arbitration as low as possible. I'd like to say two, three, or four things, and there's a problem, of course, when it's time to sign money, and, well, Mr. Becerra has shown a little bit of evidence that there can be certain signs of certain entities and people and lands and areas of comparison. But there is, apart from this, another point, which I think must be placed on the table, and is, from 2012-2013 to this year, a vast or enormous reduction of the hypnotical infrastructure. I mean, for several years, from the year 2000 to 2011-2012, even if UR saw his budget rising, and the inclulous infrastructure had reached the return of 70-80 million euros, 2013. From now on, it's completely reduced to 50 percent, and from that point on, problems have increased greatly, and they've got a lot of anxiety. What I mean is, in the Arabeta, for example, 2004. if there had been a contract of the year, and until the return of the year 2012-2013, there had been a difficulty in fulfilling all that was promised and planned, and there had been nothing to say further, but instead of going to better things, things have gone wrong. The art of planning, then, is effected on the one hand. We see here that a decree is necessary, but on the other hand I want to take advantage of the proclamation from the first legislation, and that the URA needs a higher budget in the hydraulic infrastructure, otherwise there will be no way of doing all the works which are derived from the hydrological planning as it is today. And then that's what makes it the bad state of the ponds in so many of our rivers. So that or things like that, I want to insist on something else, and that there are concepts of things that seem a little dangerous to me in the repentance of socialists and Jesuits. And I don't know whether there's any lack of agreement or not, but at least we don't like the conception itself, what URA does. In your amendments, you talk about axilius. We don't think that's true. It seems to us that, in any case, there's a lot of conputations and funk making a tune, and the law, the law, the law of the Water of 2006, talks about the accordion. In point of fact, I believe the second regulation is an additional one, and that it is said that while the programmes are here, these and the others will be the percentages of the adjustment. Then I don't think it's the best point to talk about the auxiliary, as if someone up there was, in a way, giving charity. This, then, seems to us to be purely repulsed. And then there are other things that, in your repentance, are constantly insisted on, perhaps, we shall have more time to discuss about it, but it is about the correspondent of investments, or about it. It seems to us that there are some historical mistakes here that are to be corrected, and that is to be attributed to small entities, conjugations, and peoples who demand good infrastructure, and that they are not able to maintain or to repair costs. And I think, too, that there would require a change of politics, and that there are in many places, and especially in small countries, which have not been used the contrivances for debugging water, and whether URA or diputations have, in many cases, encouraged the small people to pass over the sub-struction, then to those who have great employments, and who have plenty of food, and who have, moreover, brought trouble to these investments. I believe that there are some good new examples in several countries, in which costs are much diminished by passive ecological productions, and the retornons are easier. I think we should shake hands there too. And after that, what surprised me most in the amendment is that you are 34th and 35th of the Law of Water. that you go to articles, which by rule you propose to develop. But this at least is very doubtful, for the articles of the law of Water do not speak of it, because they do not speak of financing. They say other things. In other words, article 34 deals with the local regulations governing the supply service, which have to come from a regulation or a framework regulation for the provision of services, in which some issues are regulated, but in no case does it talk about funding percentages, or how such funding is accessed, which is what is intended to regulate or propose that the Government begin to regulate, which is what is done, in the end, in this proposal. I think, however, that if the orientation be different from what you have at first given, we are in time to overcome this proposition; let the Government begin to regulate it, for there is great need. And then there's time to make and to do. And lastly, I mean that it will be difficult for us, as things now work, if we have not the whole map, the whole map of state. And I want to remind you, too, at this moment, about June 2017, that it was about 22. I don't remember exactly what it is, but, two years and three months ago, a motive was admitted here; we all turned aside, and it was said that in a year's time the Government would make a list of all the sub-structuring necessities. And I think that would also be an interesting starting-point to arrange and hypnotize all that. We asked him several times about this, and they told us that he was coming, that for the last time he was coming at the end of September or something. September is over, it isn't, and I think we ought to rush ourselves there too. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u20	Thank you, President. And good morning again, everyone. For, Mr Otero, the problem of the lack of agreement is the lack of recognition of the competences of each of the institutions and you try in your transactional measure to mix it up a little bit so that in the end it is always URA that ends up coming out, yes, in aid. And aid is not understood as charity, nor is it intended to pose in a pejorative way. But we do know what the powers of the municipalities are and what is the responsibility of the Basque Water Agency. And that is where you had the point of difficulty in reaching an agreement, which is why a compromise amendment could not be signed, apart from other issues that are almost out of this. The Basque Government, through the Basque Water Agency, has a fundamental responsibility for hydrological planning, flood prevention and the conservation and restoration of water bodies. However, it can also play and play the role of assisting urban water cycle managers, those responsible for the urban water cycle, who are not other than the local entities in the area of supply and sanitation, because it is true that sometimes this is difficult to understand, but always wants to draw from the budgets of the urban water cycle. And all this is always done on the basis of the budget's economic availability, budgets that you, both of you, then, never end up supporting, and therefore URA ends up having an increasingly limited budget. In this sense, in order to have no doubt, it is worth noting that in 2008 the budget allocated to investments of URA was 55.3 million euros; in 2010, 40.8 million euros; in 2014, it was 28.1 million euros, and there it remained between 24 and 28 million euros without moving. We must also approve the budgets, Mr Otero, and make proposals, apart from just criticising them. The investment capacity was one, which was at URA's disposal, while the demand for aid – which does not stop arriving in Lakua – was maintained in investments that are not part of the agency's direct responsibility. In relation to Mr Becerra's non-legislative proposal, assistance to local actors must be provided on the basis of prior selection criteria, which we consider should be adopted on the basis of the benefit to be obtained in terms of the ecological state of the water bodies; in line with hydrological planning; and under the premise that the recipient entities are those that offer sufficient guarantee of technical and economic solvency to carry out sustainable management of the urban cycle, by appropriate management, amortisation, maintenance and recovery of the costs of service and infrastructure. Because you know this doesn't always happen. The infrastructure sometimes comes, and then we have to maintain, we have to continue investing and we have to be on the technical criteria. For example, an example that everyone will know. You will be well aware of the hierarchy carried out in the framework agreement to which Mr Otero has referred signed between the Provincial Council of Álava and the Basque Water Agency in 2017 for the financing and execution of hydraulic infrastructures in the territory of Álava. It responds, in line with the objectives of hydrological planning, to the need to obtain with the first priority investments the most favourable cost-benefit balance of public investment. It is understood as a benefit of correcting the greatest deficiencies in the ecological state of the water bodies in relation to the affected or cared population, which make their priority action necessary, and we know a municipality of Álava that has been affected by this. When it comes to prioritizing an order of priorities for a cost-benefit analysis of the actions covered by that framework agreement, it was difficult to quantify the benefit obtained, since, contrary to what is happening in the field of flood prevention, where both the population at risk and the assessment of damage are more easily quantifiable and, even, monetizable in terms of the satisfaction of supply guarantee and ecological status, there is no alternative but to adopt substantially qualitative assessments. And Álava, which is the historical territory that in this matter of the hydraulic works, of the investments, is always in the discussion – and I share with Mr Becerra that we should not make a "province" debate of the matter – we must recognize that it is of Álava what is normally spoken of, without forgetting that there are more than 250 managing entities in the smallest province. And that also adds management difficulties. The analysis of prioritization of actions carried out in the Master Plan for Supply and Sanitation of the Historical Territory 2016-2026 carried out by the signatory parliament of the agreement should be described. The plan identified the actions identified as necessary, and highlighted the particular importance of the optimal timing for the implementation of each action in the context of the budgets earmarked for investment by the parliament, which is expressed as limited. In order to be able to start the chronological order in which it is advisable to undertake each action, the plan defines a series of criteria by which each of the actions is valued according to its economic profitability – as I said before – and environmental, technical and social benefits. The sum of the score of all the criteria that each performance receives measures its relevance in the context of the Master Plan for Supply and Sanitation, so that the most relevant actions would be those that would be carried out first. Then, they give weighted scores to global criteria. And that's known to everyone, what percentage you have, and that's how it's done. All these studies are public and can be consulted by all. It is a good example, and very recent in the memory of all, that makes it clear to me that the prioritization of actions is carried out, as I have said, according to objective criteria – neither subjective nor interpretable; objectives – of cost-benefit in terms of the ecological state of the water bodies, in coherence with hydrological planning and always in relation to the population affected. But, in addition, for greater transparency and enforcement, the Basque Government believes that it is important – and this was proposed in the amendment – to establish a framework regulation for the integrated urban water cycle. This regulation was submitted to public consultation before last May, and the preliminary draft that URA has already drawn up is currently dealing with the agents involved in the consortia, the joint ventures, as well as all those working in this area. For all that has been said so far, we believe that the funds allocated by the Basque Government through the Basque Water Agency to assist local authorities in financing waste water supply and sanitation projects should always be applied in the light of specific criteria, which correspond to specific principles, but without forgetting who is responsible for this matter. They will also be in line with the priorities set out in the hydrological plans, as set out in the legislation, which seek to optimize the impact of investment and its social and environmental return. But no less important among the criteria to take into account when setting the objectives for the necessary prioritization must be the proper amortization and maintenance, because you will know the case of Agurain, which is a municipality that goes through the second depurator, and we all know what the problem of the first one has been, because you have to have technical capacity to be able to maintain the infrastructure. It is good that the Basque Government must ensure that all Basque municipalities have water in condition, but let us not forget who is responsible for supply and sanitation. It is true that there are municipalities that have difficulty in later carrying out certain actions, but let's not forget that the law says what it says, and that, moreover, the money that is sometimes injected into the municipalities, when it is charged for the water service, the money that is charged must be reinvested and re-entered into the network, so that it turns into the welfare of the citizens, and we all know that it is not always done. We are talking about something that, as I have been able to tell you, has already been achieved in Euskadi: the application of these criteria always taking into account what is the main objective, which is that Basque citizens receive the best water service. And that is why we proposed in our amendment the need for such a regulation, believing that we would all be able to reach an agreement. I'll finish the way I started. I think the difficulty has been more, I don't know if to misunderstand the subject of aid, not to consider who the competencies are... because I believe that in the end everyone's concern is the same. But let us not forget that the first criterion that will be put on the table, govern who rules and whoever has to do it, is the technical criterion, the technical solvency. We'll see how many municipalities would stay out of those criteria that you put above everything else. Therefore, it is very good when we come to this rostrum and put ourselves on the medal of municipalism and we take into account the competences that each institution has, and then comes the out-of-court debate of those who understand the role of the parliaments, and then we want the Basque Government to be like umbrellas above all, which I understand must be because in the end it has budgets that, of course, cannot be comparable to those of any municipality, but we must always ensure compliance and competences, and not only when it seems to be of interest to us. And also, as I finished last week, we are at the door of discussing the budget, and it is very good here to always tell the government that we must continue to increase budget allocations, in this case for hydraulic infrastructure, especially in Álava, which is the province that has had the most demands – because, it is true, I also believe that, compared to others, it has had much less investments. Well, let us remember, when we go to give the button the day of voting for or against, that this too is affected, and that the legislatures begin and end what has to do with the hydraulic works in each of the three provinces. And then let us not forget that we are a very small country, with three provinces that are organized very differently in what has to do with water service. And, as I say, as an alavesa, I say that in my province we are more than 250 managing entities, and that makes it very difficult for the time of water management. But let's remember who has each of the competencies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u21	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u22	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, ma'am, good morning. Mrs López de Ocariz, we usually come down to this rostrum with prefixed positions, and it seems that you have not yet decided the meaning of your vote, and, moreover, the dynamics of this debate makes you go to talk after us. So I am going to make an effort to convince her not to vote in favour of the compromise amendment that Bildu and Podemos have signed, because I think there are technical reasons for that. What lies in this discussion is distrust. In a way, distrust. Mr. Otero, you arbitraritate Prudence And we have made a proposal, precise, and it is to establish technical criteria used by URA by decree, by decree to enter a text that has cold, objective, and dimensions. And when he did, you ask for a public contest. And here's the knot. And I think it's almost technical when you ask for a public contest. You're asking for sub-parter, council, etc., through a cold, almost logarithm system to determine where helps are going. And that's what we're going to explain now why, that's not possible. That's not possible. No logarithm, no mathematical formula; no criteria and no technical rating, no public competition that can be performed without technical mediation in this field. There is a phrase, they say, that the French work thus, or that describes their idossyrasis or idylsis; "no dejes que la realidad estroee una jeena teoría." And that theory, public competition, transparency, works very well in a speech, and is quite impeccable. Es estéticate impecable, pero las difficculades tecicias vando se vaya amplica, si que se puede amplica. Suppose, for example, that we have a network of libraries and a public contest is organized where the objectives and conditions are evaluable. There is a score; each project or library will have its own, depending on its size, the level of efficiency, of reading workshops for older people that have done in the last five years. There will be a number of criteria that are easily barable, quantifiable and ultimately punctuatable. But can this be done in hydraulic work? Well, it can be done in part. We can ask what criteria URA uses to distribute public aid funds, and he mentioned them today: they are those of opportunity and also those of territorial balance. And specifying much more is complicated, because the different recipients are absolutely different, they are very different from each other. For example, we have in Álava, as Mrs Red said, 357 entities that manage the entire water cycle; in Bizkaia, therefore, they are only one tenth. By the way, I take the opportunity to throw your ears out, Mr Becerra; whenever we talk about URA, you let go of some small pearl to the Bilbao Water Consortium, which is a bit of the benchmark we have in Bizkaia, the one closest to those guidelines or objectives that mark the framework guidelines for water, which are those for the self-financing of the supply and sanitation service. That is, whoever uses water pays for it. That is, an entity that receives almost every year recognitions from outside of Euskadi, which has a gigantic technical solvency, I, who always appears some criticism so surreptitiously in this type of debate, for, I want to put them in value, the entity itself and its workers, that I know first hand that they are phenomenal. More trouble. There are then different criteria between different entities, and how is this assessed? For example, the consortium of Carranza. The Carranza consortium maintains very low rates; even, it does not charge, for example, the sewage rate – it is not the only one; there are several – because it considers that, for example, if the price of sanitation rises, the first sector would suffer in a region that is especially dedicated to it. I mean, all these things, how do they cheat? How do they put themselves in a public competition without the mediation of technicians, without the mediation of technical opinion, without the – let's say – human mediation? Well, that's impossible. Another added difficulty is the diversity of conventions. There are some where URA pays 50%; there are others where URA pays 90%; in some, in many, the city council makes the land available to URA; in others, for example, in Álava, there is a differentiation between councils and municipalities, each with its competences. All this is impossible to cheat objectively, coldly and mathematically in a possible public contest. And there's nothing more unfair than treating everyone equally. For example, if we talk about opening a contest, who will have more technical capacity? We had in the Committee on the Environment, for example, the Council of Apples. Manzanos is a municipality that I don't know if it will have 300 inhabitants. Finally, the technical capacity that this body of water can have is therefore very limited. Who will have the greatest advantages if you want to make a more territorially balanced resource? Who's going to have more resources to better "dress" a technical project, the Bilbao Waters Consortium or Apples? We're going to set up evaluable targets, for what? In order for it to work worse, and then again in a GNP, let us call for a return to the mediation of the political criterion, of political discretion, which, by the way, is perfectly legitimate, because part of the representativeness that we all have here. So I don't put all those cucumbers in order to say, because you'll say: "There are many people in the government, many people in the URA, and solvedible, work; and, well, they'll find a way of evaluating the way." I do not say that it is very complex; I say it will have no positive influence at the time of division of money. And one last idea. Look, we live in a small town, and we know where the priority is. The river of nervous highness is bad, and I, too, and our party, insists on it; there is one of the highest privileges. We're even finishing our base sanitation system, but we still don't have jobs, but the scholarships seem to be on their way. And in such a small country, sometimes, to enter so many philosophy, I don't know if it's good for me. You, like the political team in opposition, have the chance to introduce projects, and to talk about high nervousness, or bring an initiative in the Manzanosju. So sometimes we try to make the letter, the decree, the perfect directive, but sometimes things are much more simple, and, in this small town, I think we have a chance to go and see for a point, because there is a transparency, and there is a certain similarity in the way in which money is made, almost one by one, that they are good, bad, and effective.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u23	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. A group that hasn't run any corrections. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. To begin with, Mr Arruabarrena, I believe that my speeches in this House on hydraulic works have a long history, and my opinion is perfectly defined. If you have any questions, go to the hemerotheque and check it out. I appreciate your willingness to teach, but I'm going to refer to objective data, measurable data, quantifiable data. And he made a reference to the Bilbao Water Consortium as a model. If it is a management model, why did your party submit an amendment to the State General Budgets of – how many? – 300 million euros, 400? How many? You can then give me the exact data, because you will have it. Therefore, if that is the model of inefficient hydraulic works of discharges, here came to this House the discharges of the Bilbao Water Network. So, that's not the model. And speaking of consortia, I am surprised that URA, in its reply, refers only to the Amvisa Water Consortium, but it is that Álava has many more consortia: from Rioja Alavesa, La Llanada, Sierra de Elguea... It has more consortia, but look at the case that doesn't know them. That's the management: 10 years of URA and doesn't know any of them. So, what are we going to wait for? What are we going to expect from an administration that says it's responsible and doesn't know the entities it has to manage? Mr. Arruabarrena, I was talking about discretion. You know a lot about this. He knows his government and he knows his party. They can also teach us classes. See, in 1994 the water competition was transferred to the Basque Autonomous Community, and, according to the Historical Territories Act, it should have largely been transferred to the outlaws. Mrs. Red, let's take care of the competition. He stopped watching then, and you know it. Therefore, of those clays, therefore, these muds, and, of those dusts, these muds—as want– but that's the wrong start of this management. That's where the biggest mistake lies. I don't know if you had anything to do with this. What should have been a transfer of functions and services to outlaws was a usurpation of outlaws, and the Government devoted itself in selective cases – discretion – to providing economic budget to the outlaws so that they could carry out their work of cooperation with local governments. Help, I don't like it! I like the work of cooperation with local administrations in the field of water, of public works of a hydraulic nature. From the transfer of powers to the adoption of the Water Act, 12 years passed, 12 years after which the Basque Government replaced the competent administrations. In this case, it was the local administrations and the outlaws that were the collaborating or cooperating entities. The Water Act, far from correcting this non-compliance, continues to injure the outlaw regime, bordering the Historic Territories Act. It does not respect the Statute of Autonomy. Their desire for power can, and they are unable to understand, that there are issues that are better managed from nearness, such as that of water, so close, that it has already been done in a usual way and with very good results between local councils, municipalities and entities. And the usurpation by the Basque Government, on the part of URA, of water management to the outside bodies has disrupted harmony, harmony and good doing, which was an example of good management. She said that she presented the Water Act in this House that URA was going to be the ideal instrument to guarantee the fundamental pillar of this bill: effectiveness. How wrong Mrs Larrañaga was; effective nothing, ladies and gentlemen. "Departing from a real participation of the institutions," he said. As I was telling you, Mrs. Larrañaga was wrong. URA ended, has ended with the effectiveness, which was demonstrated; with agility; with immediacy; with harmony; with the competence of the outside administrations, the municipalities and the local authorities. Mrs Larrañaga said that URA will be the only institution responsible for the hydrological plan, for the management of the public domain, for works of public interest, applying efficiency, participation, coherence and breadth of competence of our community. The reality, after 11 years, has shown that neither closeness nor effectiveness nor coherence; none of this occurs today in the management of URA. This House had jurisdiction to declare works of general interest, but because of the Water Act, that jurisdiction passed to the Basque Government. He now resides in URA, with all its organs fully dominated by the Government. No deputies, local authorities or users; the Government alone. Has this usurpation of competences brought us any benefit? Well, no. Far from providing any benefit, it has generated territorial imbalance, treatment, attention to basic needs in sanitation, supply and purification. Delays in 22-year-old works. First agreement, 2004, agreement with the Foral Diputación de Álava. Second agreement, 2008 convention. Those works have been delayed again in 2017, so that they will arrive we will see if in 2026. Hey, 22 years for works that were needed in 2004? But what are we doing? 2004, that we had revenue surpluses of 10% per annum. Listen, and here we are; 22 years later they say they still do, listen. We have worse quality of the water bodies and the ecological state, and something very serious never seen: harassment of the administered. We're in that situation. And I have looked very closely at the amendment that the Government has tabled, and the Basque Government considers that the funds dedicated by the Basque Government to help local entities... Look, the funds dedicated by the Basque Government – do not forget them – come from the outlaws; their funds come from the outlaws. That, for starters. And they say that financing of projects and water supply should be applied on the basis of a set of selection criteria and conditions previously established and approved. We already see what they are establishing, what they are adopting; ten years of the law, and that regulation they say they are going to do have never done so, because they are not interested, because that is the discretion of the Government, and there they exercise their role. Yeah, yeah, and they're never gonna do it. And they say: "The Basque Parliament considers that these investments co-financed by the Basque Government...". Co-financed not; financed 100% by outlaws, 100%; no co-financed. And he says, "We have to optimize the impact of investment and its social and environmental return, and ensure proper depreciation, maintenance..." Listen, but let's see: until URA arrived, what happened? What was going on until URA arrived? It was all broken, it was all broken, it was all disorganized... No, as I told you, there was immediacy; attention; respectful treatment of the administered, local entities and neighbors, which today is not given, which is a shame. And you're going to have to start taking letters on the matter; don't call and please take care of it as it should be administered. No, we'll have to move to another stadium; of course we will. And then they say optimize. I, as I told you, the best way to optimize, the cleanest one that I can think of, is for URA to disappear, that already the expenditure would only optimize enough; it would dedicate resources to us so that the deputies would perform the function that they have always performed and that they have done ten. That is therefore an opinion and a way of optimising, as you say in your amendment. We, of course, believe that the amendment that has been made between the Podemos Group and the EH Bildu Group corresponds to what we have so many times said in this House. It is not that we are making any break; it is what we have said so many times in so many initiatives throughout our trajectory. So let us not surprise you with our support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u26	Before I reply to the groups, I have to say that in the transaction that has taken place there are repeated two points: the 3 and the 4. He might be tempted to say that we have repeated them to see whether by twice urging the Government to listen to us, but it has simply been because of the circumstances of this plenary. It is true, as Mrs Red says, that one of the greatest difficulties of the agreement is the word help. If we are talking about co-financing, it is because, as you have also said, the Water Act gives the Government competence in the conservation of water bodies, and that requires cleaning up waste water. If there were no competition, who could help the municipalities could be the deputies; they would go to the deputies. If they go to the government, it is because the government has a competence even if it is – and I admit it – of second order. Good, but a competition does. I agree with you that it is indeed necessary to have criteria and principles. And I urge your government to write them, to be able to put them black on white, and then we'll see if those criteria are objective. If maintenance guarantees are needed, require them. If you need a technical solvency or whatever, demand it; set the criteria and make the corresponding valuation. If you have to value innovation or approach, as you are currently doing, rate it. What I am saying is that we need objective criteria and principles. I have not spoken of arbitrariness or subjectivity. I have said that they are principles when they are less interpretable – and I think so – the opportunity or suitability, or even the concept of territorial balance in this country; having as today has the PNV the melon of the Law of Open Contributions, so, come on, you will tell me whether territorial balance is an interpretable concept or not. And I think that, if anyone can do today within the government that task of establishing the criteria and principles through a decree or with the instrument they want, it is you Socialists, and not the Basque Nationalist Party, because I do not know whether Mr Arruabarrena can be subconscious or not, but he has said that what needs to be done is to do it without the mediation of technicians. No, Mr Arruabarrena, if I want to do this without the mediation of politicians; if I want the criteria and principles to be applied by technicians and technicians, and not by the political establishment. When applied by the political establishment, it is when, as you say or have come to say, "it is unfair to treat everyone equally." Indeed, that is the criterion used by the PNV: not treating everyone equally, treating everyone according to who they are and what they do. That is why we have the Bilbao Bizkaia Water Consortium, which is indeed a solvent consortium, but it cannot be that the Bilbao Bizkaia Water Consortium has agreements worth 11 million and the Añarbe Water Consortium, which surely also has its needs, has 300,000 euros. Precisely, if there is a consortium that is more powerful and has secured funding, whatever the way it is, it is up to the government to establish criteria for making a kind of territorial compensation and not a kind of allocation to the resources, which then does not have a practical reflection on the state of the Euskadi water bodies. Because the ultimate goal – said Mrs Red – is to ensure an adequate ecological state and an adequate quality of water bodies. And, today, it is the territory of Araba that presents the worst situation, and it cannot be that it receives the least resources. And, as I said at the beginning, I do not want to make a territorial confrontation about this; it is a mere observation of the real situation today of the environment in Araba and its rivers. And for my part, then, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u27	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Otero, representative of EH Collect, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u28	Yes, at least a couple colonizations. Red walker, he's had a little lapsus, which I think he gives something that's interesting from the bottom. You have said that Álava is the smallest province, and Álava is not the smallest province; Álava is the largest province but with the smallest population. I mean that that fact that it is the largest province and has so much water and so much river that care makes that, being the smallest population, it often has less financial muscle, and precisely one of the functions that URA should have is to come to compensate for that lack of financial muscle that it could have. So, the detail I think is important. Do not confuse size with population. On the subject of budgets. I am not going to get mixed up, but since you have already been doing it for several plenary sessions with different issues, as you have said well, from the years 2008 to 2012 URA had quite powerful, not complete but quite powerful hydraulic infrastructure budgets, and then, from the 2013-2014 budgets, had a cut of about 50%. Well, then, check to see who signed those budgets with those tremendous cuts. And from there, do not start blaming others that we do not approve the budgets, when precisely what we are talking about is adopting budgets that had such tremendous cuts. At least I wanted to do these two points. And then a couple of accounts for what Mr. Arrears said, or three, if I may have time. One, you've done something about discretion and representation. This is true: The discretion ought to depend on the representation. But beware of confounding this, as far as we have discretion by representation, or by means of it, then of subjugation, or cofination, to some places, or other, as there is danger of cutting off some. I said there's danger, danger, and watch out for these kind of legitimacy. And then I'd like to talk about two more things. Both of you have mentioned that there is a great number of seagulls, and that this is a problem. And you said you were suspicious. And here arises a certain mistrust, for we see that in the last few years a impulse is advancing towards the centralization, which we see to be exposed to certain dangers. Most of the jurisdictions around the water are in local entities or local institutions, and if we leave the management of it in greater entities, the impulse of the François and Araban is derived from this, in which case it is possible to make a single client, it seems to us that it can cause dangers too. Then they can be pushed into this, if we have any signs of chromata at the present day, though this cannot be done at the present day, overcoming the great infrastructure, or, in some cases, giants. And I'm thinking of Barron's reservoir, or I'm thinking, too, that the planet director of the Araba, who tried for the 2016-2026 deadline, says it's the first and most important substructure in the Korrospar. And we say that by means of the management of small entities, and the adjustment to them, there are ways, by improving the water that perishes in the pipe, and many other things, without making great substructures, to maintain the ecological rate, and to make the quality of the water-mass good or better. And I want to talk about the latest thing. Here comes Ferrari's theory, and I think he hasn't come out before, but we have to tell him. And the Ferrari theory was the director of the URA agency, who said, "With water, what happens with Ferrari is undergrowth. You have to be careful who you're giving a Ferrari to, because he may not have the money for gas and not for maintenance." But there are two accounts, and one is to see who ought to manage it, and who ought to give it technical and financial and maintenance, and this can be done in many ways, and it does not need to be made by a single-manger. There are other ways: by the division, by the compacts... There are ways to do that to centralize gestories. And then there's another thing, and it's the fact that having the picture of Ferrari shows a certain intentionality, and Ferrari's passion, the tendency to put Ferrari on the table, the will or intention. And that's why it's nice here what I've been talking about before. And I shall give a particular example: In Biscay, in town, the ecologically-passive, the ecological device, the water with plants and worms, the cost of 180,000 euros, which will never consume energy. It's the same team that's made for the same population, making 2 million dollars' worth of millining. Imagine how many times you have to multiply, plus a much larger supply of maintenance, plus energy consumption. So if there's fear here, this centralism will lead us to the tendency to make Ferraris today. Perhaps the question is not that we should be able to be Ferrari and maintain it, but that we plan the proper and necessary infrastructure everywhere. I think the problem is that way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u29	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, it is true; we know the position that the People's Party has maintained on this issue, because, moreover, you have been a spokesman who has often brought the issue of hydraulic infrastructure in the province of Álava to this plenary, and said how we could be surprised. My group, of course, is not surprised, and that is sometimes the problem, which I am not surprised at what attitude your group is going to maintain on some matters. But the speaker of the Waters Act was the one who spoke to him. I came to Parliament, and it was the first thing that fell into my hands. And the spokesman for her group, who was Mrs Esther Martínez, it is true that she voted against the Water Law and led the position against the whole law. But let's remember who Mrs Esther Martínez agreed with when we had to decide who was part of that council, the first council of the newly born Basque Water Agency, removing those we had passed and defended the law. Ask yourself who you agreed with and who was part of that, which was specifically the spokesman of the People's Party, to the surprise at that time, yes, of everyone, and, if not, you also go to the hemerotheque and you can see what happened there, because you didn't like the law, but you liked to be where that was decided, which today seems to us to be the beginning of all the problems of what has to do with water. Obviously, you share the same as I do, even if I have to say something else here, that the Basque Government and those who lead the Environment Department do not ignore the entities of Álava; they know, in fact, that it is not only Amvisa, because Amvisa covers a municipality, which is that of Vitoria, which is 80% of the population. You know that, because it would no longer be surprising; I will save myself the qualification to think that you believe that the department does not know that there are more than 250 managing entities. Look, if I know, how come the department won't know? The word help And, indeed, URA comes to help because I repeat again that it is not its competence; another thing is that it does so because it understands that it has to do so because it is for the benefit of the service that the Basque citizens receive. But let us not seek the word help Mr. Becerra, you were talking about interpretations. Look, I don't come here to interpret anything, because if we start to interpret everything that happens here in the texts and in the rostrum, I don't know if we'd come to an agreement. I, rather than interpretations, see a certain mistrust, and I am concerned that when it comes to managing entities, sometimes it matters more who is behind the organization chart of the managing entity than what the managing body does. And I belong to a party that is the Socialist Party of Euskadi, and it is true that many consortia lead or chair people of the Basque Nationalist Party, but it is that I look at the bench; I mean, in the end we have to distribute, and they will not distribute in this case to those who have less. Sometimes we do not interpret anything; it is that I believe that behind this there is a certain mistrust that we can end up interpreting in the take away you to put me in that managing body, and we end up going to the detriment of the service, as I say, that the Basque citizens must receive. And you were talking about those agreements that are signed, and that, in fact, there are affected municipalities, but we must also bear in mind that the Great Bilbao Water Consortium affects a percentage of the population that is not comparable to other agreements, and we cannot deny that. Therefore, in fact, there are investments and there are budget lines managed by the Bilbao Consortium, which obviously does not manage Amvisa. But let us also look at the percentage of the population affected by this consortium. And then, Mr. Otero, you said that URA..., which is true, but, excuse me, in this small or large, I am not going to enter into that discussion, and, unless I am alawsa, I am not going to go against my province, but you said that URA should compensate for the difficulty of a territory like Álava, which is true that it is larger but we have the most dispersed population, the villages are smaller – I insist, we have more than 250 managing entities, unlike all others – and it must compensate. There is a plan, the master plan to which I referred of Supply and Sanitation of the Territory of Álava in 2026. It will have more than 174 works, after a prior analysis of the state of the infrastructures and the need of this historical territory to have investments. These 174 works will have more than 200 million euros. This €200 million will be partly financed by the Basque Government, partly by the Foral de Álava, partly by local authorities, and 70 million by the Spanish Government. I want to say that we all know the state of the situation, and funding has been sought, and we are all involved in solving and, as you said, compensating for the situation in the historical territory of Álava in front of Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia. Therefore, it seems to me – and I conclude, President – that, in terms of hydraulic infrastructure and everything that has to do with supply and sanitation, the Basque Government has a lot to say and has said so, since the adoption of the Water Act, since the debate and approval of the Basque Water Agency, but taking into account the competences that each has. I insist, help is to help in case of danger or need. It is neither charity nor anything else; it is to understand that someone needs at a certain time an economic injection that he does not have, and then it is done. But again I insist that we do not forget who each one's competences are, and it is very dangerous, Mr Becerra, depending on what criteria we set, it is not going to be that those you believe will benefit from this GNP will end up being the first to be harmed. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u31	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u32	Thank you. There was not, Mrs López de Ocariz, a teaching spirit in my speech, but to explain what we are talking about, to explain our position and to defend it, and to say why we cannot support the opposite, the transactional that Bildu and Podemos have signed. What has left me doubt is what you think about this, because the words public contest That is to say, you have made a biased, biased intervention, because, as we are talking about URA and you have the complaint of four farmers or of 20 or 100 or 50,000 who have misspoke about URA, as it goes, we are going to vote against the government. This is what I make clear of your position today. It has nothing to do with whether the public competition is to be done with predetermined criteria, whether to mark these criteria in the decree, which is what we are talking about today. So... And then I'll tell you a second thing. If you make an allegation against URA, against the division of jurisdiction, about whether the deputies worked better when there was no URA, which, by the way, URA did not exist as such, but the structure, a similar structure already existed previously. But, in any case, if we have a law of 2006 and you are a political group that has worked since at least 2006, you make a proposal for a law, present it in this Parliament and we debate it. But every time we talk about URA, we're going to vote against the government, it's not rigorous. You're talking about construction delays. Look, I, in my first speech, perhaps because my commitment was to convince her to abstain at least, I have not mentioned it, but, man, the People's Party knows something. That is, if the highest priority we have is the High Nervion, which has been a work of general interest since 2001... I know you're going to tell me that before it was Euskadi's competition, that I don't know how many years nothing was done. Good. But let's be a little magnanimous, and, at the time of throwing the stone, at least take into account the whole reality. Euskadi's main priority is in the hands of the State Government from the point of view of subsidies. Más cositas. You, Mr. Otero, mentioned the agreement that was signed in Aran. The commitments established on that date 2016 and 2022 were discussed in this legislature, and the order of priority was changed. Therefore, I say, I have said at first that we have often here made great philosophies, but when once the decisions are made, and, in consequence of this discretion, we have a report or a contribution, it is brought to this parliament, and they are made or disputed, and the priors vary or may be required to change them. So en fin And finally, Mr Becerra, you have made such a romantic claim of what is the treatment of different people and others. Look, if I did not treat everyone equally in this case, it would be precisely not to privilege the big ones, but to benefit the consortia and the small councils. If it is materially impossible for a council of 400 inhabitants, as demanding as the framework water directive, to be efficient in its work. It's just that it's materially impossible, no matter how committed the neighbors are to the consortium, no matter how close it is, no matter how many neighbors they do there together. It is impossible, because the technical level that is required is gigantic, and yes, the deputies can help, they can meet with them. There may be a guide, but what must be below is not a centralization. I'm a centralization
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u33	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u34	Mrs. Red, in fact, you negotiated the 2006 Water Act. By then, there was already an agreement of hydraulic works necessary for Álava especially, and also for other territories. But you negotiated posts; you did not negotiate funding, you did not negotiate works, you did not negotiate planning. None of that was negotiated. They are in the Government, they have negotiated a government agreement, they have negotiated posts, but they have not negotiated budgets. And now he comes here and tells us that we are the opposition that we have to do what you have been unable to put into your government agreement. No, Mrs. Red, not everything. No, no, Let's move on and put something on your side to solve the citizens' problems. They come here to solve their problems, not those of the citizens. And that's where we are, Mrs. Red. He was telling me that the director of URA knows the consortia of Álava. You and I saw in the committee that I did not fully know that there were water consortia. And when he said for a long time how convenient it was to be a single consortium for Alava, it was in the replica where he was informed of the different consortia that there are. He didn't have an answer. He didn't have an answer. That's in the hemerotec of this House. Therefore, Mrs Red, they are objective data. And, Mr. Arruabarrena, he pulls out the works of the High Nervion, but the works of the High Nervion were in the process of being auctioned. The situation seemed overwhelming to you, and you chose a new president, who logically paralyzed all the management, who already knew it, and is dedicated year and a half to cultivating his ego. That's your model, listen. Well, here we are. What about the works of the Nervous? Well, paralyzed, Mr. Arruabarrena. That is the reality, the sad reality that we suffered from the Basques and, on this occasion, the Alavese and the whole Autonomous Community of Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. End of discussion, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u36	So, since it's a draw, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u37	So since it's a draw, we'll vote again at the next round. Five point in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentarian Society of Euscany, and the measures to prevent the reception, praise, and homage of the members of the terrorist organization. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr Barrio, representing the Potula team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u38	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselor, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we are back on a subject on which we have already spoken and this House has also spoken, and we recall that the plenary of the Basque Parliament, in a session held on 22 February 2018, approved the Proposition no to Law 14/2018, concerning the rejection of tributes made to persons belonging to the terrorist organization ETA or linked to their actions, in accordance with the following text. He said: "The Basque Parliament expresses its rejection of public tributes to people, either because of their status as members of ETA, or because they used or justified violence as a means of achieving political ends." It stated that such tributes were contrary to the defence of human rights and also entailed a revictimization of the victims of terrorism. Well, since the adoption of this declaration, there have continued to be many receptions, many acts of exaltation and tribute to ETA members in our streets, in our squares, in public places in different localities of our land. And the main associations of victims have reiterated their revulsion, their deep concern about the impunity with which these acts are carried out contrary to the laws. In addition, honorable symbols are used, aurresku makilas is used This is a very serious issue, this use of minors in acts of exaltation of crime. It's very serious. And it repeats itself constantly. It is a constant of these acts of reception and tribute. It is also an issue that the Ararteko, i.e. the use of children and young people in acts of honour to criminals, could well be analysed in a special report. If very essential things are analysed, very important in this country by the Ararteko office, I believe that we are dealing with a case of violation of human rights, of the rights of the very serious minor, which I would advise from here the Commissioner of Parliament to analyse, if he sees fit. Well, we have reached an agreement to reject again the acts of reception and tribute to ETA members taking place in our streets and squares. We have achieved this, we will vote at the end of this point, and that is a success of this House and, of course, of the progress made in terms of the values that some of us defend in this House. Well, when this non-law proposal came forward, it was late July, August. At that time there were numerous acts of tribute in many Basque localities: in Oñate, in Hernani, in Bilbao, here in Vitoria; then, in other places, like Renteria. We heard surnames—Zabaleta, Ugarte—that is, murderers, kidnappers, heads of street terrorism, a collection of criminals being honored, being vitorized. The Covite Radicalization Observatory has documented 81 acts of exaltation to ETA members this same year. In addition to the tributes, there are many other expressions: banners, acts by means of paintings, acts where those ages are exalted, the deceased. I mean, there are those acts. All those events of 2019, in addition, have been tributes to dead or recently released from prison, to which are added the more than 60 of 2018. That is, since the adoption of the no-law proposal in 2018, there have been more than 80 acts of reception, of tribute in relation to the ETA world, in relation to criminals. And that, since it was approved. That is why it is good to reiterate this House's commitment to the defence of human rights and to the rejection of this expression of terrorist memory, and, of course, with the tributes to the imprisoned terrorists, the long and infamous shadow of ETA once again obscures the present of the Basque Country. They try to turn their defeat into a mockery for those who defended democracy. For this reason, the words of the government delegate in the Basque Country, Jesús Loza, are particularly significant when he stated in a recent interview in the summer in a media outlet: "Visiting the last ongiatorris That was said by the government delegate in the Basque Country. Serious statement, and no one can say that Mr. Loza is not an expert in the matter he is talking about – see his responsibilities, the current and the previous ones. Loza also said: "You have to go to the administrative route, put the measures to prevent tributes from occurring." That's what Loza said. Legal instruments exist, and there was undoubtedly an appeal to the Basque Government and its responsibility for neutralizing these expressions of radicalism. And, according to the Basque Act on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism of 2008, the authorities must prevent and prevent public acts that humiliate the victims, and that must, of course, be done by the Basque Government; we demand it. In this culture of hatred that arises from the environment of ETA and its political project for the country and that some support today, in that culture of hatred is installed all this radical expression of tributes, elevations and receptions to the ages. It is the culture of hatred, that hatred that is transmitted, as we have said before and denounced, to boys and girls in receptions, in tributes, to boys and girls who are used in them. Well, we have reached an agreement on this issue and we have signed three points which say: "The Basque Parliament again rejects the acts of public recognition of ETA prisoners leaving the prison, and urges those who organize and promote them to stop doing so, out of sensitivity to the victims and the pain of their families, out of respect for the critical memory of the past and to prevent them becoming an element of division and an added difficulty in building democratic coexistence." Bury this with what I've been talking about before. This moves us away from coexistence, these acts of homage, of exaltation. There's nothing clearer. The terrorism of ETA used to do so; it is now these tributes, these expressions that take us away from that coexistence. We also said: "The Basque Parliament reiterates to the competent public authorities the need to guarantee the policies of recognition, truth, justice and reparation of lives to the victims of terrorism and of violation of human rights, eliminating the grievances suffered and those that could be caused to them – that is, the expression of the aggravation that is being caused to them today – as well as taking measures to prevent their offending, humiliation and revictimization." That is, as we always say, the victims on the frontline of democracy, the victims of terrorism – in this case, the victims of ETA – to which we refer in this initiative. And, to conclude: "The Basque Parliament calls on public institutions – it is clear that this must be the case, in relation to the enforcement of laws, in relation to their obligations – political parties and social actors to redouble their efforts to actively promote the delegitimization – a key element, which has always been in the discourse of demand – of the use of violence as a resource for the total imposition of political projects." That's ETA, isn't it? A totalitarian political project that has been built. Unfortunately for them, it has failed. A totalitarian political project. And it is rejected both in the past and in the present and in the future, where ETA still plays. We have reached this agreement to continue to denounce this unsustainable situation, and it is the result of the union of democrats in this rejection of radicalism, the hatred of tributes to ETA and its members. It is noted that, if it was earlier the terrorist violence of ETA, it is now the radicality and the lack of delegitimization of terrorism that further moves the Basque country away from coexistence. In this sense, this has been our effort to draft this initiative that we have signed with the Basque Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and the Elkarrekin Podemos Group. I thank Mr Iturrate, Mr Prieto and Mr Becerra for their sensitivity. I recall that our initiative was demanding in relation to taking appropriate action or some instance to the Government. We keep doing it, we keep claiming it, and we'll always do it. We will also do so through our initiatives. We considered that, in that sense, having reached an agreement of these characteristics interfered in a clear and real way with the agreement that we reached in February 2018, at that time, and that the demand of this House is projected towards the ETA environment in a strong way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u39	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together represent Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u40	Good morning, again. Today we are discussing a non-law proposal by the People's Party on tributes to ETA people who have exercised or advocated violence. It is not a new debate; it is a debate that we had in February 2018 and ended with an agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and our group, where it spoke against the tributes, due to the suffering they provoke in the victims. To-day we talk of homage again, and we shall repeat the last year's discussion. If we're going to argue, we're almost sure to have the same outcome today. We know what we're against, but my question is whether that's enough or not. And the next question would be, what more we should do to make progress in quest of a solid and permanent life. As a society, I believe that we have a clear rejection of tributes, of all tributes. Today we reject the tributes to ETA members, as our group also rejected the tributes to LAG members at the time. All the tributes, because they all re-victimize the victims and because they all exalt a violent past and unjustified violence, and because also – and here I want to use a few words from the Permanent Social Forum – they are an element of division that endangers both the construction of coexistence and the consensus on the people who are still imprisoned. The question I ask myself in this debate today is whether it is enough for our society to reject tributes, whether it is enough to establish that political debate and to repeat that political debate and to repeat the results of a year ago, and whether we should not go further, and whether we would not need to replace the political debate with an ethical debate to do so. An ethical debate today would say that the relatives of a detained person have the right to receive them upon their release from prison, especially if they have been improperly removed from their families beyond what is required by law, if they have been removed due to dispersion. But that same ethical debate tells us that neither family members nor organized political or social groups – much less organized political and social groups – have any right to exalt that person's figure, much less his actions or his past, and even less – I have to say – in public places before hundreds of people, because that is causing suffering, it is revictimizing some victims who already had to suffer the consequences of violence by those people. And, therefore, these behaviours are neither ethically nor politically acceptable. We are pleased that, in the compromise that we have reached today, although we do not go beyond rejection, at least we have managed to leave out the measures that we need to take police and legal measures, because it has been shown that they are neither effective nor have room on this issue. Here what has to take us is to see how we take ethical measures in this country – ethical and non-police measures – to put an end to these tributes. We have to take steps to strengthen each other's life, and that's why we have to take measures. But what we've seen in this town has been a remarkable backward step. We've seen 10 years' strides, and society, today's company, does not understand what's happened in our streets. Society, our society, has ethical worth, and our society rejects the political actions which have been arranged for homage, and which are entirely ethical. Our society does not understand homages, does not accept homages, and today it will be exposed to our whole meeting. It is not enough for us to reject tributes. It's necessary, but it's not enough. Our group will be open-handed to take ethical steps with both those who reject them and those who do not, so that we can achieve a stable and democratic coexistence in this country. And for that, we have to apply not only political debates on this issue, but above all debates on how to put ethics at the centre of the political action of each of the groups we are here. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u41	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u42	President, ladies and gentlemen. Public tributes to members of the ETA terrorist gang who have served their sentence for murdering and extortioning democrats, innocent citizens have only one intention: to treat in a heroic manner those who executed these crimes. In these acts involving active public and political positions belonging to Sortu and Bildu, we seek the gratitude for the services provided and the recognition of their task. The tributes have become one more of the expressions of tolerance, closeness and connivance that Sortu and part of Bildu offer to these people, and they seek in politics to achieve a way of whitening terror by insinuating that for him there was a justification. Honours, if they express anything, are the embrace of hatred and fanaticism and contempt for human rights. They also express the distance of a sector of Basque citizenship from democracy, with the values of life and freedom and coexistence. They express the democratic deficit accumulated for decades in this sector of citizenship and their resistance to it, as the vast majority of citizens demand. The tributes are a continuous provocation to the victims of terrorism. They are an attempt at humiliation; they are acts of mourning to remember that while some are in the graves, others are satisfied that this is the case, and the best way to manifest it is through a public feast. This form of distilling hatred, grudge, human lowness and cowardice deserves a unanimous rejection of any democratic institution; it deserves today, therefore, the most radical rejection of this Parliament. The tributes have become a mode of exaltation of the inhuman and macabre work of ETA terrorism. They are an alarming sign of the living waste of intolerance and fanaticism of a sector of society that shows its resistance to living together democratically and to taking on the damage caused. The tributes show the double play of a part of the political representation of this country; they show that, to a large extent, the distance with terror is not complete, it is set, and any way to sweeten it is your opportunity. To pay tribute to those who killed in the back, those who killed defenceless people, those who killed those who were not in favour of independence only causes shame to a Basque society that wants to live in peace and freedom and to which fanatics repeatedly force the worst of their recent past to relive. Those who organize, act, defend or cover up the tributes only manage to add rejections and refresh the memory in Euskadi and outside Euskadi of the worst image in the Basque Country. With the tributes no one wins; rather we lose everyone, but unfortunately this is the contribution that some make to the country that they so say they want. In a democratic society – and ours is–, the highest expression of ethics, the highest expression of evolution is nonviolence. Those who artificially relive it show the distance that separates them from that ethics. Many citizens, the vast majority, wonder what to celebrate publicly with those who kidnapped and tortured, with those who murdered, with those who expanded fear for decades. It is such an aberration of tributes that there is no possible answer to this question. A question that is repeated every short time, because the last tribute is not an isolated fact; it is only the last of many others that have been celebrated. The tributes have become a manifestation of hatred towards those who were their victims, a lack of imagination, an attitude that shows total absence of intelligence. A hatred that expresses the anger of its active and passive protagonists, the revenge of cowardice for those who abhor democracy. A hatred perpetrated in the tendency to take every opportunity to harm others and, in particular, the victims. Let us once again speak in this Parliament of the tributes to those who leave prison for having committed acts of terror attest to the resistance of this sector to reintegrate them into democracy. The tributes and their active and passive protagonists manage with this behavior to hinder the reparation of the damage caused to the victims, to sow doubts about their democratic convictions, to delay the necessary coexistence in the Basque Country, to increase fears about the reappearance of intimidation and violence and to exalt the extreme right. This set of barbarities deserves a strong rejection from this Parliament, and today its protagonists are going to take it with the compromise amendment, in which at the end we have been able to bring together all the groups in this House, and which, in my opinion, although for the sake of unity it has been possible, is even short, because the aberration to which we are subject is absolutely intolerable. It is an indecency of an extraordinary magnitude, which has only one solution, which is neither political nor judicial nor police; it is that the perpetrators of the tributes stop doing so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u43	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u44	Mr. President, Congressman, chief officers, good morning to all of you. We challenge public homages made to men, whether they be members of the community or members of the community, when, as a means of obtaining political ends, they have been employed or justified by violence. These persecutions are contrary to the defence of human rights, and they insult victims. That's exactly what we said on February 22nd, 2018, and what we repeat today. Unfortunately, the same discussion brings us together again today, as if things had not changed at all. For us, the Eubertarian patriots, when we speak of basic rights, are in no way indirect. Our opinion is fundamental. 19 months ago and today, it's our same attitude. We very much reject any initiative or act, which may be offensive to the victims, and which brings back the revolt. Killing was wrong. So simple and so difficult, however, to assume for some in this country. And that is the true vault key to the construction of our present and future coexistence. And, unfortunately, until we are able to share that minimum common denominator, it will be very complicated to move forward in larger and quieter projects. Homageing, exalting or publicly exhibiting people who have been members of ETA, who used or justified violence as a means to achieve political ends, is absolutely repugnant, and shame to any decent society. And when I say this, I also mean or serve for the tributes to Franco, to his dictatorship, to those who left corpses in the gutters or to any expression of exaltation of fascism, violence or terrorism. And it is that to the vast majority of this society it hurts that part of its institutional representatives will not be able to share such a clear idea, so basic for coexistence. The reception events organized last July in Hernani and Oñati cannot be described, in any way, as an exercise of the right to embrace. No one is denying – at least we are not – the families and friends of the imprisoned people their joy when they return home after they have served their sentence. No one denies the right to embrace and to facilitate their reintegration into everyday life. In this regard, Mr Barrio, I would like to point out, in the light of a comment you made, that the Basque Government is obviously governed by the principle of legality and respect for the law, and that the rights of assembly and expression, as the Government has repeatedly stated, are fundamental rights, protected by international organizations and with constitutional protection. And therefore, no autonomous law, such as the Victims of Terrorism Act, can limit and, indeed, the courts, on all occasions when they have seen this issue, have given reason to the action of the Basque Government. But I insist: we do not want to deny the right to embrace, but we are not talking about that. That's not what happened in Hernani and Oñati. What was organized was not a hug; a welcome event was organized in the middle of the street. An event was organized with all the elements of a celebration: flags, flares, posters, irrintzis aurresku And I would say more: public tribute was not an unwanted consequence of the exercise of the right to embrace, but rather the act was conceived and organized for that purpose. The objective was to make public and political display of the reception and the trajectory of the persons received. Because things can be done this way or otherwise, and, in fact, there have been other occasions and other ways to receive people, to show that hug, and that is precisely what was chosen. And, unfortunately, these attitudes contribute nothing to the construction of a critical memory of the past; they contribute nothing to the recognition of the unjust damage caused; nothing to the construction of a society based on respect for human rights. These attitudes only produce added pain to the victims. And now is the time to take a step forward, a courageous step, and think of the victims, their pain and the pain of their families. It is time, and now we have, they have some – I would say – the opportunity to recognize that with such acts it is difficult to move forward together. It's time to show courage and end up with these public enterprises. Self- pendente In this regard, I highlight and share the considerations made by the Permanent Social Forum on the occasion of the ongiatorriak ongiatorriak That's the way, and it's not that complicated. Don't add pain to the victims. Develop events in closed spaces. Respect the pain. That's the way. Here's another chance to step forward. The medium we've signed today brings together these goals and paths in the right way. It is an excellent opportunity, therefore, that the representatives of the euscal society to-day should claim their respect for the rights of the victims, and never repeat what has happened in the past. Never again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u45	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. PPk is far toovarian in February 2018, and from that moment there are two differences between the present initiations. At this time he spoke of the disapprobation of the homages, and now they mix so many terms, that they may some way derive their interests from this confusion. Welcomes, homages, elevation, exaltacion del Crimen and we entirely reject the confusion of these terms. Opinion and Pride is a Crime, and such is not the case. A person who has been locked up in prison is returned to the village full of punishment. Nothing is said, much less some events of violence. Once again a man who had been in prison under very hard conditions for years in his own country, in his community, is allowed to return properly to society. But there is another difference between this activity and this activity of today. For PPP does not seek to appear merely in opposition to these events, but what PP desires is to punish these undertakings. We reported that this was their purpose in March 2018, and the next logical step is the demand which he brings to-day in the original initiation-that is to say, to punish welcomes somehow. Because, in fact, we know that the initiative brought to us by the PP does not point without thread, and the logical syllogism it employs is "are tributes, then are crimes, then, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, act." The PP requires the Government, specifically the Department of Security, to act. He asks you, gentlemen of the PNV and PSOE, that, in logical continuity with what was already approved last year, you act now. If they were previously treated as tributes, it is now logical that they require the Ertzaintza to prevent these acts, to charge them, to dissolve them, to arrest them, to make them available to the National Court, and already there their judges will pass judgement, in the same way that Mr. Barrio gives judgment on the basis of the criminal type of elevation of article 578 of the Criminal Code. The original letter of his initiative thus defines these acts as implying discredit, contempt or humiliation. Mr Becerra said that there was no police solution to these kinds of acts, but they have welcomed them in their compromise amendment, and Mr Barrio himself has made it clear again in this rostrum what they intend to pursue through this initiative. And I'm going to play from origin, and I completely deny this interpretation. They're welcome, not homage, not promotional events. The practice of others is neither praised nor applauded, much less the sterculum of others in value. This is an expression of the right the prisoner has to return to his society. They are a practical exercise of the principle of re-enjoying. The neglect and derangement of these persons are exercises to avoid. It's normal and natural that the people around are happy at a time like this. And what's normal and natural shouldn't offend anyone. The feelings of victims are interpreted, and EH Collect has to say that all the victims have the right to receive resentment and attention. We defend this, and we must say clearly that welcome does not seek to humiliate victims. There is no will, no intention. Nobody wants to insult the victims. No one wants to increase their suffering. No one has found any message of vengeance for these events, either for violence, hatred, or violence. In fact, such events would have happened unexpectedly if the focus had not been placed upon them, as happens this time. On the contrary, it is sought at the sobression of these events. Julián Ríos, jurist and scholar on the subject of the prison system, said that the prisoner is much more than the penalty he serves, much more than his relationship with justice or submission to the prison system he has suffered. The prisoner was something more before he went to prison, it's something more during the execution of the sentence and it's something more after he consumed it. Reducing the person arrested to his or her crime is not acceptable. Here it is intended to deprive the imprisoned person of his humanity and to make him an eternal perpetrator and forever, and I find that he has more facets in life, and for them people approach the ongitorris These acts are expressions of welcome to a person in the village, to a person who has already served his sentence. They cannot be linked to acts of exaltation, glorification or apologia of organizations or actions that fortunately Fortunately, they no longer exist. It's not real; it doesn't come with the principle of reality. A conception which you receive in the middle seemed interesting to me, and it was not homage, it was not welcome, it was the confession, and the victims are generally deserving of confession. And in this sense we have more than once said that the exceptional policy of prison destroys the rights of prisoners, received, received, inherited, isolation, dispersion, the systematic, constant, and unjust negation of the progress of the degrees of licence and the benefit of penance. We accuse over and over again the suffering caused by the policy of prison and the gravity which it inspires in the vast sectors of society. Many people interpret prison as revenge, and take the prisoner as the victim of this vengeance. They are victims of systematic irrigation of human beings, and perhaps only in this sense will they be made to confess, since the prisoner is the victim of this penance, some relations, even as friends, of penance. Undoubtedly, reversing the emergency prison policy would mean changing the way in which the prisoner accesses freedom. If, instead of serving the sentence until the last day in a prison hundreds of kilometers from his place of origin the prisoner is in his environment; if he chooses, like the rest of the prisoners, to leave prison with permits; if he enjoys the third degree, without a day D and without an hour H, there would be no ongitorris We believe that this is precisely what we have to face: a step-by-step, progressive exit to freedom – which is what happens, in addition, to the rest of the prisoners – that normalizes the prisoner's release from prison, and this is precisely what is being denied. You, without a doubt, gentlemen of the PP, and perhaps some of those who have welcomed the PP into a transaction, would prefer to leave the prisoners at the door of Algeciras prison after having served their sentence until the last minute, or perhaps with some extra minute, and were abandoned there, not find anyone to pick them up, you have to seek life to return to your people, and once there, when you are already in your people, you have an impossible fit in your society, in your surroundings. They would like them to be eternally marginalized, hopeless, without finding any clothes or roots. We do not want this to happen; we do not want it. The express, without a horizon of social root, without a hope for the future, is the focus of other problems that no one will surely want. You wanted with this initiative, gentlemen of the PP, to throw more wood into the fire; you wanted to generate more suffering by chasing the ongitorris In that debate in March 2018, he told them that the National Court was rejecting the complaints that were being made about these acts. Now we have to say that it is welcoming them, that procedures have been opened, that steps have been taken and that a friend of a prisoner has already been made a statement for participating in an ongiatorri This isn't the way. EH Collect wants to be on the side of the solutions. Welcomes are symptoms of an exceptional prison policy, and we must face this policy of prison. Also, Mr. Iturate, the Sociative Foro demands that, as a whole, we assume an exceptional penance for politics and a certainty. We assume that this initiative does not give an answer in suitable terms. We have no correction, because we thought it was not proper to put PPri into the exclusive frame that interests him, to splash through the mud that they want us all the time. And we want to avoid falling into the mud and looking for complete and definitive solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u47	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u48	Gracias, president. Briefly, first of all, of course, I thank everyone, Mr Becerra, Mr Iturrate and Mr Prieto, for the signature of this initiative by everyone. But I say to Mr Becerra that yes, he is, of course, right: ethical measures are important, but, in matters of law enforcement, police and legal measures are there and must be used. In case of non-compliance, the Criminal Code; in case of non-compliance with the Act on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism, it has to be applied, and that is what the laws are for. We understand that yes, they are at the same time or they are interesting also other kinds of measures, other kinds of debates, but that we must not rule out, much less – and that is what we demand, and we continue to do and will continue to do – those legal measures, those police measures that neutralize those acts of reception, of exaltation, of homage to ETA and to what it represents. Returning to what the spokesman for EH Bildu has commented, Mr Arzuaga, man, today is a bad day for you and for what you represent. And I'm really happy, I'm really glad that it is, that it's a bad day for you. It is quite clear that with your speech you try to manipulate reality. He has wanted to convince us that there are no tributes, that there are no receptions for ETA criminals, that there is an absolute normality; therefore, you must be the only one who perceives it this way. Let's see, most, the vast majority of society, almost all political parties, the government delegate in the Basque Country, the vast majority of the editorials of the Basque and Spanish media, the very lehendakari of the Basque Government, the members of the Basque Government... all these people have understood it as what they are, as tributes to ETA, as receptions, and that these expressions are bad for society, that these expressions take us away from coexistence, that we must reject them, and that we have seen and heard it. You must be the only one who, in that drive of what is the idea, the thought of what surrounded ETA publicly, now has to do that manipulation of what is not interpretable. That's why society, the parties, the lehendakari, the government delegate... We heard what we heard. I re-emphasize what the Government delegate said in August in relation to the tributes and analysis he was doing. He said that they are the foreword of a rebound, or that they may be, that there is a risk of a rebound of violence and terrorism. That's very serious. I mean, that's not what the People's Party invents and brings in the People's Party, which you also permanently become the interpreter of what we can bring or say, or what our proposals are and what our convictions are and what we want to convince the House of. We have not convinced the House of anything; we have reached an agreement, and that is why I was telling you that it is a bad day for you and your group, and that I am glad. But I say again: it has been the delegate of the Government who has made those reflections, and the delegate of the Government has said that administrative measures must be taken to comply with the laws, which are there. That is what society as a whole thinks, and, of course, every day the interpretation you make is far removed from that interpretation of society as a whole. And now, moreover, already at the height of the expression, of the identification of those acts of exaltation, of those receptions, of those tributes, now the fault is going to be of the media because they talk about them, because they put them in the media so that the others will know, because they talk about the reception of Ortega Lara's kidnapper or the murderer of a lot of police, civilian guards or councillors; so it is now also the fault of the media, because it is those who reflect that idea that you support, hoist, participate in the tributes to the members of ETA. I mean, everyone's to blame, the whole society's to blame, except Mr. Arzuaga and EH Bildu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u49	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u50	Mr. Barrio, just by allusions. The fact that police and judicial measures are out of place is not that our group says so, but that the judges themselves have already said so. And, in fact, that you sign this transaction, in some way, what shows is that those paths, however much they might be desirable for you, in reality are not possible. If there had been judicial or police measures in this transaction, our group would not have been in the signature. I wouldn't have been at the firm. Because I repeat here that what we have to apply are ethical considerations. Our group did not come to this Parliament to keep everything the same, but to try to bring in a new voice, not more authorized, of course, but a new voice. You, Mr Arzuaga, wanted to lead us to a terminological debate on what are or are not tributes, and the debate is not there. Nor is it in how many people come together, neither is it in whether they come together in a public space or not, but in what they come together for and what is the result with regard to the victims of these people coming together. Then, there we enter into an ethical debate, and, of course, our group has an ethical position, and yours has another, and if we enter into that ethical debate, we could begin to come to conclusions. Our group – and I imagine yours – never liked the tributes to the LAGs; we never liked the receptions in Guadalajara prison. His spokesman, Mr Otegi, said in 2001 in this plenary, referring to the socialists – I imagine –: "You mounted that kind of mariachi in Guadalajara prison to say that, regardless of what you had done or not, Mr Rafael Vera and Mr Barrionuevo were citizens worthy of the utmost respect." They said it 18 years ago. They were not citizens worthy of the utmost respect; they were not. Our group thinks so and defends it ethically. So the question is whether we apply different ethical considerations. You say, "This is going to make it hard to empty the jails." The Permanent Social Forum itself stated in its press note of 31 July that tributes jeopardize existing consensus on the issue of prisoners. What we have to look at is the result they achieve with these tributes, not look at the terminology issues. And back to the ethical question, I'm going to ask you one last question. You don't accept the Let's say – ethical ground that has been established in this House; they do not accept that violence was unjust; they do not accept, in these words, that killing was wrong. But they have accepted and said, "We regret the damage done to the victims." So, I ask you here and now: do you regret the damage to the victims caused by this summer's tributes? And with that answer, we'll see if we have a base or we don't have a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u51	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u52	President, ladies and gentlemen. The worst part of this debate in relation to the previous one – when it was also discussed in this Parliament – is not that a number of tributes have taken place. – which is also very serious – but the worst is that, once again, Bildu again rejects any opportunity to build a coexistence among all, to be able to establish an ethics among all, to recognize that killing was a real aberration and to try to compensate, in a way, with the victims for the damage caused. The problem is that every time there is an opportunity in this Parliament to try to add, to try to get rid of that black period, Bildu does what he does is to take steps back. It's putting more on the corner, more on the end. This does not fill us with surprise, but it does fill us with indignation. It does not surprise us, because there are many actions in recent times where it is constantly a question of delegitimizing democracy and the instruments of democracy. There are many interventions by Bildu in this House in which, in the face of any action by the Ertzaintza, he is intended to criminalise him; in which, in the face of any manifestation in relation to the ETA terrorists, they are given the consideration of political prisoners; in which, in the face of this barbarity of tributes, it is intended to establish a relationship of heroism in what they did, or that there was some noble cause that motivated them and led them to exercise it. This is the big problem. The big problem is the huge distance that Bildu keeps, which keeps Sortu with democracy, with democratic convictions, with ethics, with empathy with the victims, with the values that have to preside over any political formation and any democratic institution. This is what is really serious about this situation, and it is what is really serious about the words of the spokesman, who, once again, tries to make those speeches all over again with endless words and words that serve absolutely nothing, that have no content, that are empty; that the only thing he does is, perhaps, take a step back from the overwhelming unanimity that exists in the whole of the Democrats in this House, and be a little more cautious, and then do some sort of thesis on what is or is not a tribute. This is the game that, in reality, hides, or not, because no one is overlooked that inability to approve democracy, to have democratic behavior, to have ethical behavior, to try that in the Basque Country, once and for all, we pass so much horror page, in which some of you were important protagonists and still seem to embrace that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u53	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u54	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, you said the initiative wanted to cause confusion. I, in truth, do not know how to examine the wills or ends of others in the original action; Assumption isn't... there has been confusion in everything else. I have felt a greater confusion in your speech than in our middle-class correction, when it is mixed up with prison policy and which is now in use. Because, around the prison policy, our behavior is clear. In fact, it is a clear attitude of the legislature, this legal and the preceding, but this is where the proclamations have been made about the policy of the prison, about the poor prisoners, about the express application, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. And in every case, the Jelt Party of the Euko, the Eucus patriots have been present. A paradox, which is repeated every year, and repeated throughout history, is here clario: in these enterprises, the Journal Party is with EH Collector, or the EH Union unites in these enterprises, and the Poptular Party remains outside. On the other hand, in these enterprises, the E.H., does not appear, does not approach, and, on the other hand, the Popular Party is not near; Mr Arzuaga, it is that not everything morally reprehensible is a crime, even from the ethics and public morality that exists, and any society must have a minimum shared public ethics. Look, I'll give you an example. The Bus of Make You Hear walking through the streets of the State, even of Euskadi, saying that "children have penis, and girls, vulva", counterattacking the reality and rights of certain people, is, in my opinion, an indecency and shame to the majority of this society, starting with you, who, by the way, in this case do ask the authority to ban the bus that walks the streets of Euskadi, and demand the Basque Government to ban the bus that works. There it is not protected by freedom of expression, and in this case it is. It's indecent and embarrassing. According to you, in the tributes, in what we have seen, in those corridors with flares in which everything is shouted, it does not honor, it does not exalt a story. I'm not going to start discussing what the limit is, how far it can be allowed, the hug as far as it can go, how much it can be tight or not. I'm just going to propose an exercise. Think that, instead of the two people who were making that triumphal walk, it was, for example, the false Shaolin who was doing it. And honestly, answer if you would be holding the same position. I'm really sorry to see your attitude today. I don't think you're taking a step, and it's a step to take, and it'll come sooner or later. I don't know if he's going to get there, but some of your teams have taken these steps, and now they're taking a step back. I don't know how it can be comfortable to say yes or yes to the voter today, for instance, who are members of the Eusgarchy, who have been saying that for years and years, or after saying what has been said in front of the July act, or when they have said about the Homes or the Sorozian Act. You see, there's a clear road to not splash in the mud, to get out of the mud: You jump out of the mud, dig out, and accept some of the least moral principles. And there is a minimum of ethical principles either of which human rights are columns, to admit that the life of every man is superior to every political project. And this leads us to say that what has happened was wrong, and that is still a penitent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u55	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. And, finally, Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturate, did you really think this PP's initiation was the best context to search for extensive agreements? When you saw the initiation, did you really think that this would lead us to a great agreement, where, not only to a particular problem, but to the general problem, we would have given it an integral and final answer? Do you think that was the end of the PP? Do you think that was an interpreter context? This equipment was of no use for an integral and final solution, and this is exactly what EH Collect puts on the table. The problem here is whether it must be public or private, but in these events publicity is never sought, no press notice is made, no press notice is addressed to the press. There are some here who place the communicative focus on these cases for a particular interest, and it was an interest to take you to this medium. Mr. Barrio said well: what he seeks is, in some measure, to attack, arrest, and apply the law in this sense. You've got the program straight on the road, and you're asking that the intellect of training is suspended, and it's a good opportunity, too, for you to plan that part of your middle-day. But you'd rather accept the concept frame of PP. Mr. Prieto, you, in fact, are not ongitorris. And Mr. Becerra mentioned the subject, but there's a difference. And the difference is that they served just a few months in prison, they were given absolute impunity, the Aznar government gave them pardon, and today Mr. Vera continues to be proud of his involvement in state terrorism. I manipulate reality, Mr. Barrio tells me. I do not like to have to rely on the constitutional mandate – "the prisoner has the right to his social reintegration, to his resocialization" – in the guiding principle of prison policy – "avoid the uprooting during and also after the sentence"–. And I don't like it either, but I won't be so manipulative of reality when the National Audience – its National Audience – has not yet given a cloud to its interests of exaltation or of considering that there is exaltation in these kinds of initiatives. He is very concerned about the presence of children involved in these acts, even being supported by that grotesque speculation made by Mr Loza saying that it was a breeding ground for radicalisation and an armed uprising, perhaps in the future. But he doesn't care so much about these children when they have to take the backpack every weekend to travel hundreds of miles to visit their relatives, their parents, their mothers, their grandparents, those loved ones. They do not care about the aggravation that is their suffering of having to make a visit in these conditions, and I do care about the sword of Damocles that hangs on them through dispersion and the possibility, moreover, of it having a fatal outcome. I know this is exactly the same to you. Indeed, gentlemen of the PP, because you have no problems with the tributes, the perpetrators of serious human rights violations under your responsibility never went to jail. You granted them pardons, rewarded them, decorated them and ascended them. Moreover, they were brought here the day we supported or were adopting a Victims Act, and put in front of their victims to deny them their mere existence. You keep teaching me about respect for the victims.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u57	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote for the Basque popular, the Basque Socialists, the half-correction signed by the Podemos and Euubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 56; the opponents are 18; the whites are 0.0. Absencesion is 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-03.u58	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. I'll read you an institutional statement next. "The institutional expression of the state of human rights in the colony: "In July, a delegation of the Basque Law, together with a few institutions of the Euskion and civil society, was visited in the Colonbian, a temporary defense of Human Rights to the Definators of the United States in the Euskal Program. "After a visit to the settlement, and the introduction of the documents, the Basque parliament expresses this: "One. After the settlements of peace were signed, we find that violence has increased, and that the attacks against the defenders of human rights, threats and criminalization have increased, especially among those who are active and active in defence of peace and land. "Two. We are concerned with the situation in the countries where the armed agents who prefer economic interests above the protection of individuals, and quarrel with their control. These groups systematically exterminate the human rights of women and of native communities, of farmers and of aphrodists. The representative of the legislature has been a witness to the threats which have been made to occupy the territory against the Communist Council of La Toma. "Hiru. We recognize and support the commendable work of people who peacefully defend human rights every day, and those who are forced to leave their territories and ways of life as a measure of protection. We also share his unconditional commitment to peace and support for the work of the Special Justice for Peace, the Truth Commission and the comprehensive implementation of the Peace Agreements. "Lau. We appreciate the progress made by the Office of the Prosecutor in implementing the investigation and strengthening strategy to prosecute any crimes committed against human rights defenders, and we appreciate your commitment to follow up on the agreements adopted after the civil stoppage of Buenaventura. "Bost. We urge the institutions to implement mechanisms for collective prevention and protection, to make the work of defenders visible and to highlight, and to pay particular attention to the most threatened areas and groups. "Six. We thank the defenders, the community, and the reception of the other institutions, institutions, and international institutions, and we pledge ourselves to continue the state of human rights, and to ensure that their work may be fulfilled according to the security conditions of security. We will devote special attention to what we have agreed on during the process of peace, and to the establishment of it in an efficient and integrated manner. "Seven. In the same way, we express our concern for the violence and threat of the rare municipal and regional elections. According to the movement of elections, between 27th of October 2018 and August 27, 2019, the political, social and common leaders have suffered violence and have killed 91 of them since the election competition began. Hence we repeat to the rulers of Colombia that the rights of the candidates of all political elections of Colombia must be assured and respected, in order that the election may be made at liberty." It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was twelve o'clock at noon and thirty-four.
