ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, I declare that the tenth point has been left for another. First point in theme list: "The question is, "The parliamentary members of the staff of Miranda Epiñaz, the staff of the Society, made to the head physician of Eplegus and Polic Societys, about the contributions made by the Department of Empeducous and Polylytic Society for the care of the machista of violence." Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all. Violence is one of the most serious problems that concern the whole society in general and the institution. It's true he's got the lowest female rate in the state that's been murdered. But the sum of women who accuse this condition is still troubling. Nevertheless, our aim must be to avoid the still strong position and the maxist violence at the present day, at 100 percent, to act in the bud. We're aware that Red M.M., too, makes a lot of effort to treat women who are victimized, even to work on prevention and sensibilization. This commitment against macho violence at all levels is an inter-agency and inter-departmental joint effort. Coordination between different actors is essential in order to eradicate this violence against women, which unfortunately still exists in our society. That is why we want to ask the Commissioner for Employment and Social Policy the following question: What contribution does the Department of Employment and Social Policy make to the work of the Basque Government for the attention of male violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u3	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. Unfortunately, violence against women has a structural character, affects all vital dimensions and areas, and women murdered in our autonomous community over the past few years are but the tip of the iceberg of the inequality of our society. And now, more than ever, we must stand on the wall in front of the negationism of the far right macho and continue to increase the means against this bloody inequality. In addition to an absolute condemnation, we must stress that Euskadi will only be able to advance as a cohesive and developed society if we succeed in ending this inequality. In order to address violence against women, it is necessary to intensify an inter-agency response that provides personalized attention. Whatever women's gateway to the system of protection against male violence, the answer must be unique. We need to continue to step up coordinated and comprehensive aid, with the proactive involvement of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, Emakunde, Ertzaintza, Housing, Justice, as well as outlaws and municipalities. In our department we pushed on the information and attention of women who are victims of violence or of the Sateviist. We've even increased one-time economic preparation for women who are victims of violence. The profession pays attention to victims, to ensure the programmes and incomes of their own society and labor. Since 2006, with the launch of the Satiti, a telephone for these victims, we have accompanied this vulnerable and sensitive group. With its 900840111 and its pioneer agreement with the 016 state telephone, it has served more than 30,000 women in Euskadi since its creation. We have a team of specialized professionals in charge of this immediate, anonymous, confidential and free service, which received a total of 2,688 requests for care. The Satiti is available 24 hours a day 365 days a year. We are preparing new awareness-raising actions. Women who suffer violence often feel helpless, not knowing where to go; Satiti listens, guides and accompanies them. At present, the Department of Employment and Social Policy allocates more than €10 million per year to victims of sexist violence, in addition to resources allocated by other departments. From the offices of Lanbide we offer a specific socio-laboral counselling service for women victims of sexist violence; through the guardian figure of gender-based violence, 130 professionals attend to these women. In 2020 we will continue to strengthen training in Lanbide for the detection and prevention of possible situations of violence against women. In addition, RGI addresses the basic needs of women victims, as well as their children. Last year, a total of 1,400 women victims received income guarantee income. We have also re-edited the guide What to do about violence against women? It is one of the priority objectives of this country to continue to make Euskadi a society...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Second point on the subject list: "I'm asking you, you find Casanova Alonso EH collect members of the team to the head of the Department of Economics and Sub-Separations, about the response Auruc and Cables in front of the state of the Alambres. " Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u5	Good morning to all of us and especially to the workers of Araluce, who are with us today. 120 years ago, the company of Franco Española de Cables de Acero was founded at Oval. Today, CAESA, who is the heir of this company, Cables y Aormbres Speciales Socieda Anionima, is about to close. 122 jobs in danger. In 2015, the Vicinay team bought Cables y AAMmbres company with a promise to refresh it, but there has been no investments in this area and the factory has been in a case of mistake and old age. In July, this summer, events were accelerated, and the company announced the departures, the prospects, the precedents, and the competition. Last November 8, you put the border into the factory in Araluce to cut down production. One group bought Araluce's factory in 2016, in this case also, with a promise to recover it, but in October 2019, the commander of the Baat announced to the workers of Araluce that they were to shut up the company before December 31. From that point on, mobilizations have been constant, but unfortunately we've reached a patronial closing and now we're to a creditor's concursion. All this time, we've seen everything about these two companies: There have been tensions, discussions, mutations, communicatings, motives... We've seen everything. Of all, except one thing: Except for fun, because we didn't see it. And that's why I'm asking you, Mrs. Tapia. Where have you been in front of the two companies? Where are you now?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman and all of you who have come, good morning. First of all, Mr. Casanova, it must be said that the problem you mention is a private problem, a problem between companies and workers, and I didn't know that the government and the hiccup have suddenly turned into a state of administration and creditors. But fun has its instruments and it doesn't just go in the media when problems happen, but from the beginning. As you know, in the industrial plan, one of our business furrows is to help people who are in trouble, to accompany and to place resources in some way to find a way out. Resources, financial tools, and helper programs. Everything. But not only that, but also in this legislature, we mentioned what our protocol was, not only in communication, but in order to find out the proper solution to the board, the owners, and the workers. That's where we've been and where we'll be. If he's alone in the streets or media, nothing can be solved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u9	Well, Mrs. Tapia... That you consider a private problem to 200 industrial workers, in two regions very affected by unemployment and de-industralisation, I think it is quite revealing of your position. When does the Basque Government decide to intervene in a problem? When workers have been camping at the door of a company for weeks heating up with wood in cans? Or when the police enter a factory? Because it seems that the only department that has moved in this case is the Department of Safety; neither Work nor Industry have responded at the right time. You – and I know it's a serious issue, but I always like to put a note of humor – remember that phrase from Van Gaal, don't you? For we could apply it: always reactive, never proactive. They never respond to problems at the right time, and when they appear, it is always late and at the request of any of the parties. This Government needs a protocol for intervention in the face of firms in crisis, which is precisely that, proactive, which is beginning to act at the right time. You're late, and here's a role for the government. In both cases, both in Cables and Wires and in the purchase of Araluce by Batz, you intervened in your time. You have the task of scanning the market or the situation of the leading Basque companies and contact them when they detect problems. I do not say that they intervene – as was said yesterday – to decide whether yogurts have to be chacoli or coconut, or whether they have to sell a ton of cables at one price or another; but when a company with more than 100 workers is about to close, that is not a private problem. And you have to intervene, and you have to show up, and you have to face it, and you don't have to wait for the workers to call you. They have to show up there with a suitcase full of alternatives and proposals and, as I always tell you, they cannot guarantee to keep all the companies open, because that would generate false expectations. You don't have that obligation, but you do have the obligation to be there and offer a whole array of resources that you have, plans for employee ownership, looking for new investors, support for new investments... That has to be done, not when the workers are knocking at their door, when the situations are deteriorating to the extreme, when we are already in a very advanced competitive situation, but from the moment the problem is detected. And I want to appeal to the Batz company, in particular, to manage it in another way, because it is carrying things very badly and if it is true that there is a fundamental economic problem, they are helping to make the situation worse with their attitude and to generate even more tension.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u11	Mr. Casanova, I'll answer with your temper. As it seems that in Basque you have not understood me, I will not repeat myself in Spanish, because I know perfectly well that you have understood me and you have contradicted yourself. Do we have tools or don't we have them? Do we have protocol or don't we have protocol? Because if we have a whole array of tools, actually, there they are and we're working on them. And you told me, "They worked with both CAESA and Batz the previous time when they were in trouble and a solution was proposed." Then we intervened and we continued to work. Moreover, since it is a situation in two private companies, the companies themselves have proposed a possible solution, an alternative to the workers. What has been worked out, and that solution has been denied? Okay. There are other alternatives that we are working with right now. What do we have to look for? As you have rightly said – and that is the only thing we agree on – looking for an alternative for employment for these people, but for those companies, both of them, to be able to do so. –Vicinay and CAESA, and Batz and Araluce – continue their activity. That's not simple, because it depends on the market as well, as you well know. But you have also said this – you accuse me of not doing so, and yet we do – we make it available to each and every one of the companies. – because there are more in difficulties; in addition to these two, there are more companies in difficulties – all the tools we have, each and every one of the tools, but always, and you know it well, it has to be with the agreement of the workers, provided there is a viability plan and, of course, with the participation of the main shareholders of each of the companies. And those are the premises on which we can act. No one else. And that's how we act, looking for alternatives. I insist, not at the time when the problem appears in the media or in the street; no, much sooner. That is true, without making much noise, because things are sorted out, of course, by putting on the table different alternatives, alternatives that we have available and that have been put on the table. I insist: both companies, Batz and Vicinay, as responsible for the acquisition of Cables and Wires and the acquisition of Araluce, have put on the table an alternative. That it wasn't ideal? Probably. But an alternative. That he refused? Other ways of doing this will have to be sought, but it cannot be denied that there has been will and work on the private side and on the part of the Government. If you don't want to see it, that's another issue. If you want, I'll tell you in English so you can understand me better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martíne, together with the members of the Podemos team, to the president, about the new political scene." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u13	Mr. President, good morning. What's your rating on the new political stage that's opened after the final election?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. Martínnez, I don't know if it would be enough to answer a word, but such games don't make me any fun, though we've had such dynamics before. But, as I'm trying to answer, I'll tell you that I appreciate the new stage as a possibility, a possibility to use it. Five steps, five steps, I defend the necessity of putting them on as soon as possible: One to agree to a program. Two, make sure there's stability in order to start answering the hinges. Three, over-saving. Four, he can guarantee your leadership. Five, let's take the budget. It has been long since lost, but it is true that the first steps of this law have been taken with a new attitude. This is what I positively appreciate, to return to the course of dialogue and agreement, to the course of politics. I hope from this position that he will respect the government and set up a new government that will fulfill the commitments he has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u17	Well, in our opinion, election spirit brought us two concerns, and I think we all share them in this Chamber. It is the first place in the United States that the right extreme succeeded in Congress, and the speech of their hatred, and their inlerance with so many different differences, both in the manners of the nation, in a privileged position, both in vice and in political influency. That's kind of disturbing, though. And also a Congress of the Congress of Congress, which has great frustration and very complex arithmetic. A complicated but not impossible fragmentation. Right now there is a possibility of forming a progressive government in the state, which has taken note on the one hand of the discontent and tiredness of the citizenry blockade; and on the other, of the emergency situation that means having a strong and rising extreme right. We have no doubt that the agreement reached by the Socialist Party and the United States We can in the State is good for Euskadi. First of all, because a situation of blockade is emerging and opens the door to political normality, but also, without a doubt, because the programmatic agreements will serve us to address issues that take too long to wait: the repeal of the labour reform that affects many workers in Euskadi, and the Mordaza Law; the impetus of the state pact against macho violence, the climate change law, or the debate on the future of the pension system. On Saturday the pensioners will again be mobilized, having fought for many months, and would not understand that the diversions of making a treaty with indifference or any difference would be the ruin of the possibility of this government, and that a government which will lead to their concessions. We are talking about a government that also makes a commitment to dialogue, which is right now the only starting point that can make a solution to a territorial conflict that is enquished, tense and judicialized viable. And dialogue is also the way, for example, to advance the updating of the Statute of Gernika, to advance respect for our self-government, as well as to address without political stridentities or political threats of any government the relationship of Euskadi with the State. Dialogue and solutions. Who can this look bad to? I believe that we have all learned a great deal nowadays, these parties, these people, that political tension leads him to a challenge, and that the disaffection gives facility to the right end to make politics. And now they're the biggest threat our rights have. Therefore, to the extent that, without any doubt, there is a progressive government in the State, and that it undertakes, on the one hand, to carry out policies that make hate speech unusable to the extreme right and, on the other, make a bet for dialogue, I believe that no Basque force can afford to vote alongside the extreme right to continue the blockade and there is a new opportunity for the fascists to continue to gain strength. And also, Mr Lehendakari, from Elkarrekin We hope that the policies that your Government is carrying out will contribute to making Euskadi a spearhead against the extreme right, defending and securing rights, defending the freedoms that we have won, ensuring that no one is left behind, and people feel represented by institutions that work for the welfare of the majority and not for interests that are neither their own nor party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u19	Mr Martínez, you made reference to two characteristics or circumstances that occurred last Sunday during the election day. One is the one relative to the extreme right or the extreme right. Another, complexity, fragmentation. I have put before him the five steps, such as agreeing on a programme, ensuring stability, overcoming investiture, also guaranteeing governability and, ultimately, approving budgets as well. I'm in favour of looking forward and I'm going to do it today too. These last few days, in relation to what you have also said, have shown that, with will and discretion, realism and responsibility, it is possible to understand and reach agreements, even if these agreements cannot please everyone. Much remains to be done, but the relative positive change in the political attitude is evident. It is essential to create a new climate of confidence. It is also essential to establish relations on a programme of commitments and to demonstrate a high level of vision in the face of an economic, social and political scenario of maximum complexity. I hope and hope that the first agreement will be able to integrate sufficient sensitivities. I hope that it will address the problem of territoriality in the State with realism and applying the principles of policy; that it will also assume as tasks pending immediate implementation issues such as the boost to the productive economy and industry, investment in infrastructure, the youth guarantee plan, the in-depth change in labour reform, the guarantee of pensions or the ecological-energy challenge. In the case of Euskadi, which you also mentioned in the last part of your speech, I hope and hope that this new time will have at least two positive effects. First, that realism and coherence prevail, so that the incipient framework of agreement in Madrid finds its correspondence in Euskadi. Secondly, the Spanish Government should fulfil its commitments, which prioritized the full implementation of the Gernika Statute, taking up the timetable and work plan it had adopted on 22 January. There is no time to waste to ensure governance and to respond to the economic, social, territorial and political challenges we face. Our disposition in that regard is also absolute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. The fourth point in the theme list. "The question is, Alexia Castelo de Sescala Sozia, members of the team of Parliaments to the Chief of Work and Justice, about setting up a pilot's project with you." Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u21	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, señora consejé. Before yesterday, Wednesday, when he appeared in the Committee on Budgets for the presentation of the accounts of the Department of Labour and Justice which you direct, after congratulating him on the so substantial improvement that has been promoted, during this parliamentary term, of the services of collaboration with the justice system, especially of the Basque Service for the Management of Penalties and of the Service for the Care of Victims, with a clear bet, on the one hand, for the alternative, resocializing and re-educational measures, re-integrating in society, and, on the other hand, for the comprehensive care of victims of crime, I told him that, unfortunately, today there is a social reality that has a special impact on the Administration of Justice and that is inescapable for any public authority. I meant at the time, and I mean today, macho violence. And I am glad that today is the second time that we are going to talk about this issue with that denialist reality that is trying to impose on us by that far right that has just arrived at Congress. Madam Councilwoman, there is no doubt that one of the most unbearable phenomena in our society, in a decent society, is gender-based violence or violence against women, which represents one of the most obvious and clear symptoms of the inequality that exists in our society between men and women. The idea of male supremacy over women is the principle that inspires one of the most flagrant attacks on fundamental rights such as freedom, dignity, equality, security and non-discrimination. For a long time, gender-based violence has been a hidden reality. The public authorities did not respond in a coordinated or unanimous manner to this phenomenon; it was often a private circumstance, which is still happening in other countries. The awareness of women and their mobilization over the past decades have led society as a whole to take far more sensitive and frontal positions against the problem. And in that line we have to keep going. The institutions of our rule of law, driven by political parties – although not all of them – and civil society are responding more and more forcefully to male-based violence in a coordinated and comprehensive manner. The State Pact against Gender Violence is an example of the way forward to end this scourge. Ms. San José, within the competence of your department are those of assisting victims of crimes on the basis of the provisions of Law 4/2015 of the Statute of the victim of the crime, which establishes, among other issues, the support of victims in judicial proceedings. Victims of gender-based violence are victims of special personal, social, emotional and vulnerable circumstances that need to be taken into account. Specialized and personalized care for victims is a need that you have assumed and faced for women victims of gender-based violence to be accompanied during these judicial proceedings throughout the judicial process. This attention, of course, is appreciated by a number of legal operators. Without going further, next Monday, in three days, we will have the opportunity to listen in the Commission of Labor and Justice of this House to doña Carmen Adam, chief prosecutor of the Basque Country, in the presentation of the report of the Prosecutor's Office for the financial year 2018. In it, the Office of the Counsel, as you are well aware, expressly acknowledges the work of the Office of Victim Care, highlighting the comprehensive, coordinated and specialized assistance provided by the Office to respond to the specific legal, psychological and social needs of victims. Closely linked to this service, you have launched, as you told us in your appearance, a pilot program that comes to cover the integral accompaniment to victims of gender-based violence: the Zurekin program. So, counselor, I ask you to answer me in plenary: What are the objectives and characteristics of the Zurekin pilot project, and what is your future projection? Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. It requires precise information about the Zurekin pilot project that we are driving from the Department of Labour and Justice. The reason for committing this project is based on two fundamental reasons: One, as you have said, is the jurisdictional responsibility conferred on us by the current legislation and the department's structure decree. The other reason is the Basque Government's commitment to combating gender-based violence. We're more than just a department, we're on that job. The Department of Work and Justice relates in judicial proceedings to aid the victims of the crime. In general, any victim of any crime needs help to overcome the situation that has caused him to have suffered such a circumstance. But in the case of victims of gender-based violence, difficulties and vulnerability are increasing. Through the Department of Justice, the Department of Labour and Justice manages the victim care service. This administrative figure adopted for its development is that of contract, derived from the corresponding public tender. In this case the contracting entity is the Euskadi Social Reinsertion Institute, IRSE-EBI. The anxiety the department has to improve in this area, and to pursue the victims of violence, was thus introduced to a pilot of the Justice Management, that plan. It was based on the IRSE-EBI's experience. Comprehensive support for women victims of violence is a tool that aims to alleviate the emotional impact of judicial proceedings, allowing women to face these experiences as citations, procedures, appearances and other judicial proceedings in a less stressful way. The need for accompaniment also derives from the lack of knowledge of the environment and of the legal and judicial language, and the resulting insecurity of the victim in the face of a situation that may be of vital importance to the victim. To this should be added the possible participation of the sons and daughters, who will also be accompanied by the persons providing the service. Another circumstance to avoid is the possible encounter with the victim in the courthouse or in the vicinity. The specific actions will be those of information, location, location of the different judicial units and emotional containment, if necessary. However, the circumstances of the victims are not all the same; therefore, it will be the responsibility of the psychosocial, judicial, comprehensive forensic assessment teams or the different courts to assess and determine the type and level of accompaniment required. This new service is located in Bilbao's Palace of Justice, Barroeta Aldamar Street, 10, and has the technical assistance of five people specialists in the social and psycho-educational field. The pilot project was launched on 1 October and will run until 31 December 2020. The cost of the service is close to 250.000 euros. Mrs Castelo, what we want with this pilot experience is to be able to have the necessary elements to analyze the scope of comprehensive support for victims of gender-based violence, and to be able to take the appropriate decisions to expand it and correct the aspects that are considered appropriate in order to improve care for victims. It is an obligation for us as an executive to help eliminate, or as little as possible to alleviate, the destructive effects that gender-based violence has and to bring about, among all, the disappearance of this social scourge. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u24	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team made to the president about the facts of the Euscadian unemployment." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government. Mr Lehendakari, it rains and it is cold, winter is approaching, it has arrived early and also in economic data and in employment data. I ask you today for the last ones we have been knowing, especially for the data we knew from the third quarter. They are bad, they certainly mark a change of trends in a context that is complex, in a context that is worrying. The occupied population fell, the labour force also fell, unemployment increased in Euskadi and, therefore, as I say to you, the context does not favor and the situation seems to be difficult. I am not going to gloss over the data, because I ask you for the assessment you make of it and what the situation is and what we can expect for the future, the evolution of that data in our community. But I have listened to you in the question of courtship that has been raised by the caste, Mr Lander Martínez, to say, talking about labour reform and has worried me. It seems to you that you trust that this government that wants to form, if it comes out, because it can liquidate the labor reform that, I will tell you, sincerely, helped a lot to get out of the crisis situation in which we lived; it favored that with 2% growth we could also be in an expansive phase of employment in Spain. And I think it's risky to play with certain things, I'm worried about that, I'm worried, I don't share your illusion and your hope with the government that can be formed, that seems to want to form between the Socialist Party and the United We can, and I think that that introduces a more complex factor and it seems to me that it can complicate the economic future in the Basque Country and the future of employment. So I want you to give me an assessment of the data, but I also want you to clear up my concern about the economic policies that are being announced.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I wonder how I value the latest unemployment data in the Basque Country, and I value them as always, with perspective, as an indicator of more than one general trend. The unemployment data show us two realities; it is true that in October there were 1,700 more people registered in Lanbide in demand of employment; but it is also true that there were 16,000 more people working and contributing to Social Security, Mr Alonso. So certain is one thing like the other. This means that the working population, to which you have referred, Mr Alonso, the working population has increased by 17,700 people. The vast majority have found employment and 1,700 people have not. But, in itself, the increase in the labour force is positive. In any case, creating more and better jobs is and will remain our priority. We have much to do and I assure you that the entire Government is focused on achieving this goal. Therefore, in view of its concern about what might be the Basque Government's proposal, where appropriate, with regard to the socio-economic situation, creating more and better jobs is what we have set as a priority in our programme, within the framework programme for economic recovery and job creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u29	Okay. I'll tell you the data they take at Eurostat. It is the third-quarter EPA: the decline in the third-quarter labour force was 0.92% in the Basque Country. In Spain as a whole, this population increased by 0.23%. You also know the data and the trend is worrying. But I have been delighted, as I say, with this new government, whose programme we do not know anyone, because the only thing we know so far is that Pablo Iglesias is going to be vice president of the government, if you want. It seems that you want and I see you with great enthusiasm. It is even announced that a communist can be placed in the Ministry of Labour, which does not seem flattering for employment expectations, or is not what we thought before. We have also heard, apart from labour reform, that there is a will to increase public spending, a will to increase taxes as well. I tell you that the policies that are announced in that government that they call progressive cannot be more regressive to the economic prospects, and you know it. And besides, you agree with what I'm telling you, and you know it. And perhaps, on the occasion of these new scenarios and these things that happen in Madrid, because you from Podemos are now going to approve the budget. And you may think that then that will give you fantastic stability to finish your term. And I think you have to be careful about one thing, it is not going to be that economic developments deteriorate so fast, and that employment data, with measures that are reckless on the part of that government, deteriorate so fast that you have to dissolve not for lack of budgets, but so that bad economic and employment data in the Basque Country do not fall on your head next year. And you'll tell me, you're a pain in the ass. We've seen this movie before, we've seen it. You supported Zapatero's economic policy and so it was. And now it seems that you have confidence in Pedro Sánchez and I then have reached the limit of my astonishment, because it will turn out that the PNV are the only Spaniards who still trust the word of Pedro Sánchez. Be careful with these partners in Madrid and try to guarantee on the Basque agenda the employment of Basques as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, the truth is that I don't know why we're doing this question-answer procedure, because you know what I think; you know, therefore, what I'm going to do; you know everything that, in principle... So, if you know, I don't know what you're asking me for. [[Barres]] All right, fine, that will be recorded in the sitting paper, Mr Alonso; it's just in case I don't know what I think or what I don't know what I think is going to happen. In any case, Mr Alonso, I would like to reiterate that our country's challenge is to reduce unemployment below 10% by 2020. At present it is 9.2% and we have reached 978,000 contributors, at only 4,000 of the 2008 peak. It's not enough. We must also ensure the growth of 2.2% of gross domestic product this year; we must achieve job creation in the 21 branches of economic activity. At this time 16 are already creating jobs. Five years ago, Mr Alonso, there were 78 people unemployed for each vacancy; today they have been reduced to 20. We need to create more opportunities and help improve the quality of employment, especially to support women, youth and the long-term unemployed. And this is what we want the new Spanish government – if it is confirmed that there is going to be a Spanish government – to do as well. We are moving forward with the Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Recovery, and we will meet the objectives set at the beginning of this autonomous legislature: more than 45,000 jobs encouraged and a first job opportunity for more than 20,000 young people. We have important assets: debt targets – by the way, Mr Alonso, says that we support Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's policy. You also raised the express reform of the Constitution by supporting the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in what is the imposition of the deficit target, and we meet the deficit target and spending rule. Complimentary. Accredited solvency, boost to investment, innovation, internationalisation and industry. The overall economic situation to which you have referred is uncertain, but our challenge and responsibility is to continue to support business and the productive economy to overcome the difficulties. So, Mr. Aronso, our priority is to promote more and more employment, even the whole society, and we know the difficulties of economy and corporations closely. Therefore it is the time to act carefully, to encourage growth and employment, and this is the time for every moment to push and do what we shall do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpologies made by the congressmen of the United States Unai Ui Uruzuno Goldst, to the president, in regard to the intentions expressed by certain parties as independent parties." Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u33	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. We had a chance to hear so many things in the Sunday election campaign, and one of them from the Vox Party came out of his mouth and asked for illegally independent parties. A few days later this will or intention took a step in the congregation of Madrid, and as Vox himself presented to another, not only Vox, but Ciudadanus, and Poptular Party, and this is where the central Government is required to take measures for the co-ordination of independent parties. You yourself, in the full election campaign, called to show the democratic stability and the institutional stability, and there was also a summons from the EAJ to take the position of the rest of the parties. We want to reach that call today and you want to answer, because we think it's serious, because we believe in the state that such attitudes are shared and that self-criticism prevails in the Spanish state at the moment when such behaviors are general. And when we say these are universals, we mean that it is no longer the business of one or of another. And I want to make it clear, too, that all parties are not equal to us. Not all parties are equal, but this tendency is general, because in Spain it has partly obtained by the right, and partly by taking the middle term of politics towards the right of the balance. And we believe that in this, strictly speaking, PSOE himself has helped, too, in the course of years. Such attitudes, then, are more penetrating in a state which is in a state of complete evolution, and so is what we are now meaning to say. We hold that call you made, and now we hold it, drawn from the vortex of election, because we have a doubt. And, therefore, that may be the first question to ask you today: Is your call a question that takes place in the elections? Only what's good for the election campaign? Or do you think yourself that one must still continue to show such democratic and cultural stability? Or was it just an election gesture? So now we hold him, and we think that he must arrive here, even here. When it is said that democratic and institutional stability, we believe the President ought to seek for the protection of this Chamber in order to protect such a demand. Democratic firmness may be expressed in many ways. Even what we have seen on this Monday at the border of Behobians, this is a democratic firmness in front of such a position. But we believe that when we speak of the institutional and democratic, the President would have to step out of the vortex of election, and search for such an answer in this Chamber. For I might have started here after these expressions of yours, I might have begun here today to recite the significant and popular poem of Bergotte Brecht, which he used to say: "I wasn't either a Communist or a Jew or a workingman, but when they came to me it was too late." I could have started, too, in what you often do to us, to welcome us. We've been scalped, my own side, not coalition, it's been illegal. I could have said you'd be welcome, wouldn't I? As you often do, but I won't do that. I'm not doing that. We are here today to collect wills, and to find out whether there is really will to continue with such interpelations and to follow the necessity of doing so. Like I said, the problem is serious. In the Spanish state, though paradoxical, independence is no longer a elective political choice, or a political choice which is forbidden; at the present moment, in the Spanish State, we believe that independence is already a chance of democraticization, because this state constantly tends towards autoritism. In the Parliament of the United Kingdom, 11 delegates have presented yesterday a motive to exclude the European Union, because they believe that the Spanish State appeals to the foundation of the value of the European Union, namely democracy, justice, human rights... Because it is against such values that they demand the expression of Spain in Westminster. We think that takes a faithful picture of what's going on here. And now someone can say, "Yes, but the situation has changed because PSOE has won and there seems to be a government that will be progressist and left-handed." And we won't deny it. But at the same time, doubt is what we leave behind. And we say, let's do a good exercise. Let's do a good exercise. And we all think, surely, that the Jestric Party of the Eucans will not be expelled by the law. But does anyone dare to tell you at this moment that PSOE would not be ready to go away like a catinous independent force? Is anyone brave enough to say that? Because we've heard of Sánche in this election campaign, and he says before the election campaign, that if the article is to be applied, he'll apply it to 155. We've seen him strike a digital state during the election campaign. We have heard that he is ready to recover a law made against Aznards Ibarche, in which the referendums are disturbed, or those who make referendums are required to punish them with imprisonment. We've heard of Sánche about all that. Therefore, for us, the Social Party is at this moment no guarantee, and it must prove that if the Spanish State is really willing to lead it from the Democrats. We've seen a nine-point signed between Podemos and the Social Party. For the rest of the week, I've heard Mr Martínz together the principal secretary of Podemos on the radio and he couldn't explain what that ninth point meant. Much had to be pedaled by Mr Martínez in order to be able to give a moderately calm response to what they put forward in that ninth article. Then this is our situation. Then these points are not illegalization de facto de facto procés So our question is simple, we think our question is quite logical, ultra-right, fascism, if you want to avoid all these attitudes like illegalization, if you want to close the door to all of them, we believe that democratators have to start, that they close the way to self-critic attitudes. So, Mr. President, is there anything wrong with your going on like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u34	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urruzuno, during the election campaign, the representative of the Vox Party insisted that they should be excluded from the guilt of the Jalt Party, but not only on November 7th, on November 7th, by the Council of the member of Madrid, by the Popilian Party, and by Ciudadanos, a proposition of another kind, like the Vox Party, was admitted to leave the Spanish Government as separate parties. My concern is, therefore, not directed only to the Jestric Party. Unfortunately, the attitude that Vox has shown against the eucalypine eucalogy and for the settlement of the autonomical model is not new. Now, however, my uneasiness is still deeper: I care also for the example of François, who is a model of society, which I do not at all share in, because he is composed of a model of society. Vox is a multitude of proofs of the absence of democracy and of social justice shown by Vox, and his attitude is unacceptable. We are faced with a very serious threat, because against the will of the entire eupscal society they are ready to destroy everything that is built in the field of auto-bery. Therefore I repeat, not only that which belongs to the Jestric Party, but to any political party, but also to the Self-wealth. You have asked me exactly what I shall do to defend the right of all political possibilities, whilst we are opposed to this kind of activity. We shared four principles which I confirm today at the meeting of the ultimate control with the EH Collectors: the political solution of solidarity, of democratic liberty, of civil and political rights, which is founded on negative paths, and on the democratic principle of the will expressed by the citizens. To-day I give five new proposals to give the best and most effective answer to the threats which are increasing. Five. The first proposal is a firm wager for the living. The point is to value what we've built in our own country by auto-service, without disdain or contempt. What has been accomplished by generations of historical rights, euscal organizations, and constructions made in defence of our jurisdictions, has been obtained. We are what we are thanks to a history of constructive work from the generations that preceded us. In the face of what is intolerant and intolerable, what was built in Euskadi in terms of coexistence is a collective asset. We conquered a coexistence free of totalitarianism of the Franco dictatorship. We have achieved a coexistence free of ETA terrorism and violence. We are moving forward with a firm step towards a conciliatory coexistence and with a critical memory of the past. We have built a coexistence based on cohesion and social justice with the shared aspiration to achieve the maximum possible equality. In the face of populist and demagogic movements, the important thing is to continue investing in cohesion and social justice. And this has to remain our priority. This is therefore the first proposal: to value and strengthen the soil that sustains us. Co-existence and social cohesion. It is our first strength against any neo-totalitarianism. The second proposal is to defend democracy. To any threat of democratic evolution, it must be answered from the course of the engagement to principles, values, purposes, and democratic procedures. I know there will be difficulties, past and future, but my opinion is firm: we must share the decision of not going out of the way of democratic engagement. The third proposition is to confess multiplicity as active. Plurality is a positive asset, and dealing with neo-totalitarianism means keeping alive the strength of plural and immensely majority social wills that defend social pluralism. Despite any differences in feelings of national ownership or ideological orientation, we must remain united in the defence of human rights, pluralism and fundamental freedoms. This requires greater responsibility. Political and institutional action and discourse must promote a pedagogy of coexistence that affirms the pre-political value of the cohesion of our society around the fundamental democratic foundations. Nothing, therefore, must be considered as either made or once acquired. It is necessary to defend and promote fundamental rights and liberties, and to cultivate political culture. It is necessary to avoid every step or social rupture in which this fundamental unity is contested. First, then, of all things, to lay down what is built, and to strengthen the soil that supports us. Secondly, to answer further in the commitment to democratic values. Thirdly, To preserve the numerous consent of the wills of society, which are the majority of the common rights. And I add two more proposals. You mentioned Europe. The fourth proposal is directed to the side of Europe. The paper and future project of Europe are essential in response to all kinds of neototalitarianism. It is true that we all expect more from the European Union. It's true we can be critical and we can claim a more active policy in Europe. Nevertheless, it must be remarked that Europe is a part of the solution. Europe is the scope of values and ideals. This is not an absolute guarantee, but it is the center of union to be encouraged and defended. Europe is part of its origin, as well as of history, of the democratic response which is worthy of populism, autoritism, or petophores. And the fifth proposal is to guarantee unity. In Europe the health rent is called the attitude of unity in front of the right-hand end. We must maintain a social and political unity that will give effect to the weight of the democratic majority, a health cord against any ultra pretension of obtaining political or electoral advantage through the use of populist messages. We must avoid attitudes that allow Vox to be homologated and whitewashed by involving him in institutional arrangements or by making his proposals viable. There is no doubt that this understanding attitude, which in Europe is called "red carpet on the far right", has led to a very expensive bill in the past elections. In Europe, in the state and in Euskadi, all ideas in democracy and without resorting to violence can be defended. In fact, Vox intends to illegalize those who defend ideas outside the Constitution, but in reality they themselves are defending something that is also outside the Constitution, such as the illegalization of a political party with an accredited democratic tradition or, more so, the suppression of autonomy. In democracy all ideas can be defended freely and peacefully. This is the essence of democracy. To conclude and answer your question. I am convinced that we can share and accept the five proposals which I have proposed in this legislature. And in this sense, I will cultivate it by seeking an institutional stability. This agreement of a mouth would be the best, political, and social answer to the neo totalitarian plans which lie in the Spanish State, and to oppose these plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u37	Yeah. It has recently been removed from the Valley of fallen the dictator of Francisco Franco, and I don't know if he has been willing to represent it as a symbol of memory or, I don't know, anti-fascism, the fact is that he has been brought out of that pit with state honors. And this is all I want to say: you say all your speech about Vox, and that's what I don't share. The problem is not Vox. The problem is not Vox. And I won't put a sigla on the table of different parties. The problem is, what has been called the transition of 40 years ago, or what has been called an operation of 78 years ago, was made in a manner by which the Spaniards of the State are found in this place. And we all know that. So it's not Vox. Vox can sometimes stand on the beach, make a few requests like that. But what I have already told you was added to this demand to the Popular Party and to Ciudad. It's not a question of Vox, Popular Party, and Ciudadnos. And I've said something else before: nor Sánchez himself seems to be in a state of discord in these matters, seeing in this war of election, which he makes up for himself, the law of refundation, I repeat, against Aznard, against Ibarchechechecheche, a law invented against the refendum which he was to make, has been in need of recovering a law drawn from the joke, Mr Pedro Sánchez. Then we believe that all this well draws the political situation of the Spanish State, and at the present moment there are two alternatives, although the government is what it will be, whether it be PSOE-Podes or, God knows, there are two alternatives of government: or else the democratists of the road continue to penetrate in this direction, or actually extend their course. And we believe that there is much greater opportunity here in Catalonia than in the Spanish State. And we must allow ourselves to be elected by political choices from democratic methods. You said, "que en democracia todas las iis deberín de ser." "; deberín de ser, but they are not. But they're not. They are not in the Spanish state, or the Spanish State is not a democracy. It could be that too. And we think we're in that thesis. At this moment they will probably be on the committee of the authorities of self-interest, as always in the exercise of a democratic principle and of the principle of legality. It would be a mistake to examine these principles singly. If this is done, then always, the principle of legality will always prevail. We believe that we must give it to a whole system of forms in which all these principles are combined, grafted into, and given a general resultivation. And we believe that, instead of looking at Spain, this is an exercise to be done here. We may agree with the five axes you have pointed out, but those axes require specific implementations of a short period. They can't be the axes on which they stand. And that's how our session today came: Is there any intention of answering such questions in the legislature with another answer? And that's where we leave this interpelation today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Uruzuno, at my first performance, you've told me I've only spoken about Voxi at this second round of yours. Vox, I think, may be somewhat intelligible to the consideration of the law of parties, and even to the consideration of the Constitution. However, you ask me what we can do here in the legislature, and I think I have to remark some of the things, in order to determine them. For here it is not Ciudadans, nor Vox, in this Assembly of Laws; and here also the European Popular sects have been censured by Vox. So I think we must take it with all due respect, too, where every one has said. You've talked a lot about Sánchezi, and about the Spanish Government or the Popular Party, Sánchez, who thought he'd be president of Sánchez, what he said in the campaign and so on... I don't know, even EH, was willing to vote for free president Sánchez, because from elections, EH Collect will also have a team of legislatures in the Congress of the Spanish Congress. I believe that even this may be the case with which some enterprise ought to be directed from the Congress of Spain. In any case, Mr Urruzuno, in my first speech I have tried to explain to you that in view of the influence of neo-totalitarianism in the State, in plural, in Europe or in the world, it is essential to work a democratic pedagogy for understanding, evaluating, defending and promoting democratic values, fundamental rights and freedoms. And all this on the basis of balance or social cohesion and social justice. And I have put forward five proposals that I consider to be basic to work also in this parliamentary area: firstly, to value and strengthen what has been built, the soil that supports us; secondly, to respond always by deepening the commitment to democratic values; thirdly, to take care of the plural agreement of the majority social wills around fundamental rights; fourthly, to commit to Europe as an area of unity that must be promoted and defended, and that must promote and defend democratic values; and fifthly, to maintain a social and political unity, also European, that will give effect to the weight of its democratic majority in defence of freedom and fundamental rights. But I will add one last thought, Mr. Urruzuno: We have to act carefully and act with serious maxims or radicalism. Experience shows us that every time an extreme attitude begins in a corner, in the other corner there is an extreme attitude. The alternative, Mr. Urruzuno, is to read reality with care and perspective. Simple thought can be very effective in a short time, but destructive in a mid-term period. Here, in this legislature, we are allowed to take several steps which may be decisive and which are related to you. You mentioned a group of self-generacy, a democratic principle, the principle of legality... Well, I'm giving you an example of memory and co-operation. The fact that we come to an agreement on this business would be a great influence on the subject today, Mr. Urzuno. It requires responsibility and perspective too. He asks, and the question is not only what we others do, but what you or all of us do or cease to do, or what we say. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to promote a lifestyle model and we're gonna continue to promote it. Democratic principles, human rights, variety, and eupscal auto-organization have been encouraged and will continue to promote them. To respond positively to the five questions, or, rather, five proposals I propose, means taking a step forward in the social rejection of intolerance and in the irony of the defence of human rights. They are for me the two sides of the same democratic currency, and I am going to commit myself to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interreciation, Eukene Arana Varas, together with the members of the Podemos, of the President, of the memory of violence, of confession, and of observation." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u41	Yeah. Good morning, ma'am, chief of staff, chief of departments, Mr. President. The first thing I would like to say is that I am glad that at last the macho violence is central in this Parliament. This was impossible for nothing in a full control, for the Government itself to even wonder about these issues. And what pleases me most, forgive me, and what pleases Elkarrekin We can know that we have been the engine and part of this change. We are approaching 25 November, an international day against violence against women, and from Elkarrekin We can renew and redouble our firm commitment to the rights and freedoms of all women, girls, adolescents, young people and adults...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u42	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u43	...and we continue to work with concrete proposals and initiatives, with agreements and new debates for a society free of all kinds of Machist violence. We are convinced that the road to a fairer, more egalitarian society, to building and defending inclusive coexistence, based on the defence of human rights and peace, is absolutely essential for us to face up to machist violence with various measures and policies. Prevention, care, protection, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition are all essential for a comprehensive policy in this area. However, we believe that more emphasis has been placed on some than on others, and so far memory, recognition and reparation have somehow been left behind. Machist violence is a systematic and structural violation of human rights. That is to say, organized and established within the macho social structure and, therefore, although starred on numerous occasions by specific people, in what is called private relations, their explanation has to do with society. It is about violence against women, those who suffer from the mere fact of being women, every day and in all areas of their life. This type of violence is not limited to a particular culture, religion, region or socio-economic level, nor to specific groups of women within a society. Although the situation of some women is quite different, it unites them with a situation of subordination with respect to men, which acquires very different manifestations. It is a constant violation of human rights, which undermines freedom, coexistence and has very serious consequences for women, their families and society as a whole. In Euskadi, throughout 2018, Ertzaintza registered 2,989 women assaulted by her partner or ex-partner, another 870 women victims of violence by some other man in her family, and 385 women who suffered sexual violence outside the family. A total of 4,244 women victims of violence against women in the one-year period. In 2017 there were 224 fewer women. In the last 10 years, in addition, 30 women have been murdered in Euskadi. And the number of complaints is increasing, because women continue to gain rights and freedoms. They're losing their fear of reporting violence. In addition, the following are being organized: plural, diverse, older, adolescent, trans, lesbian, racialized, domestic workers, self-employed or insecure employees, pensioners, students. And they in their organization find and weave alliances in a feminist movement that amplifies their voices and demands. They're taking qualitative leaps. They advance and overflow traditional forms. They are paving the way for a more just society, a society that puts lives at the centre and is free from violence. Society as a whole is becoming increasingly sensitive and aware. More and more women are taking the step to denounce. However, we have data that gives us a picture of the situation of those women who can and choose to report in police stations or courts. We still have a lot of work to do to get a real knowledge of the phenomenon. It is estimated that around 48 per cent of women who suffer domestic violence have never attended the police, the court or any help service, and, despite the black figure, complaints continue to increase in what we are going through this year. In 2019 we have 100 more complaints regarding the same period of 2018. With these data in hand that, I insist, do not reflect the whole reality, every day more than 15 women are assaulted in Euskadi. In short, it is clearly a constant and systematic violation of the human rights of half the population. As this is a violation of human rights, we believe that it is essential and necessary to talk about memory, recognition and reparation; because policies in the area of historical collective memory, in the area of recognition and reparation, place human rights violations as a political and structural issue in the collective imagination. Great progress has been made, yes, towards the recognition of Machist violence as a violation of rights. But so far, however, the victims have not been placed in the collective or historical memory, despite the potential of the latter to transform. There is still a great field of work to be explored and advanced in policies of memory, recognition and reparation in this area. The reparation, recognition and memory of women who have suffered sexist violence must be part of comprehensive care, and they are, in our view, a fundamental tool for spreading a culture of human rights and building a society free from sexist violence. For this reason, Mr Lehendakari, I would like to ask you this question: What are the policies in the field of memory, recognition and reparation that the Basque Government has planned for victims of machist violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, I am neither adanist nor I believe that I do not see, I do not believe that with me the world or political life begins, nor the action in relation to macho violence or against macho violence. In any case, what are the policies in the field of memory, recognition and reparation that the Basque Government has planned for victims of sexist violence? The process of intervention with victims of macho violence must contemplate the principle of reparation in all its phases, as you rightly pointed out. This is reflected in all international standards and recommendations. In this regard, the Basque Government has reaffirmed its commitment to take action at all levels of intervention – prevention, detection, care, protection, coordination and justice – emphasizing the importance of reparation for victims and survivors. In the case of victims of macho violence, it is understood that the purpose is to substantially improve the living conditions of the victims from the reparation of their violated rights and the recovery of the damage caused. The empowerment process that strengthens its capacity and autonomy to overcome the situation of violence must also be supported. From the Basque Government, in coordination with the outlaws, the municipalities and Eudel, the Association of Basque Municipalities, we are promoting the principle of reparation through various actions and instruments. In this regard, the VII Plan for Equality of Women and Men has for the first time incorporated reparation for the damage. In particular, the strategic objective is to ensure the right to individual reparation for harm so that women can complete their exit from violence. The right to collective redress is also recognized, avoiding revictimization. It is understood as a way of demonstrating institutional commitment to violence against women and respect for all survivors. In the same vein, one of the objectives of the VII Plan is to increase public resources so as to contribute to the complete and complete recovery of survivors and their children, affirming and recognizing their diversity and the impact of violence on each of them. In the same way, the express objective of increasing the number of public actions manifesting the rejection of violence against women, respect for survivors, giving them a voice to ensure the dissemination of the truth and the social recognition of what they have experienced. In the same vein, it is intended to explore ways to ensure that the damage is not repeated, with the attention paid to the cause, so that all women are guaranteed a life free of violence. Finally, the plan sets out the objective of recognizing the right to financial compensation provided, which considers all the impacts of violence on survivors. The objectives set out in the equality plan are reflected in the commitments made by the Basque Government and all public institutions. Thus, it is necessary to highlight the example of Berdinsarea, which we develop in collaboration with Eudel, the Association of Basque Municipalities, and which has launched the Network of Basque Municipalities for Equality. Through this initiative, the Guide to Local Actions for the Reparation of Victims of Machist Violence has been developed. This guide offers or favours the possibility for local authorities to implement and implement the right of reparation for victims of male-based violence within the area of municipal competence. The guide also proposes to provide more technical resources to municipalities and communes in order to improve the situation of victims by applying the principle of reparation. This principle involves placing the rights of victims at the centre of the entire care process, listening to and responding to their needs and demands. This guide opens a new path and its general objective is to enable Basque municipalities to know, discuss and implement the principle of reparation to victims of male violence in their prevention and intervention policies. In this way, the field of action is extended to the attention of victims of all forms of macho violence in all areas in which it is manifested. In addition to the coordinated action with the municipalities, I think it is important to also highlight coordination with the outside parliaments with a view to the provision of specialized care. A basic principle in any victim recovery process is psychological support throughout the process, starting from the very moment of detection. In response to this principle, Decree 185/2015, which regulates the community's social services portfolio, stipulates that it is the responsibility of members of parliament to provide specialized care to victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault against women. Thus, social services for psychological care cater to victims of macho violence who wish to initiate psychological treatment through individualized and personalized care. Psychological services address the psycho-emotional needs arising from macho violence, regardless of the area in which it occurred, and these services also cater to the sons and daughters of women. This service offered its attention and support to 3,000 women last year. Recognition of economic rights and compensation for victims is also a reality. The VII Equality Plan, to which I have referred on several occasions, sets out the objective of recognizing the right to financial compensation provided, in which all the impacts of violence on survivors are considered. On the other hand, the Income Guarantee Network provides a monthly financial benefit to meet the basic needs of individuals and families who do not have sufficient resources. In cases where a person who is a victim of gender-based violence requests income guarantee income, Lanbide makes available to him/her specialized personnel. Through this route, Lanbide served 850 women victims last year, allocating an investment of 6 and a half million euros for this purpose. In addition, we have the single-paying economic benefit for women victims of gender-based violence. This is a one-paying economic aid, targeted at women victims of gender-based violence who have particular difficulty in obtaining employment. Last year a total of 170 women with 230 daughters and children in charge of them received this financial benefit, which amounted to an investment of more than EUR 1 million by the Basque Government. In addition, the Department of Labour and Justice is in the process of re-education of Gakoa abusers, aimed at the psychological care and re-education of abusers by court order. We are also working, through the Jabetuz programme, on the training of professionals who care for women who face violence, so that their intervention will put women's empowerment at the centre. This relationship that I have mentioned to you, Mrs Arana, is part of the compendium of actions and initiatives carried out by the Government and all the Basque institutions, not only the Basque Government, in order to respond to the recognition and reparation that victims of machista violence deserve. And we're going to remain committed to equality. Next week, the Basque Government will participate in the Women Leaders Global Forum of Reikiavik, where we will also present the gender-based budgeting model that we have launched this year. In addition, we will advance the commitment that 15% of our budget in 2021 contemplates the gender perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, last Wednesday, we women in this Parliament were at the UPV in Donostia, at a table organized by the Euskadi Youth Council, to talk about politics, how we go through each one, as a woman, being a woman and a politician. A great debate that should be organized more and that would be very good for many men to be heard. I'm not saying it wrong, I'm saying it really, because we said very important things there and we were very much in agreement on a lot of things. But I at that table said that I don't settle, that I think it's time for women not to settle for what's there. And I think it's a time to be brave, creative, to listen, to execute, to build bridges and to build together. General female plural. You know I'm an incident with that. But, for our part, we are going to continue to investigate, listening to the feminist movement, analyzing the policies that this Government is implementing and saying that we are not going to comply with what there is, because, as I said in my first intervention, I repeat, there have been indisputable advances in the recognition of Machist violence as a violation of human rights, that such plans are collected is a very important advance, because only 40 years ago they were naturalized, a great deal was considered a family problem and that was to be solved in this area, there was no legislation, women were not recognized as a political subject... But we must redouble our efforts, we must continue to consolidate our achievements and we must also continue to move forward with new measures and policies in that change; because in the face of undisputed progress in different parts of Europe and around here, these emerging sectors, which are contrary to equality, the rights and the freedom of women, which are denying the existence of inequalities and disseminating false and manipulated information about the sexist violence suffered by women, because they must be combated in some way. And we believe that memory and recognition policies are a fundamental tool to spread the truth and a culture that shields the rights of human beings, women and build a society free from machist violence. The number of public actions expressing rejection of violence against women, respect for survivors must be increased, giving them a voice to ensure the dissemination of the truth and the social recognition of what they have experienced, avoiding revictimization. And a couple of years ago, in a debate organized by Pikara and FeministAlde! on this issue, it was said: "Silence, not naming the victims, invisibles the human effects of this violence, gives social impunity to the aggressors and does not allow the reconstruction of life stories or the very memory or of the daughters and children of women who have suffered violence. It is essential to express our solidarity and social responsibility for what has happened." And indeed, it is quite certain that any of the people we are here, because it will be difficult for us to name each of the women who have been murdered in the last ten years. It will cost us and it will be difficult to remember anything about their lives or the circumstances in which they were killed. And that is the result, to a large extent, of the lack of policies on memory and recognition. In some municipalities, as you have rightly commented, actions have been promoted in this regard and we welcome it. But we have to recognize, that they are rather punctual, fragmented, short-range and unjointed actions. There is a great deal of room for improvement until we can say that in Euskadi we have a policy of memory, recognition and reparation with the victims and survivors of Machist violence. And I'm just going to put just a few examples that we think can be good to boost memory. For example, the fundamental goal of memory policies is to fight oblivion. This requires investigating, keeping objects and documents in archives and ensuring knowledge of the past through an appropriate dissemination policy. Another example is to promote acts of recognition and public commemorations with symbolic reparation. Education is another key area for the transmission of memory. And in this regard, there is also a wide margin to promote new actions in which victims and survivors of Machist violence can give their testimonies. It is an activity with great educational potential. It is also important that memory leaves traces in our daily lives and materializes with concrete objects, such as monuments, the names of the streets, etc. Mr Urkullu, the policies of memory and recognition are built by remembering the past, as you well know, but above all it must be stressed that they are fundamentally oriented towards the future. To be a bridge between past, present and future; remember not to repeat. They are a call to build a future without violence against women. And from Elkarrekin We understand that it is necessary to begin to explore or deepen coordinated and comprehensive public policies on the memory, recognition and reparation of victims of machist violence. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Arana, I am grateful for your mention of the fact that we in Euskadi have made a great deal of progress, and I agree that we must not settle and, therefore, that we must continue to work for much further progress. In parallel with memory, to which you have also mentioned, memory, recognition and reparation, on which you have also set certain examples, it is also necessary to continue to deepen the work of social awareness, to which you have also referred. And in this line, the equality plan aims to increase the number of public actions expressing rejection of violence against women and respect for survivors, and aims to give voice to the victims themselves to ensure the dissemination of the truth and promote the social recognition of the lived, avoiding revictimization. An example of the process leading to the reparation of raped women and also in relation to the testimonies to which you mentioned, is the one developed by Emakunde to make the film Volar Emakunde, after a previous two-year work with these women, promoted the creation of this film, with the aim that his testimonies could become engines of change. It is a matter of understanding in depth how these facts affect women themselves and their environment, and what consequences they derive from them. The movie I'm making mention of, Flying I conclude, Mrs Arana, by referring to the fact that the memory, recognition and reparation of victims of sexist violence is also reflected in the amendment of the Law on Equality of Women and Men. Thus, memory affirms the need to recognize and guarantee the right to reparation for victims in line with the Istanbul Convention. The law recognizes the right of victims to reparation and imposes an obligation to take measures to ensure that victims and survivors receive proportionate compensation, recognition of the truth, guarantees of non-repetition of violent acts and full recovery through appropriate public care resources. The commitment of the Basque Government, Mrs Arana, is that, once the law is passed, the manner in which it will implement this mandate will be developed by regulation. There is no doubt that the new regulatory proposal will provide us with an opportunity to further deepen and respond adequately to this enormous social challenge that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Carmulus Barrio Barroja, a member of the Populale Group, was made to the president about the cults of the Basque Autonomy community or the bill of law on the centres and the religious scale." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u51	Thank you, President. Good morning, lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. With a explanatory statement of 14 paragraphs, with 14 articles, with six final, transitional, additional provisions... The Basque Government sent to Parliament in the summer the draft law on places and centres of worship and religious diversity in the Basque Autonomous Community. Its parliamentary procedure is still pending, but we have some doubts about its normative content. That is why we have asked this question to the lehendakari, logically Lehendakaritza is where this bill was brought to us, it is part of his responsibility and we ask the lehendakari to answer a question in relation to the bill of that department of his. What is the normative value of the draft law on centres and places of worship and religious diversity in the Basque Autonomous Community to our legal system? That is to say, what does this bill bring about with regard to the opening and functioning of centres and places of worship, and what does the law bring with regard to the interreligious council of Euskadi that it creates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u52	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, Basque society, like other developed European societies, presents today an overview of growing religious plurality. The purpose of the bill is to protect coexistence, diversity and the right to religious freedom in our society. And the exercise of this freedom finds its public expression in the possibility of having normalized spaces and centers of worship that respond to religious diversity. The normative value for which you ask me, the normative value of this bill, is based on four guarantees: the exercise of religious freedom and of worship; equal treatment between various communities and religious denominations; optimal conditions of safety and health in the opening and use of places and centres of worship; and the right to have places for the exercise of religious freedom and of worship on an equal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u55	Gracias, president. Gracias, president. What is happening, lehendakari, is that this bill does not regulate anything as it has been introduced. Everything you have told us is already regulated by other regulations. In other bills we may or may not disagree with how something is regulated, have an idea of how any issue is regulated, share it or not share it. But this bill, lehendakari, does not regulate anything: either everything is regulated by other rules, or you have to name it a posteriori by regulation. If this law has two parts, the opening and functioning of the centers and places of worship, and the other the creation of the interreligious council, the first depends on a whole set of municipal, urban, environmental protection and Organic Law on Religious Freedom, which are already in operation, which are already normally applied in daily practice, in relation to the opening, in relation to the functioning of the centers of worship. And, logically, of all the centers of worship. That is, and the municipalities and the municipal regulations have already shown us how to carry out all these openings and all that operation, all that control of health, normally. In other words, the health check that you want will also be regulated by regulation, in any case. That is to say, what this law does is to reduce, from the legal nature to, fundamentally, being regulatory. And, on the other hand, that is, in the second, in the interreligious council of Euskadi, the only thing that truly decides this law is that you are going to appoint the interreligious council of Euskadi, because it also depends on your department. The composition, the law says so, the composition, functions and rules of operation of the interreligious council of Euskadi must be approved by regulation. That is, the Government's decree, that is, your decree, because you are, as it were, the adviser to that Department, since it is up to you. In other words, this bill creates but does not regulate the Basque interreligious council. And that's what you should do. That's not right for us. The bill on centres and places of worship and religious diversity of the Basque Autonomous Community is not in itself a normative bill; it is a pose, it is an aesthetic, it is a number more on the bill list. It is an announcement that you are going to appoint an interreligious council of Euskadi and that the municipalities will continue to do what they were doing normally. Tell me, are you really interested in this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u56	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, who doesn't seem to be interested in you. In any case, I urge you, the draft law regulates the framework for the opening and use of religious centres, avoiding any form of discrimination between different religious denominations. It also establishes, also on a normative basis, yes, the creation of the Basque Interreligious Council as a framework for dialogue for coexistence, and the Council will have advisory and reporting functions in the initiatives and decisions of the Basque institutions. All democratic legal systems, as well as international human rights law, recognize the right of persons to freedom of religion and religion as a fundamental right, with maximum legal guarantees, and this law constitutes a normative strengthening of guarantees in the exercise of that fundamental right. The bill provides a coherent, viable and fully consistent regulatory response to an emerging social reality in accordance with the principles of the current law. And the bill determines that, yes, the municipal planning plans that exist, or those that may exist, include reserves for religious equipment. It also lays down the requirements relating to urban licensing, communication of opening and other authorizations of activity, technical and material conditions of compliance, as well as measures against non-compliance with the conditions of opening. In the same way, Mr Barrio, the use of public facilities or spaces for religious purposes is regulated, and it provides for the possibility for municipalities to designate places, premises or buildings for public use for multi-denominational purposes. Mr Barrio, you know that this bill, this initiative already comes from the previous legislature, and everything that is struggling to develop it. We are in the middle of a parliamentary process on this bill. You therefore have occasion, to the extent that you have an interest in this bill, in the existence of this bill, to promote initiatives in the form of amendments that you consider relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpology, made by the members of the board of the Ostero Galiridas to the head of the economics and the lower classes, to fulfill the objectives of the Myrgetic Laws." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u59	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. As you can see, I'm not Mr. Otero, I'm Mrs. Pindo. This law was agreed on the 21st of February 2019, as we all know, with PP's Abstence, and the consent of all the other groups. This law was in fact written in the preceding law, and entered the legislature in the year of 2019. The law, as it was introduced into the legislature, was not acceptable to the Combat, and therefore we presented to the law a total amendment. He had plenty of salt from the EH Collectation point, but the chief of them was the lack of economic growth for what the law commanded, and you know that, Mrs. Tapia, too. In our opinion, if we didn't solve this, the law was absolutely indisputable. Eudel, too, in fact, in the phase of the law's information, said the same thing. Considering that the economic memory of the law had a prediction of 541 million dollars' investments, and that more than 60% of the investments were left to the municipal administration, we all know that it would be useless to accept the law without foreseeing it. The law, therefore, had no meaning without a standard. Thus, in the phase of the amendments, there was the formation of a financial instrument, such as a cargo of funds, which, with the intention and ability of giving money to the townships, would return by means of the savings which they had made for the most energetic efficiency projects. The amendment was negotiated. Mr. Oster, of course, bargained, and thus it was written in the body of the law: "Disposiciion acinal quinta. Herramianta financia de apoyo a las instiencynes locale." Eta hitzez hitz irakuriko dut: "In the budget year immediately following the entry into force of the law, the Basque Government, in order to facilitate the investments to be made in its implementation, will be a financial tool for supporting local entities. The financial instrument shall be constituted with a minimum amount of EUR 100 million. The purpose of this tool will be to facilitate investments arising from this law in the field of local government. The tool will be reconstituted by means of the return of the aid received by the administrations that receive prior funding, depending on the returns derived from energy savings". This was not the only aim obtained during the negotiation of the law. From our contributions, among others, the ambition of the law increased, and the last received texts were also brought into harmony with the direction of the European Union. For example, a 32% of the power consumption of the administration satisfaction of self-recognition, 2030 years. But these new goals increase the original investigative effort. We see, therefore, that the fifth regulation in addition is still more necessary in financial fuel. The result of our contributions was the impulse to form a new sector plan, in order to make a rational and ordered exploitation of our most energetic sources. The law, therefore, was much improved by the contributions, and then we accepted it. We thought this accepted him into an open time of trust. Thus, in the next month, we propose to make an agreement in the energy area, and in the course of March, in fact, there is a band of scholars working, if there is difficulty, but there is a band of experts working on it. When the fun put in the budget bill, you know, we were looking for that minimum 100 million remitt, but we didn't find it at all. We believe that the government has had enough time to invest in this budget project, because the law was admitted in February, and the budget has been introduced in November or October. But it didn't seem like that. Guretzat legean denean "in the budget year immediately after the entry into force of the law", argi generatzen zen aurrekontu honetan agertu beharko zela zerabait gutxienez, baisa ez da horrela izan. When you brought up the budgets in your department, Mrs. Tapia, Monday, Mr. Oster, asked you about this, I heard your response, and you said you were working, that Finn's subject is in the Basque Institute and that, in fact, there was trouble not to be described as a municipal debt. But these are words for us, Madam Chief. Words, not money, and no other commitments. The explanation has not been enough for us, Madam Chief physician. Words, nothing but words, as I said, without specifications, which is much worse, without anything in the budget. And in energy, the confidence which has been acquired in complicated subjects, leaves us, in our opinion, highly affected by this mistake. Not only because there's no money in the budget, because there's not even a bit of communication around the subject. We don't understand your standard of government on this subject, and I'll tell you we don't share it. That's why the question we're asking you is very simple, and you know there was this question, and a question you expected from Monday. How are you going to do it when you can do it to fulfill the Enforcency Act, if you haven't been able to put the necessary money into the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. My representative, Mrs. Tapia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u61	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs. Pinedo, though another person makes this interpelation, quotes several themes at the entry of the interpelation, and quotes the statement we made on July 30th. We mentioned this declaration, we declared, in some measure, a climate emigration, and it was also mentioned that we would set several subjects in motion; Plans, projects... and there are also legal projects involved. But the Book of Emensurgentism, as you have mentioned, was admitted in February, and it must be mentioned that you were two teams who had really been able to improve this law and to add things to it. The first was the Podemos team together, and I have to thank him for his position, and then, as you gathered, you came and, well, the law was improved, and so many things went in, independently of the economic instrument. Of course this law agrees with this proclamation; that is to say, it is not one that has already been made, or that the other has been made later, but that it will continue to work, and will be made up of synergis. So there will be no incoherence but the work that will be done together. It is eight months since the law has been put into action, and it is an important law, which has secrets and commitments, and in some measure there is not a single group of individuals here, in this legislature, but is opposed to it, on the contrary. From that point forward another compact, as you have mentioned, started with difficulty, but it is going on, and I must tell you at this moment, and the group knows that it is a technical support. On the one hand, it will be a technician or a technical resistance to all the necessary reports and all the necessary information in order to put and work in it; and besides, it is now working on another side, but it is also a process of sensitation and participation, as was demanded. These things are therefore made, not by the Lawes themselves; but also by the Covenants granted in this Common-wealth. It's also a little history, but from where this law comes from, because from the very beginning we set a decree in order to make it more and more supportable in every building in the government, and from that point a decree started and the law was proposed. But, too, it must be said that the antibiential strategy is to be spoken of. There's another step, too, to fulfill the law of spiritual suffering, and I think it's not only important, but, in a way, what's going to be our commitment, and that fun has decided in the council that all his energy is green, all the energy that is bought and all the energy that is used for it is green. So I think that there's our commitment to that, too, because we can't yet create that green energy ourselves, but at least we're making that bet in buying it. What else? In recent years we are certainly developing an important dynamic in terms of complying with that law which also has, in addition to the financial tool that you have focused on, also has another set of elements that need to be put into operation, such as subsidies and the implementation of policies that allow the whole of public and private society to get into operation and to use more and more two important elements: on the one hand, that of getting the energy we consume, and we generate, if possible, to be green, but that we also work for energy efficiency itself and for less energy consumption. What measures have been implemented and continue to be implemented? On the one hand, we have to – and the law says so – publicise on the part of Basque public administrations, information on energy sustainability, training plans and action for different techniques to increase energy saving and efficiency. What else? Post-law regulatory development. On the one hand, a decree that has to deal with all the actions that appear in the law, and the implementation of a sectoral territorial plan of renewable energies to which you referred. This PTS is already under way in the drafting of the sectoral territorial plan, which does not refer only to wind power, which is previously in operation, but replaces it and extends it to other types of renewable energy. At the moment, I insist, in writing. Therefore, we will extend the scope beyond what was the previous PTS, which was a purely windy PTS. And in addition, we need to put in place – and we are working on this – a regulatory decree on the rights and conditions of access and use of energy billing data by users that allow for the implementation of different particular policies that can be implemented by private users. That's what the law says, too. As far as subsidy lines are concerned, I think I also presented them last Monday, although the presentation was quite quick. Well, we're going to focus from the Basque Energy Agency on investment aid in transport and efficient mobility, on a Renovation Plan of vehicles – which I think is the only thing that the media collected, but we're going to continue with that Renovation Plan – and the MOVES programme, which especially encourages efficient mobility considered electric or hybrid, which can be connected together with all the recharge points necessary for its development. There are also energy and solar thermal efficiency aids for the whole tertiary sector and for the industrial sector, as well as for local public administrations. Then there is also a portion of the subsidy line. And we are going to take advantage of different elements in biomass, geothermal energy, all kinds of renewable energies, of course wind and photovoltaics, marine energies with support for different types of actions in demonstration and validation of new industrial elements, and we continue with energy efficiency aids, above all, aimed at SMEs, but at the whole of the industrial fabric, because we have observed that, of course, the path taken over the last few years has yielded good results. And finally, we also have the financial tool you were referring to. A financial tool that, last Monday, commented, has its difficulty since the level of indebtedness that can be allowed the municipalities and, above all, the small municipalities, has very important limitations. However, we are working, for what? Those 100 million that we were referring to, which are not in one exercise, but are in several exercises, since, as I said on Monday, the implementation of these policies is not going to take place at a single moment, but it is going to be an element that will develop over time. A financial tool that is going to be equipped, at least at the moment in this we are working, with a management mix, with a part that is subsidized and a part that allows us to work with a financing formula as you said, in the style of a reintegrated advance with a few years of deficiency that allows us to pay the loan that has been given with the own resources obtained as a result of the savings for energy efficiency that has been put into operation. Where are the resources? I was telling her the other day. The resources are at the Basque Institute of Finance and there is even a subsidy part and it could be used even in another way, which was in the Basque Energy Agency, and you will remember perfectly that it was referring, in the second paragraph, to 20.3 million euros, if I remember correctly, of which 17 appeared as "energy efficiency". In any case, we still have to work with Eudel to analyze if that is really the necessary tool, if it meets all its objectives and if it is, of course, it will be working for the first quarter of next 2020. And, of course, as is the case with this department, the task of monitoring, inspection and monitoring compliance with the obligations of the law is also our concern. Therefore, we are developing each and every one of the elements contemplated in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mrs. Tapia, for your profound explanation about the issues your department will do. It's good to explain it at least in the last two minutes of financial burns. Begiratu, exaten didazu 100 million say hainbat ekitaldirentzat, bathe zuk on bathe hobetu dakizu legean exaten duela "will constitute with a minimum amount of 100 million". I can understand the interpretations that can be made of the legal provisions, but when you say "it will be constituted with a minimum amount of 100 million", you are talking about the time of the constitution of the tool and you are talking to me already that the 100 million will be for several exercises. Therefore, the first question I have not just seen. The management mix, I am not going to question the issue of the grant, of reintegrated advance financing, because it is true, I am aware of what is the limitation of the municipalities regarding their debt capacity, that that is another issue that gives for a long time, and it is my topic, but for another day, as I would say that. But the reality is that they are words, and they are words that come from questions first from Mr Otero and now from me; that is, these questions you know perfectly well that they were agreed in a negotiation of a law between EH Bildu and the rest of the groups, and obviously the government was present and I do not think anything would have happened if you had raised the phone and called Mr Otero and informed him that to do what you had agreed and that Mr Otero expressly told them that it was vital, he was encountering legal difficulties, financial difficulties or what he considered appropriate. I don't think anything would have happened. That's why I was telling you in my first speech that there's a problem, there's a problem in your governance model, or there's a problem with the trusts that are going to work, because we're being told over and over again that we need to work on trusts. I believe and you know what Mr Otero is like, and I know in good ink that those trusts were worked out, but the least would have been that after you have done, and you know it, you try to know what was going on with this story, to have to find out, after you have put the inquiry, through corridors of the first information and I see that they are going through them live, live and live. And that's one of the problems, Mrs. Tapia. I am not going to question the 17 million that you tell me, apparently as you did not like what came out of your commission Monday, because they only talked about the Renovation Plan, because today you have used those millions to sell the goodness of your department, which is well brought. But that too is one of the issues that we can see a posteriori, that you sell the goodness of your department within a few months, as a money for municipalities to do issues related to renewable energies, and that is not an issue that is today. And when I tell you that they're not in the Budgets it's not just that they're not the $100 million as a nominative item that puts "for law enforcement"; no, that's not it. I, of course, have observed them in the budgets of the Basque Institute of Finance; there is a specific item, in which I will not begin to enter, which could be where you locate this issue, but it obviously does not reach 100 million or so. But the point is, it's not in the letter either. It is that in the memory of the Basque Institute of Finance, where all the issues that are going to be carried out in the exercise, of aid to SMEs, of guarantees to companies... There is no mention of a line of work at any time, even in the future. If you tell me in three months, okay, but in the future, in memory, minimum in the memory of the Institute of Finance, it would have to appear. At least he should have appeared at the Institute of Finance, beyond what appears in his department, which also, by the way, I have read, and there may be a phrase that even one reading between lines can understand that there is something. But there's nothing concrete, Counselor. And you were talking to me about other issues, like the Territorial Sectoral Energy Plan, so there's a lot to talk about. You know perfectly well that this was also an issue introduced by Mr Otero in that negotiation. But you also know that we had to find out at a congress in Iberdrola that there was an agreement on wind between your government and Iberdrola, and we didn't find out here. And since I only have 10 seconds left, I'm sure Mr. Otero is going to forgive me, I'm not going to report it. But, I insist, there must have been something in this budget, Madam Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u65	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. First of all, Mrs. Pinedo, this law is much more than that instrument, and it seems as if we were going up the instrument at this moment, and I explained to you what we are doing to fulfill the whole law, and the instrument is part of it. Anyway, you mention it over and over, it seems as if Mr. Oterero made the law and made his report. It's true that he's done his work, but we have to say in the financial instrument, and in this case Mr. Becerra is also there, that he's had a great share in it, and that they've both got their reports and interesting reports. Gero, zuk aipatzea 100 milioiak, esaten denean "will have the 100 million euros available", ederki dakizu gauza hori aera daitekeela tresna, exertzizizio desberdinetan, urte deberdinetan eginda. But today, when we don't yet know what part will be subliteration and what preparations are to be, monto. There's a money in the Basque Organization of energy this year, live, and the Finnin's in the Basque Institute, and besides, there's a lot of money passing from our department, and you were there and there's 102 million. Fixing one part for the funding and another for the prepare. And I don't need anything to sell, because the real things are in there and the initiative is running. On the PTS theme, I'll tell you that. That was the sound of fun and we put it on the table, and we agreed with you to meet Mr. Otero, but he actually put it on the table saying, "That's good for you to have it." And you didn't find out about that PTS in Iberdro, no, you found out about something else, and you mixed things up. And it's true there's a deal with the Iberdrola that we could develop today's PTS oil and build a park. That's one thing, and the PTS editor is another thing, and we do it ourselves from the Basque Power Organization. Therefore two things are different, and let us not confound them. Anyway, if this really trust situation is true and it's your interest to promote stimulant energy, because you've mentioned it over and over again, I think we're doing it because it's proof. So I think that's the way it is. And when this instrument, which gives you so much interest, is fixed, and very accurately agreed with Euedes, because they have a great deal of talk about it, neither doubt nor doubt, either Mr. Otero or Mr. Becerra, for they were the two who had actually been there, they will know. And I think it is not the first time that we speak of all this, for you ask more than once. It's okay. But it's not because we have anything to hide, but because we still have to determine these things, and you know that, as you said, our councils have a lot of difficulty. So when all this is done, we shall discuss how it will be done, not beforehand. Not forward. And if there was money, I told you where it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "The question is, Edurne García Chrombies of the Podemos to the head of Economics and Sub-Sergeural Division, about the state and regularity of companies working in the area of the taxi and the VTC." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u67	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Ms Tapia, in January 2019 the Basque Government agreed, together with the Basque Taxi Federation and representatives of the Basque VTCs that they would work to advance the definition of the bases and the articulation of a new Basque regulation regulating the VTC sector. Last October 30th, as you know, we knew that the Uber mobility platform broke into Euskadi and started operating in Bizkaia with about twenty vehicles. In view of this situation, what measures will the Basque Government take to regulate the activity of VTCs in Euskadi and how will the commitment to the taxi sector be maintained against a model of private transport that deteriorates working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Tapia, to answer, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u69	Eskerrik asko, president anderea Mrs García, as you said, it was on 18 December when we formed the joint table between the taxi sector and the VTC sector in Euskadi. The Basque Taxi Federation, which makes up 90% of the Basque taxis, and the Basque VTCs, the different associations that exist, were present. And of course the aim was to adapt the existing legislation, regulate the two activities, because they are really different, and do so in an agreed way, in a way that is consensual with the two sectors. In this context, well, since we have been working and considering that it was much more effective to do so, for almost a year, with two elements that I think are differential to other autonomous communities and that is that we are the only ones who at the same table are the two sectors, working side by side, each defending their interests, which are different. And secondly, trying to regulate and develop a decree of our own, a regulation of its own that leads us precisely to define very well what we want to do, and always considering that 1/30, that 1/30 ratio that is defined by law, let us carry it out. The purpose of the decree, therefore, is to define exactly how taxis have to work, how they have to work VTC licenses, how they have to share space, and always in order to offer the best service to the citizen. We've been working on it for a year and we're in the final phase of that decree. We are awaiting the preparation of the Cojua report and, of course, we have had the decree on public display for a long time. After the outbreak of the Uber platform, we have also held a meeting with the sector, the VTCs and taxis, and our intention is, of course, to complete the development of the decree and take it to the Governing Council before the end of this year, so that it will enter into force as soon as possible, being aware that it regulates two different activities, which were already previously collected in the LOTT, which were not being fulfilled in many places, but which of course we want to comply with.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u71	Mrs. Tapia. From Elkarrekin We can share with the taxi sector the rejection of the boom of transnational corporations, such as Uber and Cabify, which under the umbrella of the collaborative economy, can precariously and threaten a sector that employs more than 2,000 families in Euskadi. We ratify our total opposition to this type of multinationals, who misuse the collaborative economy to escape labour and tax regulations. But we cannot help but say that this sudden arrival disgusts us and generates questions and much mistrust. The rejection by the majority of parliamentary groups of such platforms was well known. And you have to recognize me, Madam Counsellor, that you have had plenty of time, since December last year, when you agreed at the working table, that you share members of your department with taxi drivers and representatives of the VTC, to articulate a regulation that regulates the sector so that, among other measures, the conditions of prior recruitment are fulfilled, a minimum of 30 minutes for the provision of the service, and the recruitment of customers in public spaces is prohibited. Although it was a year ago that decision, it was the sudden news that Uber was beginning to operate in Euskadi that made his department aware that it is necessary to articulate a framework for all licences to be governed by a decree that allows for harmonious coexistence, based on the application of strict regulations and the monitoring of their compliance by all. A decree that was re-announced a few days ago, as you have already reported, for its publication to materialize before the end of the year, but that during these months has not been developed. The surprise break-in of the Uber mobility platform in Bilbao's public transport offer prompted an urgent meeting with the taxi sector table and representatives of the VTC, together with members of its department, to finally complete a work that began over a year ago. It seems that this issue is not one of your department's priorities, despite the large number of people affected by the taxi sector. Let us hope that you and your department will maintain your commitment and listen deafly to the various pressures and voices that from some sectors of Basque society call for the presence of driver rental vehicles, VTCs, in Euskadi to be an advance and an improvement of well-being for citizens in Euskadi. Companies such as Uber and Cabify represent a model of private transport outside public control that deteriorates working conditions. In addition, they do not employ workers on behalf of others, but as you already know, false self-employed. Our support, therefore, for taxi drivers and taxi drivers does not in any way prevent us from denouncing the working conditions of the workers of Uber and Cabify, because they are not worthy. We must also call for these conditions to improve, because they are precarious conditions. Your task, Mrs. Tapia, is not to get over the unexpected, to regulate the activity of the VTCs in Euskadi, that of the taxi sector, and to maintain the commitment to taxi drivers and taxi drivers so that we have as soon as possible a decree – which comes late – and we do not have to take our hands to the head in the face of future surprises and new eruptions. And from Elkarrekin we can be vigilant and vigilant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u73	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs García, first of all, I think we need to differentiate between what is the activity of the VTCs with which digital platforms use those licenses. Therefore, what we are regulating are two different activities that are reflected in the decree. Secondly, it should be pointed out that the processing of a decree of these characteristics is virtually the same within the Government as that of a law, and it has a great deal of work to do. It's not that, all of a sudden, because Uber showed up in Bilbao, we've speeded up processing. No, the processing follows a really complex channel, with hearing procedures, as you know, to many institutions, with a lot of legal reports, from Emakunde, from many others, and the last is that of the Cojua. This is where we are, the Cojua report is missing and once we have that report, we will collect the contributions that will be made and then we will introduce them into the decree and take it to the Governing Council. So, let's step by step. And if you have an interest in knowing it, I can detail all the procedures and dates that have been carried out, because once the agreement has been reached, it has not been easy, between two really different activities, collecting all the interests and ensuring above all that users are given the best possible service, once they have had that agreement, after developing it, it takes a while. But, I insist, if you want more details, I can tell you what the processing has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Ask the question, José Ramon Becerlo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head of economics and the sub-governed department, with regard to Cables y AAmbrores Speciales, the future of the SA industry project." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief. Good day to all of you congressmen. Cables y AAMres Eseciales is about to close up, and it was about 2015, when you sold the floor to Vicinay's company to do the management of the company. You put a condition on that sale, and it was very clear that for five years at least it was the condition of keeping industrial projects, but last year all the conditions of sale were suddenly removed from Viceinay's company and a corporation that had passed by, and now the company is in the competition. Then my question is: Do you think the conditions you took were helpful to maintain industrial projects?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u76	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u77	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. It's a long time since Cables y AAMberes Speluciles SA EDCACESED and pre-existing corporations. It's been in decades since, and we've put different solutions on the table at different times, and we've agreed with them, because the difficulties aren't current, they've come for a long time. We're always trying to find out what's the best solution. As you may say, some soil sold out after all, and then permission was given to be able to perform an operation and I'll explain it to you. The transaction that was authorized to Cables and Wires, to Vicinay specifically, was to separate the assets in such a way that they could guarantee the viability of the company. That is to say, on the one hand they were located in a company dependent on Vicinay 100 % of real estate, and on the other hand, what was the activity. Why? Because it allowed the indebtedness that could be made on the company to guarantee activity to be carried out better. Therefore, the operation that was authorized was not only not bad, let's say, kaltegarria Therefore, it was not that – as I understand you have intended to say – it was not the authorization of that operation that has certainly led to the current situation in Cables and Wires.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u79	The guarantees that were put at your time in 2015 you know them as well as I do. They were, on the one hand, the sale conditional on industrial use, and, on the other hand, a right of tanteo and retraction which was left to the Basque Government for ten years in the event of non-fulfilment. In December 2018, the agreement of the Governing Council, to our surprise, not only included being able to sell the land before with reasons to separate the assets or to square the financial balance of the company, which you say, they responded in writing; they also eliminated the right of tanteo and retraction. And to our group that seemed at the time to be a serious mistake, and it still seems to us. It was not necessary for the separation of assets to eliminate the right of tanteo and retraction, because it has happened now with the company, is that it gives the feeling, when it has presented the competition of creditors, that it has been a kind of "take the dough and run". Or in this case, take the ground and run. And this worries us. In 2015 it was already known that these lands had the possibility of being urbanizable, and in fact they appear in the progress of the General Plan of Urban Planning. And the fact that the Basque Government, which had these lands, which owned these lands, and which sold them with a ten-year right of tanteo and retraction, which no longer has that right of tanteo and retraction means that the company closes the industrial ship, closes the industrial activity and sells those lands as perfectly urbanizable. This mismanagement of public money, Mrs Tapia, has already happened in more cases. It's happened with the Alpha group in Eibar, it's happened with La Naval, and we're worried. Because what Cables and Wires need, in case it continues, I would like you to tell us what the department will do too so that it can follow the industrial activity of Cables and Wires, what Cables and Wires will need, in any case, is industrial land. Industrial land. So if the government had an industrial land and no longer has it, and it put it in the hands of a company to develop an industrial project, and the company now closes it before even the deadline on which it was committed and sold, with what defense are the 120 workers left? And what do we get, what does this country get, what does this government get, what does this society get? The company Vicinay also undertook to make a number of investments in machinery. He didn't, he didn't invest in security, he didn't. He did not make a single business plan about which products were profitable or not profitable. So now we find a company that is just as bad as it was, but that on top of it has no land, and the Basque Government, which had set up the land, has run out of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u80	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u81	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr Becerra, what the company has decided, the plans that its board of directors has drawn up, the viability plans that it has analysed, of course I do not know 100% of them. I'm glad you know them and are able to value them. We know the difficulties they are going through and we also know two more things. One, that the company Vicinay has another plot in Erandio acquired by them, to which it could have transferred this company, if this company was currently in viability. Therefore, there was at no point in the company's willingness to close CAESA per se And, secondly, the competition manager himself has said, I do not say, the competition manager who is at the moment, who is responsible for what is going to happen in that company, the resources obtained from all that this competition can be, including the ground, will go only to two places: one, to pay the debts to the workers; and two, to pay the debts of the creditors. Therefore, this attempt to make the company think that it is taking those land and money into its pocket and to the company Vicinay, is not true, said the competition manager himself. However, as I have told Mr Casanova before, there has been will and there is will in Vicinay to reach a possible solution, and some alternatives have been proposed; very difficult, given the situation of the business and the market at the moment. But of course, no one, no businessman in this country and no company has the will to close, nor to leave their workers in unemployment for no reason. That is not true, and in this case, of course, the government has worked a long time, I have told you, many decades with this company, it continues to do so right now at the hands of its Vicinay owners. I insist, these lands, today, their possible sale will be unique and exclusively to pay debts, workers and creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpology by Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, a member of the Pogula team, made for Epleguus and the head physician of the Polic communities, to fight against the destruction of their employment." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mrs Artolazabal, I would like us to talk about employment today. We have been talking about jobs, things, aspects of creating or destroying jobs in this community, at this time, and for specific groups of people. I have known what the government will be doing, or how you think things are being done, but it has been through the spokespersons, so I want this dialogue with you today, so that you give us your opinion, and above all that you tell us a little more what you are going to do in what is left of the legislature. This morning they asked the lehendakari, Mr Alonso, my group-mate, did; he asked him how he saw the employment situation, the latest data and how he saw the future. And the lehendakari has come to say that it is going to continue to create jobs and that it is going to be quality jobs. I do not share it, I do not think enough employment is believed, and I also think that quality employment is not exactly what is being created, but, well, that is what we will talk about later. You on Tuesday, I think you went, came and presented us the budgets and the first thing you said, you talked about the issue that really worries you the most, I worry about me, we worry everyone and that's what worries all Basques the most: employment. He told us about employment and he told us that they will continue to work towards the goal of lowering the unemployment rate below 10%, and that they will be very alert to international commutes, because they were making it a little difficult for them to work and create jobs. The international and national vavenes, but, well, that's logical, we live in an open market and we are influenced by our neighbours, our own country and our neighbouring countries, and others that are a little further away but that also affect us a lot in the economic life of our country. And I hoped that, after telling us that, he would tell us about the great news we had in the department to take a turn, a change, a turn, to the situation we have of unemployment. Because, I think, and I am going to try to explain to you why, the situation is not good; and you, in fact, last week told us that when the employment data for October were known, that it was difficult to consolidate the unemployment rate below 10%, that right now we are at 9.2 as you told us last Tuesday, but that it was difficult because of precisely external issues. Good. Well, I also see it difficult, Mrs Artolazabal, and I would like you to come up to the rostrum when I'm done, tell me what your true opinion is, whether that of this Tuesday or that of the previous Tuesday when those data were known. Whether things are going well or not, and what you're going to do at the end of the legislature. When you entered the government, Mr. Urkullu called you. Do you like the kitchen, Mrs. Artolazabal? Yeah. Me too. I like it a lot. I'm going to put on a simile, because we're going to understand each other more easily. Because this job isn't that easy, that of saying "we're going to lower it below 10," it may be okay or it may be wrong, even if the target has been met. And you've always talked about that goal of the 10th. We told him, all the opposition groups, that it was a very poor objective, that you wanted little, that you had to be more ambitious, because simply leaving things as they are, if we maintained our economic structure, among the young people who were leaving us, those who were retiring and the pace of economic growth that we had and the employment that was being created, was being fulfilled alone. We did not have to do any kind of policy, just leave things alone and that unemployment rate was going to fall and it was going to stay below 10%, which we both believe is not going to be met. Mr. Urkullu commissioned you to make a potato tortilla; ordered you to make a potato tortilla, gave you the keys to the pan, you opened the door and found that there were pans, oil, salt, eggs and potatoes. And you started to make the potato tortilla, put the potato to fry, cook it slowly in oil, beat the eggs, mixed them, put the pan into the fire, lit it, salted it and started making the potato tortilla, and when the potato tortilla was already two years old, decided it was time to turn the tortilla around. He turned the tortilla around and, what happened? That the fire was extinguished; I don't know if you turned it off, Mrs Artolazabal, or the general situation turned off the fire, which is what is happening to us, which is that the economy is getting cold. The economic and job creation and wealth-generating trend has been cooled by the change of government that has taken place, which they have promoted since their party. It's cooled on international issues, it doesn't matter what the cause is, but the truth is it's cooled, and you've run out of fire that tortilla practically unmade. And it's gonna be the end of the legislature and you're gonna give the lehendakari the tortilla you ordered. But we all know that underneath that tortilla is unmade, that egg is uncooked. That tortilla is broken, Mrs. Artolazabal. You started from a base of 947,000 active people at the beginning of the legislature, in October 2017 and you have raised it to 987... 41,000 more people. There were 130,000 people standing there and it's 115,000. It's very hard to tell those 115,000 people who want to work and who can't, "I'm sorry, I've already met my goal of making the tortilla, which was my 10%, and you get bored and you don't have a job." But even if we get to that 10%, I tell you the tortilla is broken, Mrs Artolazabal. Because, look, in October 2017 there were 18,000 unemployed young people. Do you know how many there are now? You do know: 18,000. I think it's 500 and a peak or 600 less than those three years ago; then, youth employment, which was already in a very bad situation, is still in a bad situation. I had thought that there were 56,000 unemployed women, today there are 50,000, which means that of the 15,000 unemployed less than there are in the country, it is not the women who have been benefited, then we are going for the second group that is affected; the weakest are the ones who have endured the policies against unemployment that you have directed throughout the legislature. And of those over 45, another very sensitive group, if we had 64,000 we are at 58,000, then the proportion of those 15,000 is also not met. That is to say, the most disadvantaged, the most sensitive groups are the ones who are going through the worst after implementing their employment policies. The tortilla is broken, that's what we agree on, and I don't have much time left. Now let's talk, if we have talked about numbers, now let's talk about the quality of that job that has been created, Mrs Artolazabal. You have to try the tortilla, you have to open it and you have to wait for it to cool and try it. And when you try the tortilla, you realize that the tortilla is not very good. The egg you've laid, let's say it's people's conditions of employment, the quality of that job, is bad, it's not a great, exquisite chicken egg that's eaten exclusively grain. No, no, No, no, That egg's not good. That egg is not good because the salary has not grown as it had, the average salary of the Basque workers has not grown as it should have grown and is held at a high level, others have already advanced us, but it is held at a high level because those who are indeed earning more money than before are the public employees, and that we keep with the budgets, but the companies cannot reach those levels because it does not give them, because economic activity does not give them. Then the employees are not well paid, or not as they should be, or not as they are growing elsewhere. If there were 286,000 temporary contracts by October 17, today there are 296,000. From 284,000 in practice to 296,000. You sure know the data better than I do, but the important thing is that those nearly 300,000 temporary contracts we have now have grown. That is, if someone wants a job, they want a well-paid job and a fixed job, to have peace and develop a life project. And here it turns out that they are neither well paid, or not as they should, or not at the rate they were growing before and, of course, there are more and more temporary jobs. And you are responsible too, this was not private employment, Mrs Artolazabal, you are responsible for public employment. Mr Urkullu is the biggest employer in the Basque Autonomous Community. Euskadi's biggest patron is Iñigo Urkullu. Iñigo Urkullu keeps the staff exactly the same as when this legislature arrived. There were 209,000 public workers in all areas of public administration and today there are 209,000, a few hundred up, a few hundred down, in three years Mr Urkullu has not created public employment. But not only has it not created public employment, but we have the highest temporality rate in all of Spain. When people normally want to go to work in the public administration, they do so because they are well paid – which we already see is not much – and, of course, because it is a fixed job. That's what people like best. That's why people, instead of starting to work in one place, prepare exams, study, form themselves to pass those oppositions. And it turns out that here we have the highest temporality index in all of Spain. That index, that precarious public employment. Insecure public that is created in the private part and precarious employment in the public part. I, for all these reasons, Mrs Artolazabal, tell you that the situation is not right. You tell me that yes with the head and I would like that now, that the president is going to give you the turn, explain your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Time is up. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u85	Mahaiburu's walking. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I do like cooking. And besides, I've made many tortillas, many, many tortillas. I think my tortillas were very good in the batzoki and I think they were also very successful. My customers, our customers very willingly accepted the tortilla we offered them. And I believe that the tortilla that we are preparing is also meeting the objectives that this country has and of those who have somehow placed their trust in us to continue making the tortilla. I think I also have enough resources of all kinds to be able to carry on, and I'm not running out of butane to be able to finish cooking the tortilla. And, therefore, Mr Arbulo, as far as I am concerned, as far as I am concerned, as far as we are concerned, this government is going to fulfil the objective, which was to reduce unemployment below the 10 %, which I have always said and which this Government has stated, was an ambitious and complicated objective to achieve and therefore what we have been saying throughout it is nothing different from what we originally proposed. In your question, you draw and formulate a catastrophic scenario in the State and also, as a consequence, in Euskadi and attribute this black panorama to the departure of the PP of the Government of Madrid, that is what you have justified in the question you have asked us. And of course I, with humility, believe that this has nothing to do with our scope in Basque. You say that there has been a radical change in the situation of the most vulnerable groups to the labour market crisis. We are putting in place initiatives that are working for those most vulnerable groups: women, long-term unemployed, persons with disabilities and so on. In our Basque administrative sphere things are very different from what you are proposing, Mr Arbulo. Employment here is growing moderately, but it is growing, and with great effort we are getting it between companies, society and institutions. But I do want to make it clear that employment in Euskadi is growing. Last week we knew, as you well know, October data, in which the unemployment rate in Euskadi increased by 1,700 people and the rate of social security affiliates increased by more than 16,500, so we were very close to having the highest numbers of social security affiliates in the whole history of Euskadi. This is the second best month of October in the last 10 years. The growth of Social Security affiliates is around 20,000 people and we are only 4,700 registered to get the maximum we achieved in July 2008. It seems reasonable, therefore, to think that very soon we will overcome this historical figure, reaching the million contributors in Euskadi. And that's going to be a good thing, Mr. Arbulo. Euskadi is the second community with a better behavior in the evolution of Social Security and, therefore, what I want to make clear to you is that I deny the largest: in Euskadi, jobs are created, and jobs are created giving opportunities to those vulnerable groups, which, for us, as well as for you, need our greatest attention. This positive development in employment is costing a lot of effort and more and better jobs, from more and more permanent training, we have to adapt to market changes and also to the economy itself. The current situation in Euskadi is as follows: in 2018 the Basque economy had a growth of 2.8%, a tenth lower than the result obtained the previous year. With saw teeth, but this October's annual balance leaves us 7,000 unemployed less than the previous year, and the annual reference shows a sharp decline in the long-term unemployed, with a decrease of 11.5 %. European and international macroeconomic data speak of deceleration, and in this context the specific results, such as those of the last month of October, must be interpreted. The Basque economy is growing around its potential values and is also growing above the data that the European Union is marking, with growth of 1.5% in employment and in the euro area of 1.2%. We maintain a differential of more than one point with regard to the increase in Germany, which is a benchmark for us, as I hope it is for you too, which is growing in the field of employment by 0.7, France by 1.2 and, in particular, we are concerned about Italy, which is decreasing by 0.1 %. Euskadi, I insist, will grow by 1.6% in the employment rate. If with this data you pose that negative vision of Euskadi, what will you tell me when the bad times really come? Euskadi currently has 115,000 people registered as unemployed, job seekers. And for us that is an important and worrying figure, and we have to keep moving forward. This figure is less than 5.7% compared to October 2018. Euskadi's labour market is offering opportunities and the data tells us that even the most difficult groups are accessing employment, as I mentioned earlier. We're on the right track, although we have a lot of clouds and we have to keep working and insisting on those subjects. We insist on the need for training and updating for employment. You know the Budgets, we present them the other day: a commitment determined by active employment policies and in the field of training; with an increase and a commitment by training policies to re-establish these groups, who have to face difficulties with the new situations they face, digitisation, new jobs and so on; among people over 45 there are 2,865 fewer people in unemployment than in October 2018; the number of GIR recipients, as you well know, continues to decline and the long-term unemployment has also decreased slightly during this month. This evolution shows how economic recovery, I insist, is giving opportunities to all people. We set ourselves as our goal in this legislature to provide opportunities for 20,000 young people to achieve this first job opportunity. We are going to get it and I am sure that you too will be happy with that goal. Gross domestic product in Euskadi increased in the third quarter and stood at 2 % compared to the quarter of 2018, according to estimates by Eustat. This annual growth is two tenths lower than estimated by the Government in the previous quarter. Germany has today given GDP growth data with a growth of 0.1%. If you were a parliamentarian in the German Bundestag, what would you say to Mrs Merkel, when your economy is growing only at 0.1% and in Euskadi we are growing at 2%? Therefore, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, in Euskadi we have a positive situation with regard to economic growth, also with regard to employment growth. We have to keep moving, we are, and for that we are implementing policies in order to adapt to the new circumstances. We will soon complete the current Strategic Employment Plan and we are implementing it with positive results. We are also incorporating the necessary updates to make it dynamic and effectively respond to the identified needs. I repeat that the catastrophic scenario that you paint in the state and attribute to the changes of government of Madrid, has nothing to do with our field in Euskadi. This, our country, our citizenship, their employment, well-being and progress is our main goal, and economic recovery is indeed giving opportunities to all groups. On Tuesday he presented to the Finance Committee the draft budgets for 2020, the master lines of employment support prepared from our department. We stressed that over 275 million of Lanbide's budget will be devoted to employment programmes. We will strengthen promotion and integration systems and services. We are also adapting, with new programmes, as I explained to you, a digital competence programme aimed at supporting the reintegration of those who have been left out of the labour market. We are also highlighting the creation of programmes such as social impact bonds, aimed at caring for long-term unemployed people. Our programmes are also providing special consideration or have special consideration with regard to the gender perspective, and we also open a new line of support to companies for investment in assets. We are generating new tools to prepare these companies for the future, and Lanbide will devote 115 million in training actions. We are betting on local employment plans, and we are also putting in place different initiatives, such as priority areas, with more than EUR 10 million by 2020. We therefore bet decisively in the area of employment for persons with disabilities. Therefore, Ruiz de Arbulo, we do not share the black clouds that you are presenting. We are concerned that we have to be alert to what is happening abroad, but we believe that Euskadi has a promising future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Artolazabal, if everything goes so well, everything is great and you do not share the black clouds that I see and that I have tried to argue with you with absolutely objective data, why did you tell us that you are not going to meet your poor goal of reaching 10%? Yes, he did it in a press release to assess October's employment data. He said it was difficult to consolidate employment in the three territories below 10%. That's what I read in the media, which also misread the note and transcribed something else. In any case, I am convinced that that is your true view of this issue and this problem, because, despite what you have told us here, the third-quarter EPA, Mrs Artolazabal, is the worst we have had in many years. But the problem isn't that it's the worst we've had in many years; it's that we're headed on many things, we have a more powerful economy, we've been punished less by the crisis, and we were in a very good starting situation, but it's that I was embarrassed to see in the graphs of the EPA sheet, in the explanatory summary, to see the Basque Autonomous Community at the tail of all, with the worst behaviors of that third quarter that, in your opinion, should be good. The latest employment data are not good, Mrs Artolazabal. It is the worst month of October in many years, in seven or nine years, it takes us to times when cassock jobs are destroyed everywhere. That's our reference. That data is not good, Mrs Artolazabal, and of course, with those limbs it is very difficult to combat this possible unemployment. You say they're pending international ships. Okay, yeah. I would be more attentive, as Mr Alonso said, to that future minister of Podemos at the head of the work portfolio, or of socialist policies, which we all know have always served to destroy employment in this country – I do not invent it, they are absolutely historical data and known to all. When they enter the government, we all know where employment comes from in Spain, and that situation is going to be consolidated over time, and that economic situation of companies is going to stop employment growth, and many jobs are going to be destroyed. Today we have been talking about a couple of specific undertakings, throughout this plenary, that are advancing these difficulties, and the most worrying thing is that there is no action on the part of his Government. There are no tax measures for companies to encourage job creation. They do not exist, they have not announced them, they have not foreseen them, they have always refused to open that melon. We are not attractive for new businesses to come. We all know that these international or national waves have caused many companies to move in certain areas of Spain, especially Catalonia. Here she has not come, there is Mrs Tapia, who could give us the concrete data, but I don't think she has any. Many companies have moved with the Brexit situation in the UK, many companies from the UK have moved and have come to Europe, and have come to Spain as well. Here, big ones, none. For something we're not attractive, something's not working. If we do not create new businesses, if no companies come from outside, if the investment is not at its best, national or foreign, it is because we are not attractive and so we will not create jobs, Mrs Artolazabal. They're not clouds what I'm putting on, it's reality, which you know perfectly and which you know better than I do. And I can't deny it, they're not my opinions. It is the EPA of the third quarter, are the results of the month of October and we will see in 15 days what happens with the month of November. And I'm warning you, Mrs. Artolazabal, the results are not going to be good, and you're not putting in place any new mechanisms. He continues to do what he was doing, which has given bad results: less employment, and temporary employment, poor employment. He told us that membership has grown. What kind of affiliates have grown up, Mrs. Artolazabal? The least priced. We don't care about those jobs, we want them all, but we want the others. We want quality employment, as the lehendakari said, and we are not creating it. Mrs. Artolazabal, please give him a thought to all this and do something, because the tortilla, which has not put alavesa potatoes on him, the egg is bad and it has been broken below him, and in the end we pay all the citizens, and those 115,000 Basque citizens who want to work and can't, to whom you look and say, "Don't worry, that I have already fulfilled my goal of government." And that government is a broken tortilla, Mrs. Artolazabal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u89	Thank you, ma'am. I did not say that I was not going to meet the target of lowering the unemployment rate below 10%; what I said was that it is an ambitious target and that it is difficult, but I did not say that we are not going to meet it. Of course we are going to do it, we are committed to doing it, and besides, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, the EPA rate and the unemployment rate recorded in Lanbide, I am sorry, but these are positive trends that are confirming that the policies that this Government is implementing are working. Both agree and the unemployment rate at the moment is 9,2 % and therefore below the 10% that we had set ourselves as a target. I, from the good personal relationship that you and I have had – which we have known for a long time – did not like it very much when you made this inquiry, because this same inquiry was made by you on April 1. At that time, the unemployment data they gave were positive. You withdrew that inquiry, because you knew what would be the answer we were going to give you – which I was going to give you – and at this time, when in October the unemployment data were a little more negative or were not as favorable as at that time, you did not miss the opportunity to put the same inquiry with the same justification, adding another paraphyte. I think... I could have maintained the same argument that I had prepared at the time, and answered it with the short and sticky, but I believe, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, that I deserve great respect for the work that the Members of Parliament are doing, and what I have done has been to modify that initiative, to modify that response, because the labour market is changing, and during that time many things have happened. The measures to generate employment, as you know, are not permanent in time, we have to be constantly testing them, and for that, what we have to do is talk to the agents involved, and that is what we are in: talking to the agents involved to know what their needs are in order to be able to offer them the resources they need. We're reviewing, we're evaluating, we're studying all the needs that the labour market has. The world of work is a world in constant transformation and adaptation, and this is all it takes to see. We have put in place many new measures: training measures with commitment to recruitment, we have revised them and we have seen some programmes that did not work, and I recognised in the committee that we have adapted them, that they are giving their results; local actions for promoting employment; the contract for the return of education and also for the training of under 30 years of age; training for young people with low qualifications, a new programme that we launched last year, and training courses also for professionals in the field of youth, because we believe that we have an important challenge that we are addressing. In the employment of people with disabilities we are also working very intensively, and for that reason over the past five years there has been a 35% increase in the number of people, from 6,000 to 8,000 people who have had an opportunity, and I believe, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, that despite the fact that you do not like the situation and that you would like it as well as otherwise, we are moving forward, and we are doing things. Look, industrial production, the industrial output index of the Basque Autonomous Community has risen by 1.9 % in the last month, and that is a great fact, because that data implies that the Basque industries, those that do come, those that are investing in this country, those that are doing things to give employment opportunities, those that generate employment, they are offering those opportunities. Interannual unemployment has fallen, as I said, in the area of people over 45, 11 % more signed contracts of an indefinite nature have been signed than in the last month, we are also giving women opportunities, because the number of unemployed women has fallen, from December 2016 to June 2019, by 12.29 % and therefore we have many challenges to address, but I think we are also doing things. Euskadi has increased from 29.9% of youth unemployment in 2012 to 17.9%, and the membership of Social Security in Euskadi has grown by more than one year. 10 % since 2012. As I was saying, Mr Arbulo, we are still working, because I do not know what the alternative economic model you propose is, the one that is yielding results...?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Reformation, Rebeka Ubera Aranz, and EH, made to the head of the Board of Education, concerning the appeal to the Society of the Visions." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u91	Good morning, chief physician. This question was registered on the 3rd of October, so we gave you time to take the measures to take, and correct the summons you are preparing for the public offer of inspections. So today is the answer I expect from you: "It was bad, and we've already taken measures, and we've taken care of the measures that baffled anonymousness. So we'll be back in the last few calls." Is that what you'll answer to me today, Mrs. Wheels? When we read the call and read, I couldn't believe what I had in front of my eyes, that this government didn't seem to have had enough of it and that it hadn't learned from Osap and the Board of Education and the Osacombs that there was a competition between us. And what size are we going to propose? And the size he proposes is precisely anonymous. On the other hand, in response from central inspection to a union, the inspection admits that anonymousness is breaking. I will leave it there, because the arguments they use to justify it are not of what use it should be. In the early draft call, then, the Board of Education drew back objectivity and impartiality. He had also, last year, a report made by the jury in the Second Education and Education of 2018, very neat, conclusions, and recommendations made in Hezik. He didn't even guarantee the legal security, he turned his back on a resource of quality. May I have your attention, madam, please, to inform us that you are correcting the call you are making today?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u93	Mr. President of Parliament, Congressman, good day. Mrs. Ubera, 2019. In this year the Board of Education, by his service in the main inspection, is employed to define the new order, which regulates the appeal of a just position in order to be a member of the education show in the Basque Autonomia Erdigo. As the principal inspector reported, in the event of his departure in February, to explain the principal lines of work in the theatre of education, this service is created as a fundamental service to guarantee the right of education, and to respect the fundamental principles it collects. Hence it is necessary that the best professionals and the greatest experienced men should be able to guarantee the principles of objectivity and equality which can be demanded in any public employment. In this respect, the Board of Education was strict enough to follow the tramits necessary to form the new appeal. From the initial draft, it has been sent to counterpoise, and reports to the legal services, to the Basque Council, to the Estivity, to the DAIMA Committee, and to the Public Function. Not a single report sent by their institutions has disturbed the third point on the seventh ground of your inquiry. Just opposite. In the resolution of the Basque School, not only does it prevent the fact that the novelty which has been added in the case of positive acceptance, but a improvement was proposed, that is, to give the candidates more time for questioning and periphering, so that they may show their personal attitudes and abilities. And these reports, as you will understand, we must consider them as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u95	Mrs. Chief physician, you explained the whole process to me, all the tramits that have to be passed, but you didn't answer what you'll do. And what I want to know is that in that call the Board of Education will be able to allow, to breach anonymous, or not, because in this first draft of the summons, the question is to break the anonymous and consequently to give up the objectiveity with the breach of this anonymous anonymousness, the impartiality is left aside, with which, at any time, the best professionals can enter into the inspection, but other things can be guaranteed. And you'll have to explain to me the purpose of the Board of Education. So, what do you mean by this? If that doesn't work, you're going the same way as the health chief physician? Hasn't the Board of Education learned anything from the OCDs of this government? He didn't learn anything? He's not running? And that's what I want to know. We sent our petition to the Basque School Council, and here's a proposition, and we'll see what you do in that proposition. But I want to know what you're gonna do. If you want OPE's calls to improve, you have two options: and the other is, you know, the frame of the OPE to define and make, that it is stateal, founded on a royal decree. There, then, a road may be carried on in order to acquire the rights.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u97	Wandering Ubera: It is advisable to remind them that the summons is directed to the professors who already have the official bond of their career. I mean, they're officials who select other officials. It is impossible to compare with the appeals open to the people, and with the LEP, which is a process within the administration. It's not good to get involved, not to get involved. On the other hand, the Ministry of Education is always ready to discuss the proposals, and to discuss the work established. And as you know, in front of the allegations introduced by certain syndicate agents, this subject was discussed on the 9th of October, 2019 at the meeting of the Plankini Committee in the State University. In this meeting the reasons for change were stated, and the advantages of proposals made and the evidence and impartiality of the process were received. This process is developing Navarro and other autonomy into other communities. And so, as a good practice, the selection of the future Euskal Autonomia of the Esquires has been thought to be a proper practice for the process. Seeing the doubts expressed by the representatives of the workers, and to ensure the impartiality and legal certainty of the trial, with the consent of all the collective ones that may be involved, the new format of trial has been decided to revert to the next calls. The Board of Education is engaged in improving the calling of public offices in the field of teaching. For this purpose he has reports made from the tests given by the jury and by the inspection of education, and even the proposals made by the Basque School Council, and the resolutions he has given, in order to give a value to experience, within the margins of the law authorized by the fundamental regulations which he conducts these proceedings.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interpology, members of the Basque Team of Carmélo Barrojia Popula, the head physician of the Medical Department in the National Medical System, the Equitaine plan of Terapia advances to the Equitaine." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again, everyone and everyone. Counsellor, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. Well, this is an inquiry to get information, to get to know. Of course from my part, from scientific ignorance, but from the concern for the development of things we already know, of which we have spoken in this Parliament: precision medicine, therapies and techniques that can be implemented on diseases, in the oncological treatment of the new generation, in innovative medicines, etc. That is, there is ground, we know that there is ground to move forward and of course the health authorities have to tell us, they have to explain it to us. We in the specialized press are following up, we are seeing progress in this area, in the work of all kinds of professionals – oncologists, hospital pharmacists, etc.; we are talking about Car-T therapies, which I will explain briefly in a moment. Aspects of training, coordination, communication, as necessary ingredients in the care process linked to Car-T therapies; trials in hospitals, etc. That's what you have to talk to me about, of course. Advances in precision medicine and adaptation to the individual characteristics of each patient will be decisive in the treatment, cure of serious diseases, such as cancer. Among these advances, it is important to highlight treatments with cell therapy, advanced therapies that are based on the collection, modification of the immune cells of the patients to treat their own pathology; that is, the arrival of these therapies represents, in addition to an improvement of the quality and life expectancy of the patients, a challenge for the national health systems. That is the fundamental element, a challenge for national health systems, a challenge also for Basque health. In this regard, the political consensus reflected in constructive initiatives is essential for the efficient further construction of the development of science in our country. Among the cellular therapy drugs, there is a family called generic Car; when modified T-cells are used, they are called Car-T. The manufacturing process may be under the standard hospital exemption or industrial manufacturing. The implementation of these new therapies requires a multidisciplinary work between the various departments and services of the hospitals for their correct implementation and the development of the entire process: extraction of the patient's cells, modification and transformation into medicine from them, and proper management of the medicine obtained, which goes through proper conservation, dispensation, administration... That's why the importance of many professionals, managing side effects, concomitant therapies... In addition, the importance of traceability and pharmacovigilance of the process must be considered at all times. There is the European Medicines Agency, which recommended the first two marketing authorisations for industrially manufactured Car-T cells, which are, they have names of these very complicated and rare, which I am not going to say, of course. Treatment is already available in Spain against two types of cancers: lymphoblastic leukemia and B lymphoma. That's what we've known, and there are those scientific and health efforts of oncologists. The Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs and Social Welfare also approved last November the Plan for the Approach to Advanced Therapy in the National Health System with Car drugs. That's what the plan is called. The national nature of the plan ensures equity and, in particular, traceability. In this sense, efficiency measures can be enhanced to finance these new therapies. Good. This plan, the plan, aims to organize in a planned, equitable, safe and efficient way the use of Car and, at present, Car-T drugs in the National Health System, as well as to promote public research and the own and public manufacture of these medicines in the National Health System, in conditions that guarantee, precisely, what we are all looking for: quality standards, efficiency standards, safety standards, quality standards, etc. In this line, it is – and here is also the interest of this issue and of which you illustrate us – that it is for the Autonomous Communities to guarantee the mechanisms and potential resources necessary for the implementation of the plan. It will also require the adaptation of innovative management agreements in order to be able to dispose of these medicines in a sustainable way, the implementation of risk-sharing agreements in their different modalities, such as the expenditure ceiling and payment for results, financial strategies, such as payment for partial results. The application of advanced therapies is the last hope – that is very important – it is the last hope of those patients to whom only palliative care can be applied. In other words, it should be noted that, in the case of childhood cancer, between 80 and 90% of children with lymphoblastic leukemia are cured with intense chemotherapy or bone marrow transplantation; however, there are very few options for patients who do not respond to these treatments, and there we are moving forward. And that is the fundamental element. In Spain, it is estimated that approximately 600 cases of this form of leukemia are diagnosed each year, and from the Spanish Society of Hematology and Hemotherapy describe Car treatments as an opportunity for those patients who do not respond to current treatments. That's good news. In any case, the results of Car-T therapies so far are very hopeful. There is one example: young Emily Whitehead, 13, was the first girl to receive this genetic therapy in 2012, when she was six years old; now the young woman has been seven years without any relapse. The referral rate among minors is 83% when advanced Car-T therapies are applied. They are objective elements, they are examples, they are there, that is, they are producing results and then something can be done. When we read the Advanced Therapy Plan, as we see the permanent reference to the autonomous communities, there is the reference to the network of reference centers for the use and administration of Car drugs, when it is said that with any service or unit that proposes to be Car must have the health authorization of operation and the favorable report of the autonomous community where it is located. At the moment it seems that here – you will explain it to us – but at the moment there is none of that because there is no reference hospital in Car therapies in the Basque Autonomous Community. The closest one seems to be Valdecilla, but well, in any case you will explain why not and what purposes it has. Each autonomous community will request the appointment of the hospitals it considers and will proceed to the evaluation of compliance, the criteria... the experts shall designate. So far, the Basque Country has not done so. We'll see where you're going, you'll explain it to us. It's an important matter. Car's own drug manufacturing centers are also mentioned. These centres should be identified, proposed by each autonomous community within the Standing Committee on Pharmacy. There will surely also have some criterion and some objective and some proposal your department. Then there is the organization – this is complex and extensive – of the institutional working groups with the representatives of the autonomous communities within those working groups and commissions, in the expert groups where the autonomous communities can also appoint within that Standing Commission of Pharmacy; the expert group on the use of Car drugs, where the autonomous communities also have representatives; the expert group for the optimization of pharmaceutical management in the use of Car drugs, in the same way, and more. That is, there are more expert groups in relation to the implementation of what this plan sets out. In this sense, and in order to know and to advance and to promote the action of the Government also in relation to something that is working, with something that bears fruit, with something that also important Spanish hospitals have already put themselves to work with trials, with proposals... because we want to know what purposes your department has in order to implement actions in relation to the use of therapies and medicines Car in our public health. We spoke briefly about this at the budget time of the Department of Health. But in any case, I think it is necessary to deepen. We are now out of the way to implement that plan. I hope that we are not outside of what it is to take action and work for the implementation of Car therapies, but in any case the Government will have to tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u100	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u101	Mr. President, Congressman, chief of departments, all good days. First of all, Mr Barrio, I would like to thank you for the opportunity that you have given me to appear before you today so that I can present in this House the progress that we are making in new cancer therapies in Euskadi. I would also like to point out that I appreciate your interest in this type of new therapies, as on other occasions through questions to answer in writing, you have been interested in the meetings we were holding regarding these therapies with the Ministry of Health, and in the steps we were taking in Euskadi in this area. I understand and share the interest generated by this therapeutic advance, as the future of cancer treatment is already a reality. We are facing the first steps of new therapies that are changing the prognosis of some cancer patients. As you already know, cancer is the leading cause of death in Euskadi along with cardiovascular diseases. Cancer is a set of diseases of great impact in terms of morbidity and mortality, and it is estimated that about 40% of people will be diagnosed with cancer at some point in their lives in Western countries like ours. But at the same time as the number of new cases of cancer is increasing – last year we had about 13,500 new cases – it is also worth noting that progress is being made in the possibilities of early diagnosis and treatment, which means an increase in cancer survival. Thus, according to the latest studies we have conducted, the standardized survival rate at five years after diagnosis, in particular of those patients who were diagnosed with cancer in 2012 in Euskadi, the standardized number of survivors at five years, 2018, was 52.2% in men and 59.9% in women. Survival is higher than estimated for Europe in five years and is around 5.3% in men, 58% in women in a similar period. It must therefore be said that, in addition to continuing to make progress on all new avenues that allow us to take a comprehensive approach and personalized treatment, we continue to maintain prevention policies and screening and early detection programmes, because they are an investment to achieve, on an equal footing, higher levels of health for all Basques. Also, in the line of cancer prevention and within the framework of the 2013-2020 Health Plan, we need to continue the promotion of healthy lifestyle habits, with programs for the promotion of physical activity, healthy eating, and with interventions on alcohol, tobacco and other toxics that are needed. In this context, I would like to highlight the important work being carried out in Euskadi also since the investigation, because of its direct relationship with advanced therapies as well. In fact, cancer is one of the main research areas of the Basque Public Health System and its research network, where we have more than 400 projects in progress in this specific area of cancer. To put us in context and add to some of the explanations you have already presented, I would like to point out that CAR therapy is a personalized therapy, and that in the specific case of CAR-T and the use of T-lymphocytes, it has recently been approved by the European Commission for use in clinical practice; that is, until now it was exclusively used in research patients. Thus, CAR-T therapy is presented to us today as a new paradigm of therapy that allows the customization of treatment, and specifically of two types of cancer, as you have mentioned. One, the diffuse B lymphoma of large cells, and two, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, the most common type of cancer among children under 25 years of age, with an incidence of 4 per 100,000 inhabitants, and which, as you have mentioned, is currently only used for those refractory cases, those who have had relapse, post-chemotherapy therapies, bone marrow transplantation and others, and are therefore patients who are prone to usually die at an early age. However, I would like to point out that, although it is currently used in this type of cancer, it is true that other CAR therapies are being improved and investigated, as you have also pointed out, which, instead of T-lymphocytes, use Natural Killer and many other types of cells that may have this utility. And soon let's hope they're also useful for treating solid tumors and other diseases. For the time being, in these two types of haematological cancers that we have commented on, I want to emphasize that it is exclusively in those cases that have relapsed where CAR-T therapies have gained benefit, and in which it is true that in patients who are at an advanced stage of the disease they have curative options. These mentioned haematological cancers affect the lymphocytes, cells circulating through our bloodstream, and among their responsibilities, those that must make T lymphocytes under normal conditions, is the defense of disease. The paradox is that, in these diseases, the lymphocytes themselves are sick and do not identify a disease like cancer, and they are not able to defend us from it. These sick lymphocytes stop recognizing that there are cancer cells, and therefore begin these, without having anything to eliminate them, to multiply in our body, in the case of a leukemia or lymphoma, as I have mentioned. CAR-T therapy, more synthetically, consists of extracting blood from the affected patient and, thanks to genetic engineering, their lymphocytes are reprogrammed to be able to fight cancer again. These extracted lymphocytes are grown, initially correct genetic programming is carried out and reintroduced, once cultivated and with adequate genetic information, the patient himself. And now, these re-educated lymphocytes pass into the blood network where they are able to recognize and fight cancer cells. Having said that, stress that this is cancer therapy based on a new mechanism of action. We're not talking about therapy. –Let me call them conventional – as can be chemotherapy, immunotherapy or hormonal therapy. It is a completely novel mechanism of action, with genetic engineering and the use of viral vectors to incorporate genetic information into lymphocytes. As you can see, it is exciting to know the possibilities of these treatments. Therefore, we are facing a treatment at the cellular level, using the patient's own lymphocytes, to fight against his own cancer. Innovative therapies, promising that are moving from the research field, until a few months ago, to clinical and care at this time, and that require professionals expert in plasmapheresis, transplantation, cell therapy, the side effects that these therapies can generate, as well as aspects of cultivation, genetic engineering, viral vector manipulation, etc. For this reason, the Department of Health of the Basque Government wants to position itself as a reference in this matter, as you will all share. And this, always ensuring the safety of patients and professionals who will have contact with these therapies. In fact, we have been working for months to meet the necessary requirements. Cellular therapy procedures should be performed in specific units of health facilities. Cellular production procedures are complex and expensive, and require highly qualified personnel. At the state level, this novel therapy has required a plan to approach advanced therapies within the National Health System that you have mentioned. And we have participated in these commissions, from a technical point of view, professionals of the care network itself. They are therefore groups that are working on what indications, in what means and in which units. And it is true that the Basque Country has not been present among the units...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Your time is up. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u103	Thank you, President; thank you, Counsellor. When I started the interesting thing, he ran out of time. But, well, you have five minutes to expand that information, because it's true, it's more information than we want. We've been talking, me in a much humbler and simpler way, about what that was. You've expanded the details, but I think we need to have, and we need to have more information than is being done here. Because you say that you want to position yourself as a referent in this matter, for the moment we have exceeded many autonomous communities, many hospitals as referents of this matter. A wide list of hospitals such as Vall d'Hebron, the Clinic, Santa Creu, Joan de Déu, La Fe de Valencia, other hospitals in Valencia, Gregorio Marañón, El Niño Jesús de Madrid, the Salamanca Assistance, Virgen del Rocío de Andalucía, Doctor Negrin and many more, Valdecilla... A number of hospitals that are already working there and that have already asked to register, authorize themselves and work on these issues to want to position us as referents, sure we will, but it seems that there is a little delay at the moment. You have said that there are complex and costly procedures, but other communities are already addressing it. Other communities have decided to approach it for a long time, and we have seen it in the Plan, we have seen it in those commissions, and that is why we think, and what we said at the beginning: to our group, we know that this is an initiative because it is quite technical, rather little political, but it seems relevant to it to influence. And we were worried to see how we were left behind on issues that we, I don't know if we have led, but we have always been at the head and the vanguard, so now we will have the opportunity to expand on what we are doing from here, on which professionals are participating in Euskadi, on which expert commissions are working, that is, what are the reasons for not having, I think they go a little beyond complexity or cost, for not having worked before. Now we have got the information, we are getting it, we have to move forward, Madam Counsellor, that is to say that we, as you will understand, will put forward an initiative, a motion with an absolutely constructive spirit, in order to enable the Government, of course at the hands of Parliament, to follow a path and, above all, to take a path that has not been known to or has not been able to take in relation to involving our hospitals, some of them as reference elements, as working instruments. I mean, I think there are many issues to go through in relation to the guarantee of the organizational model, that all this has to change; therapeutic individualization we know that it is an issue that has its complexity, but well, it is already moving forward and we have to do it. Of course, economic endowment is fundamental, the procedures of evaluation committees are there; tending to social and health issues is important in relation to what we are doing in these types of patients. So, in that regard, counsel, I thank you for the information and I say to you that we will talk again, I don't know if with you, but with someone from your Government or from the groups that support the Government, about these issues in order to drive, of course, the CAR-T strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u104	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u105	I'm sorry I couldn't give you the relevant explanation. What I want to comment on is that we have participated in the technical committees that have been held at the Ministry level, and in them it was decided to make a series of periodic calls. Initially, in the first calls, in the evaluation, it has been taken into account that the centres had been actively involved in the clinical trials of the specific drugs that had been approved by the European Commission, among other aspects, so that, having not participated in those trials, we have not had as many options as the centres you mentioned, which, by the way, Valdecilla is not one of them. Therefore, there are a number of periodic calls to which we are clear that we are going to introduce ourselves. And, on the other hand, it is true that I already tell you that we did not introduce ourselves, but the reason was that we knew that the requirements were not met and so at the time of the presentation it was said in writing and it appears written in minutes that the Basque Country was doing what it needed to be able to present itself at the time it had options to be chosen. So, as I mentioned, then I announced that it was an intention to move forward and the Department of Health of the Basque Government has begun to develop the necessary actions so that the center that participates in CAR-T therapies is the Donostia University Hospital and that Biodonostia coordinates research in this type of therapies, together with all the research institutes. The choice of this center has been due to the fact that the Donostia University Hospital has a reference unit in the Basque Country for the allogeneic transplantation of hematopoietic parents, so it has the necessary number of cases that are required in order to be able to opt to be center infuser of these therapies, being this one of the essential criteria of accreditation. Therefore, we have been preparing for several months and, for example, since last June we are working with the Hematology Service on the accreditation of the hematopoietic transplant program JACIE, and also with the blood bank in the CAT accreditation program, which require a series of structural and organizational changes that we previously did not comply with and that we are required to do, and that have already been implemented. It must be said that these two requirements are important in order to be accredited. In addition, I would also like to announce that this same year will begin the necessary works at the Donostia University Hospital to adapt all the necessary spaces, and that these works are contemplated in the budgets that we presented to you last Tuesday. Our objective is that within one year these works have been completed, and we will present ourselves to the next call with the requirements that are required. A road map has also been approved for the establishment of an advanced therapy unit at OSI Donostia, which has as its main characteristics a central unit, with functional dependence on the management of the hospital and also on the research institute, including services and sections and research groups. It will also have, in this period of time, to ensure that the specific applications approved for these infusions are developed in the investment to be made. It should be noted that, in order to start treatment with CAR-T therapies, it is necessary for the industry that markets these therapies to qualify the infusing centers. Thus, OSI Donostialdea had last July the first technical qualification visit of the center by the representatives of these industries that market these industrial CAR-Ts and that we hope to be able to use these medicines when they authorize us by 2021 because we meet the requirements. These CAR-T therapies, I have talked about the benefits, but they can produce high complexity toxicities, so it is also necessary to have services such as immunology, neurology, lymphotoxic syndrome, for what it is necessary to train professionals and have a minimum number of cases that guarantee that all this will be done safely. In addition, we are working for the future academic CAR-T with several initiatives that will allow us in the future not only to be infuses, but also producers of these therapies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz López de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popilcan team, the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and Kotsumos, the actions of the promotement of Tourism/Murderal Hornitz, 2019. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor, I ask you for a nominative item incorporated in the 2018 Budgets, approved by agreement of our political group with the Government, and which was also incorporated in the Budget Prorogation Act for the year 2019, also by the agreement of our political group with the Basque Government. The departure is Tourism/commercial promotion actions-Mercado Abastos Vitoria- Gasteiz, 200,000 euros. When the target entity of the game contacted the Department back in March 2019, the answer was: "Forget about the game, we need the money for other goals that the Department prioritizes outside the Budget Prorogation Act 2019; you seek life, choose the Department's orders if you fit them." I would remind you that this is an item that comes from a budgetary agreement, because this Government, as I said to you, did not have a majority and for budgets, projects and budgets to come out in this case, because it needs agreements, and this item is there because it was incorporated by the agreement. Administered people must comply with the laws. The Government exercises its will to carry them out. They never had an interest in tourism-commercial promotion for markets and never included any items for this type of promotion, now they have included it by 2020. Asked there for June for the departure, it turns out to be intended for tourism-commercial promotion in various markets of Euskadi through the Basque Culinary Center, with star chefs and local product. Part of that game was going to go to the Vitoria market, as the game says. After time, and arrived early in November, nothing at all. Asked the market of the Bretxa, that of the Ribera of Bilbao and that of Vitoria, they had a call from the Basque there, long ago, that do not remember very well some. While Basque did not have much knowledge of what was going to be a program and some of the markets, some said that the call did not make any specifics and that others explained that the actions proposed to them were difficult to fit into their space. Both the Bretxa and the Ribera have requested a meeting with the Directorate of Commerce and have not been attended. They say Saturday starts with the promotion of markets. Madam Councilwoman, of the €200,000 of the game, how much is it going to allocate to promoting markets? Why aren't they participating or don't seem to be participating last week? I don't know what's happened these days in the Ribera, Vitoria and Bretxa. In which market is the promotion going to be made? What budgets do they have for each market? What actions will be developed? When did they present the shares? When have they communicated this program to the markets? What planning do they have for this promotion and in which markets?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In reply, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u109	Eskerrik asko, president. Mrs López de Ocariz, indeed, in the case of Vitoria's supply market, this department has collaborated in concrete dynamism projects, such as the launch of the website or the guided tours programme throughout 2018, in fact, for an amount of 200,000 euros. In 2019, I remind you, extended budget, there was no agreement. It is simply an extended budget, there is no obligation to implement the budget line. We have been talking about this game on several occasions, as you have mentioned, and where we told you that we wanted to develop concrete actions not only in one market, but in all markets. In Euskadi we have 25 supply markets, 14 of them in Bizkaia, 8 in Gipuzkoa and 3 in Alava. We regard traditional markets as an indispensable element for the commercial articulation of our cities and towns. That is why, indeed, in this 2019 financial year and throughout the 2020 financial year, we are going to develop a series of promotion and dynamism actions. In particular, tomorrow, as you have rightly mentioned, we are presenting at the press conference the programme of activities and promotion in the markets for supplies, called Merkatutik Sukaldera. We will carry out a series of cooking and showcooking workshops Therefore, as I was saying, from the Department we consider supply markets as one of our great commercial and tourist resources, so it is important to think of all markets and not to stick with stocks in just one of them. It is vital for their survival to strengthen them as a brand, with coordinated actions and, above all, sustained in time. Therefore, in addition to these concrete actions of dynamism, I can also announce that the markets, since the next year, will be included in the bases of order, precisely, of entrepreneurship. And that we have already begun to integrate them, at the initiative of the Department itself, into the Gastronomic Euskadi Product Club, with the possibilities of networking and promotion that this entails. Therefore, the shares are not one, they are several, it is a whole, several of them to develop in time and not only in a market, but in the totality of the markets, which as I told you are 25 in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u111	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for copying to the People's Group an initiative that seems fantastic to us, and for extending it to the whole of Euskadi. That's very good for us. But I asked him about the campaign they're going to announce tomorrow that they haven't communicated to the markets. Today, they have no knowledge. Do you think that's normal? Do you think it's normal, November 15th? Do you think it's normal? It's not normal. It's not normal, and every market has its programming. Do you know what markets are dedicated to? Do you know what they do? It is impossible to fit, probably, all the actions that you have programmed. Can you tell me the breakdown of the game today, counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u113	Thank you, President. Obviously, the markets are informed. As I was saying, tomorrow we present the project, there is all the programming, all the markets, all the cooks. Obviously, a project of this nature is articulated, planned and tomorrow, as I told you, we have the luxury of putting it into operation and also of making an appeal not only to the markets themselves and traders, but to the citizens in general, because it will be an event in which they will be able to enjoy. In addition, there is another initiative that I did not comment on earlier, but which is very important to us, and that is that also within the piloting of the product Responsible Purchasing Tourism in Euskadi, which we will deploy with the OMT, we will also include to the markets of supplies. We will also study a diagnosis, an analysis-diagnosis of the situation of each of the markets, because the realities are very different from each other, and with this we try to work and direct concrete actions and policies, adapting to the reality of each of them. Therefore, this will also enable us to work within this project of Responsible Purchasing Tourism with markets, our traditional markets, the first contact with the consumer, with local trade and especially with the local product and also our own farmers. Thank you very much, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of María del lópez de Ocariz López de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popula, made by Turism, commerce, and Kotsamo, about regularizing the practice of the guides of Eukadin tourism." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u115	Madam Counsellor, if we stick to the wording of the draft decree that has been on public display during the month of October, which says "From the register of businesses and tourist activities of Euskadi", it can hardly be imagined that the object of the decree also includes the regulation, for the first time, of the tourist guides of Euskadi, a milestone, we could say; such a regulation demanded by the sector, and why is it hidden in the wording of the decree? Madam Counsellor, why is this lack of transparency in the face of an almost historical fact? In this autonomous community, in 2019, the activity of tour guides has been regulated for the first time. We think he deserves special attention. I don't know if you know, but in case I do. When the Tourism Act, adopted and processed in 2006, was drafted, there was no mention of the Euskadi tourism guide sector for the drafting, especially of Title V, "On tourism activity", or article 64, "On tourism guides". The sector showed its discomfort, and they were told that "the important thing is the regulation and there you will participate". Well, neither. Nor have they been called for the regulation for the elaboration of this draft decree, draft decree that is exposed to public information without having the sector, without informing the sector, and of which the sector is aware by an article in press: "Euskadi will regulate for the first time the activity of the tourist guides". This blew up the sector's alarms and they quickly began to work in order to be able to present allegations to the draft decree in time and form. It is true that, at the end of the period of public provision, the Government is notified to the Tourist Office to notify the sector of the draft decree. And I ask, what does this issue have to do with the Tourist Office? The Basque Government has a list of tourist guides, a direct way of contact, and it is really difficult to understand the method they use. Madam Counsellor, why has the sector not been included in this whole process? What criteria will they apply when responding to allegations or suggestions? Do you believe, Madam Counsellor, that this draft decree complies with the commitment made by all the Autonomous Communities and the Ministry to harmonize as far as possible the autonomous rules on tourism guides, and to ensure minimums that guarantee market unity? How will those guides who, prior to the entry into force of the decree, have been exercising the activity of guidance be enabled?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In reply, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u117	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. In the past legislature, the Tourism Act was in fact passed, which indicates that the activity of tourism guide is of free benefit, except in those elements that are integrated within the cultural heritage of the Basque Country, for which the authorization will be necessary. Once the law had been passed, a decree had to be drawn up regulating the exercise of that activity. The deadline for receiving contributions from citizens has expired on 29 October, but this is a process of public consultation prior to the procedure for drawing up the draft decree. After that period more than a dozen contributions have been submitted, which will logically be studied with a view to the elaboration of this decree. Also, on 26 November, that is, 26 of this month, a meeting is convened with the sector, precisely, to receive its contributions to this decree. When all of them are analysed, we will follow the order for the beginning of the procedure for drawing up the standard and, in the course of this procedure, a first draft decree will be drawn up, as I say. The content of this first text will obviously take account of the sector's point of view, as it cannot otherwise be, and of the study of the current autonomous rules. The procedure for drawing up the decree implies a new phase of public hearing and the communication of the text to the representative entities of the tourism guides, so that they and any other interested person can submit allegations that will be taken into consideration and answered individually. Therefore, the objective is a regulatory framework that allows the development of the profession, to do so with guarantees both for the professional who performs it and for the user of the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u119	Madam Counsellor, indeed, we believe that it is time, the opportunity to make a regulation that puts our guides on an equal footing with the foreign guides who come here from other autonomous communities or from other countries that visit us. We have a staff in the very valuable guide sector, which brings quality to tourism. That's why they've been there for years; otherwise, they wouldn't be sued and they wouldn't be there. It's very important to take care of him and keep him. We're surprised that in the project, that at this beginning of the document, call it whatever you want, but we think they had to have been consulted, they can't find out about this by a newspaper headline. I think they were already, as I said, relegated when the bill and the development of the law were carried out, and we believe that they should be taken into account, because, as I say to you, they are the basis and a very important baggage. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, we must make a project where there is a clear definition of what we want to achieve, what will be the exercise of the profession, the quality of the service, the qualifications, the professional recognition, the obligations, the sanctioning regime for those who do not comply... There are a number of conditions that need to be made clear, and the document that you have submitted lacks all of this. It's not, it's just... nor do the guides appear, nor do they appear. Therefore, I think it is right that they should renew this situation, that they should attend to the sector, that they will finally meet on the 26th and that they should follow the decrees, like other autonomous communities. I have looked only at socialist communities, I have not looked at others and, of course, nothing to do with what you have proposed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u121	Thank you. Thank you, President. Mrs López de Ocariz, it is not a question of bringing anything back, transparency is total and we are at a very very preliminary, very initial, very incipient stage. What happens is that the procedure now obliges us to do – which is fine, which must also be so – a public consultation prior to the start of any procedure. We are precisely at the stage where we need to talk to the sector and we are talking to the sector and, in fact, as I have said, I have given you a very concrete account of a meeting already convened with all the representatives of the sector. With this, nothing has started to be done without the sector and without its contributions, as it cannot be otherwise. It is a decree, in the end, where what we have to put into value is the figure of the authorized guide and for this, well, it has begun to address this regulation that was determined by the Tourism Law, and we will do it by the hand of the sector, as it cannot be otherwise, or by any other procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Edurne García Wrembe together by the lawmate of Podemos to the head of the Security department, about the intervention of Araluce of the Igor. " Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u123	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, as you already know, Araluce de Igorre belongs to the BATZ group in Mondragon and is engaged in the manufacture of changeovers for the industry, and is currently experiencing difficulties for its continuity. Its 141 workers and the region of Arratia have the threat of liquidation of the company, the threat of industrial dismantling, and what is more worrying, the threat of dismissal and unemployment. Workers ask to postpone closure to obtain investors or relocation to other cooperative companies. To that end, they called for a strike and mobilized. But management rejects these solutions, wants to impose closure, reducing workload and trying to withdraw products and assets. Not only that, but the liquidating lawyer, accompanied by individuals from the BATZ group, presented themselves at the workplace with a communication of closure of the premises on 8 November and early in the morning. In this intervention, with night and lightness, and accompanied by the Ertzaintza, they tried to take materials and machinery, as reported by the unions, while the workers tried to prevent it. A disproportionate deployment, which continued the following morning in the presence of workers trying to defend their jobs. Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, how does the performance of the Ertzaintza and that of your department justify in this context?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. García, it's hard for me to understand why you want to confuse the difficulties of certain companies and certain employees with a service which allows you to protect the rights of both sides and to guard the relationships between the two sides. The Ertzaintza is neither the origin, nor the middle, nor the end of this conflict, of this problem of business viability, of these contractual issues and of the labour relations underlying the issue of this conflict that Ertzaintza came to. I do not know whether you or your group can or do have any chance to resolve this conflict, to intervene to help solve the problems that the company and the workers involved have raised. But what I can assure you is that the Department of Security, nor the Ertzaintza, nor the Department of Security, nor the Ertzaintza have competence in this matter, and of course they have no chance of accessing a solution to this problem. The only thing that the Ertzaintza did on 8 November in Igorre, between the one and a half, indeed, of the morning, which is the time when the presence of the Ertzaintza was required, and about the 12 noon of the following day, when the parties agreed to an exit to that situation that had been provoked, was to avoid – I insist – problems of security, problems of confrontation and problems of public order. That is the only reason and the only intervention the Ertzaintza had on 8 November in Igorre. To prevent the conflict and the defence of the interests and rights of the parties involved from leading to confrontations that could end in a public order problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u126	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u127	Thank you, Madame's head of the table. Counselor, you are responsible for Ertzaintza. I ask you the questions and you're the one who has to justify an act that obviously was disproportionate. As I was saying, the withdrawal of assets from a company in liquidation, which, according to you, was closed. The company wasn't closed. In this country there is freedom of association and the right to strike, which allow workers' representatives access to the facilities. The law, including the Criminal Code, precludes actions that result in the illegal decapitalization of a company that could harm labour rights. But in addition to all this, the employer closure decreed by BATZ is not justified, it is illegal, according to the unions and the Labour Inspectorate, and yet you decided to accompany the company, and not the workers. There is another issue that we have not just understood, and it is their lack of coordination with the Department of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate itself. When its department and the Ertzaintza accompany the company's actions, the Department of Labour was not aware of any employer closure, and on the other hand, this business decision jeopardizes the continuity of the activity if goods are withdrawn or the operation of the machinery is altered. We assume that the same kind of coordination will have had with Mrs Tapia's department, with her industrial policy in defense of the industry of Igorre and Arratia. We also see and have been watching how much zeal is placed in defending the interests of one side, those of the employer, a corporate management belonging to a group based in Mondragon. And, on the other hand, the rights of the workers, the trade unions, the people of Igorre and the region of Arratia, who are suffering constant blackmail with the threat of closure, are not being defended. There are legal instruments, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, which support a different performance from that carried out by her department on 8 November. You have no excuse for this. They are listed: freedom of association, right to strike and right to work. Rights that are being threatened and whose violation is a crime, and must be protected. Whose side is the Ertzaintza? This is the question, and that is what you have to answer to me, as the ultimate responsible. We wonder if your department would act in the same way if, suppose, a collective of workers or a trade union calls the Ertzaintza to avoid a decapitalization by illegal exit of property from a company, which may be a crime of unfair administration against creditors and workers, or if sabotage actions are committed against machinery caused by a company to justify its closure. Would your department act the same? Would you send the Ertzaintza to defend the economic and labour rights of women workers? The Ertzaintza should be to protect the rights of all and on November 8, Mrs Beltran de Heredia, it was not so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u129	Mrs García, you have had the opportunity to listen to the Economic Development Counsellor, to listen to her that the Government has worked and is working and will continue to work on viable actions and solutions in this case, in these conflicts and in others that exist. But I insist, you're confused. It is not the competence of this department, nor of the Ertzaintza, nor to judge or take sides by any of the parties involved in the defence of labour, economic, corporate, internal or external rights. No company. It is not the responsibility of the Ertzaintza to take part. Its responsibility is to ensure compliance with the law, to ensure the rights and freedoms of each and every person, in the case of conflict, in this case for the rights and freedoms of all persons involved. When on the morning of November 8 the Ertzaintza became aware of a possible conflict between workers and managers of the company, it did what it had to do; that is, to go there, to send devices to see how the situation was in situ. The conduct of the border was constantly directed to protect the security of persons and fortunes, without any attitude towards one or the other, to protect the rights and liberties of all. Pertsion, under the conditions prescribed by the law, and also confirms the right of protesting. Always that. Defending the rights and freedoms of each and every person.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u130	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To question, Josu Estarrona Elizdo, the parliamentary member of the Society of the Union, made to the Chief of Work and Justice, "when public order, public security, or national security are in danger of receiving digital communication services." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u131	Yes, thank you, and this question is also favorable to the protection of public security and the freedom and basic rights of all, because the digital coup of the state, digital 155, digital mordaza, has been baptized in this way, the decretum of the government of Pedro Sánchez. Industrial communication, digital services, Internet, will be able to take over the Government from now on without any legal order. What's this supposed to do? "When public order, public security, or national security are in danger," says the decree. And these are subjective, abstract, and indeterminate concepts, as many juris have expressed and observed, with the danger of interpretation. That's why, Mrs. San José, the Chief of Justice, we're asking you to agree to your government, the Euskah, with 14/2019 Decree supported by the Spanish Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u132	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. My God, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mr Estarrona, I understand that you are asking me this question not in relation to the powers I exercise, but as a member of the Basque Government. In addition, I am asked whether I share the content of a decree-law approved by the Government of Spain. I'm going from the global scope of the measure, trying to escape the possible confusion that can be given by taking a part as a whole. The argument and content of the decree-law is very broad and part of a finding such as the threat to the rights and security of citizens posed by the illegitimate use of new technologies. In particular, it is intended to ensure public security, both in relations between different public administrations when processing personal data, and between citizens and public administrations when the latter collect, process and store personal data in the exercise of a public function. Your Honor, I hope that you, like me, share the objective of the decree-law that your data and mine and those of the people we represent are not arbitrarily used by the public administrations, and that not all companies that subcontract or provide services to the public administration do so. I hope that we also share that just as money should not be in tax havens, our data should not be manipulated and used for what is not foreseen from digital havens. In addition, the Royal Decree-Law provides – as it could not otherwise be – to intervene in the event that someone who, be it administration, enterprise or private person, claims to commit a crime, is always subject to judicial guardianship. This is the true and broad sense of the decree-law to which you refer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u134	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u135	Of course, I share, Madam Counsellor, many of the issues that you have listed here, but what I do not share is that all this can be done without a prior court order, and that the Government can do so directly. Because this reminds us a lot of the Patriot Act. A law that was not even endorsed by the U.S. Senate, which was highly criticized by international actors, but which served President Bush – at that time the friend of the Aznar war, now that there is so much talk of the aznarization of politics – to do and undo as he wanted, and we already know what he accomplished, jumping above all fundamental civil, political and human rights. Well, the government in office of the Socialist Party – of its party – in the middle of the electoral campaign, five days after the elections and the process of parliamentary control, has launched a legal device that reminds too much of the Patriot Act. But this is just another symptom. A symptom more as a consequence of the grave and deep and sustained political crisis in which the State is plunged. One more observation of the re-centralisation and involution in democratic terms, and another more evidence of the democratic anomaly that the Kingdom of Spain is experiencing and that it is unable to break with the previous dictatorial regime, and that, far from offering formulas in solution of democratizing parameters, what it proposes are coercive and totalitarian or neo-totalitarian measures, as it proposed today and this morning was spoken of by Mr Lehendakari, who spoke of neo-totalitarianism. He added that the best way to deal with it is to continue to deepen the self-government and development of our competences. Well, in this decree, moreover, this decree has that addition, and it is that we are facing a clear competitive invasion. We think, we think, that we must take measures, ma'am, in front of this new attack, 155 digital, but before the Araba, Bizia, and Gipulan government made or started, we wanted to know first what it is that's about this decree and whether it's on behalf of this decree or against it. For this decree is not Vox, PPk, or Ciudadnos, but a decree which has been set forth by the Party Sociallist, and by the way it has set forth. Because we and we do not want to have a government, a Basque government in this case, in which there are parties that take such coercive measures that go against the most basic fundamental and civil and political rights.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u136	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u137	Mr Estarrona, I think you are falling into the mistake that I warned you of in my first intervention. You are analyzing the scope of this decree law from a reductionist perspective and loaded with apriorisms and value judgments that are not supported by a more comprehensive analysis. I am noting that you are not really concerned that the data we provide to the administration will be used fraudulently. You have already decided that websites will be closed without justification. You have already ruled that the decree runs counter to initiatives that could be taken for State autonomy. Well, in my view, if the Government of that autonomy intended to use the data of the citizens who work in its possession for unintended purposes, i.e. fraudulent, the provisions contained in the decree-law would effectively prevent it, the same would happen if the right-wing party had access to such personal data, to theirs, to mine and to use them for ideological, political, origin or race selection or sexual orientation by attacking frontally the diversity and freedom of persons. In what I am not going to enter, Mr Estarrona, it is in votes that correspond to other instances, such as the Congress of Deputies, and it is the position that the Congress of Deputies will have, which according to the law has a deadline for its validation. Nor about any resources that may be available. I remain with what is most important, which is to safeguard the freedom and security of citizens, to prevent my data, yours and those of all people from being used fraudulently. I invite you to analyze it from this perspective, and I am sure that we will share the true value of the Royal Decree Law 14/2019 of 31 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-15.u138	Thank you, Mrs. San José. As we have exhausted the list of subjects, I end the gathering. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-three.
