ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u0	Good morning. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, I inform you 16th. that the point has been abandoned for another reason. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Kermanbe Eribe Péritifs of the Society to the chief physician of the Medical Department, "On the rating of the Arts on the public offering of 2016-7." Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, good morning, chief of departments, and members of the legislature. It appears that we have discussed this Chamber a hundred times in the course of the past few months, even during the whole meeting, but also at the committee, and that it is connected with it by the interrogation of its own initiative, or by a report, of his office, a study, which he introduced and made several reflections on it. What we would have liked to know was, from these recommendations, what the Medical Department, in this case, makes these recommendations about those ratings, and how the head physician of the Medical Department has expressed more than once, with the will of the Medical Department, with the possibility of ending this public offering with all its guarantees. And in advance, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u2	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u3	Mr. President, Mr. President, members of the legislative class, chief of departments, Mr. Orbegis, good morning to all of you. In answer to your question, I'll tell you we're grateful for our reports from the Arda. We have read with all attention the report announced by the interrogator, and, if we are to wait for a profound legal examination, we accept the measures proposed for the next LEP of Osar. In fact, we're willing to expand a few measures and to improve them. The Department of Health and Osakidetza appreciate the recommendations made by Ararteko and share the objective of improving future public employment opportunities. After analysing the report, we appreciate its content. Once the relevant legal analysis has been carried out, we are committed to including your contributions in the proposal that Osakidetza is evaluating. In this regard, I would highlight some relevant conclusions of the report. One, collaboration, transparency and the degree of information offered, both by the VATP and by Osakidetza, which, in the textual words of the report, "has been complete and full". Two, the report does not question the operational bases on which the public offer of employment was organized and carried out, a basis agreed with the trade unions. Three, the report highlights the measures promoted by the Department of Health and Osakidetza to clarify suspicions of irregularities and to complete the OPE with guarantees. Four, the report assesses and considers useful the psychometric studies as well as the report of proposals for new measures by Professor Jiménez Asensio. In fact, he states in text that psychometric reports have made the decisions of those responsible for Osakidetza have a reasoned and reasoned basis and defines Professor Jiménez Asensio's report as a series of proposals and recommendations textually of undeniable value and interest. We fully assume the need to discuss among the actors involved the improvement measures for a process as complex as the selection and provision of professionals. In the same vein, we understand the references made by the report to the temporality of employment, although the report does not provide any data to support this recommendation. While this was the subject of the Ararteko report, it is timely to recall that this Government and the previous one have made a clear commitment to public and quality employment. As far as Osakidetza is concerned, two public job offers have been convened, one in 2015 and the other in 2017, with 4,535 places in all categories. We have done everything possible since this is the maximum that allows the replacement rate set by the basic rules of the State. This will be the criterion to be maintained in the future: making the most of the legal replacement rate. Because of the next LEPs, our will is to improve our will to each other, and to preserve the transfer we have hitherto had. Our purpose is to unite all officers to make and propose a new pattern. We are in compliance with the commitments made to this Parliament. On 5 February, last Tuesday, the Board of Directors of Osakidetza approved the restructuring of the Human Resources Directorate by setting up a specific and permanent unit for the selection of staff. We will present the model with the proposals to improve future OPEs in due course, and we remain committed to completing the current public offer of employment with all guarantees. In short, we will continue to work to improve the public service that Osakidetza offers every day to Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u4	Thank you, chief physician. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, I've been asked by the Congressman of Maddalen Irñena, the President, the state of Christmas." Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u5	Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Urkullu. Good morning, everyone. On Tuesday, a reporter asked me, Mr. Urkullu, if the government had abandoned the law to complete the budgets would be a victory for the Basque Country. And I answered that if the people didn't win it was useless, it would start to change forms, start to make politics, but that if they didn't change the contents there might be little to celebrate. Without having the ability to form the majority in a minority, what I would like to ask you is how you see the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u7	Ma'am of the Basque Parliament, members of the Parliament, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. And Mrs. Irriart, I know better than I know that Eukkok's running in a minority. It's not news. I've been running a minority for over six years. We're in trouble, no doubt. And it may be a problem, from a point of view, that the budget had to be pushed back in December last year. But generally, it's a better state of society, and the Eusk0's going to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u9	It's true, it's not nobetality to rule in a minority because that's the way you decided, Mr. Urkullu. You made a bet of liquid politics when this country needed solid leadership, because it was probably more comfortable, because it was probably easier. But you decided to govern with the Socialist Party by PP, and the Spanish Government continued to treat the same society as Royce. So that deal was no big deal. They assure you that not even in 2020 will the Statute of Gernika be fulfilled and you are shown as enchanted and enchanted, instead of putting on the table the imperative need for an equal to equal relationship with the Spanish State that collects the new status that we are working on, which you look at profile. In two and a half years of this law the terrible antidemocratic situation has been living in the state of Spain, and in front of it, in the presence of the trial in Catalonia, we saw you again with a perfile, and sometimes with a wink at Madrid. I won't talk about Osamates, I won't talk about the retirement of the edge leaders, I'll talk about the budget. You've withdrawn the bill of law because you haven't been able to negotiate a serious negotiation, because you haven't been able to cut down the restrictions, and yet the year 2018 is over with the superabbita, the chief physician says, "parado van maldas." Mal dadas para agunos vien desde hace mucho tempo. It has weighed more than the welfare of the citizen, Mr. Urkullu, to seek to demonize the Basque Country. In his balance he has weighed more the obsession against Euskal Herria Bildu than the needs of the citizenry. They have preferred to run out of budgets for pure electoral calculation. And if anyone doubted that when you introduced another law, you tried to make a tragaa again, and didn't negotiate anything, but didn't negotiate with the Basque Country, not that I know it and not that I know it, and that I've heard it with anyone else. Heinera, you're out of line with the Bakarrarekin lektura empezinatuta. You are precluding yourself from continuing with the single reading, without having prior agreements. He was asking us this week to position ourselves. He does not ask us to stand, Mr Urkullu, he asks us to tell him what we are going to vote for. If we are going to vote yes, if we are going to vote no, or abstention. To stand is to give the opportunity to say before this topic what Euskal Herria Bildu proposes. And you know what Euskal Herria Bildu proposes. He knows that we agree with the salary increase of the public workers, we do not agree to keep the cuts for the families who need it most. We do not agree with the pension cuts, and you know it. We have told him over and over again, that we do not want cuts, that we want the law to be enforced. Do you remember when Patxi López made these murrizketak The Basque People collect the seguiendo propestas. We have new options, it's the time of new opportunities, but I'll tell you, too, that it's time for new cares. And I think it's possible if he negotiates. Before the revolution of Spain and the weakness of the European Union, there is a task. Erabaki.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irrie, I believe your explanation has been, in a way, to explain yourself inside your house, we all know how it was two years ago, the negotiation to choose the formula of legislation. Which ones forced you to not negotiate with the Jestric Party. Or who forced you not to negotiate with the Jeltian Party? And you know better than I do, Mrs. Irrez, you, the head of the Treasury and the Ogas Department, and I, the three of us, at the meeting here in December, what we talked about our budgets. You've asked me to rate the situation, Mrs. Iriart. I am convinced that the state of society and the economy and employment of the family is better than six years ago. We have more support for society's protection, more support. Six years ago, we spent two-thirds of our budget for social policy. Today, we're almost three-quarters of the budget. We have a family support program and we invest more money. Six years ago, the economy situation was very difficult, I don't know if you remember, but we were in reverse at that moment. Now Esscal economy grows and that growth is strong. Six years ago, unemployment climbed up and up. At that moment, only 875,000 people colonized, now 953,000 people colonized it. He's getting more and more employment. We have no doubt problems, but in general, as we said before, the state of euscal society is better. Listen to you, Mrs. Irritart, I have a clear conclusion. I mean, the state of society and families is not your priority. Your priority is the state of the government. Your only aim and wish is to emphasize the weakness of government. I have heard from you that it will be more and more difficult for us to advance our proposals in this parliament. That's the only chance we can agree with EH Collectorus and Podemos and Popular Party to be that way, Mrs. Iriart. The action of this Government goes beyond what is reflected in the parliamentary debate. The executive action is based on a programme, strategic plans, and the management of more than EUR 11.5 billion, in a responsible and effective manner, to respond to country challenges and objectives. This is our priority. His delegation stressed that the Government was in a parliamentary minority. It's true, and we know it. Indeed, nothing has changed within the Government in the past two years. Our door is always open. Yesterday, this was shown, because despite being in a minority and having warned us of the impossibility of pacts, the reality is, however, that it is possible to reach agreements. We're going to keep working on those agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martini, made together by the Congress of the Podemos to the president, the consequences of the budget being prolonged." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u13	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Lehendakari jauna, zure Gobernuak bi philabeteetan bi porrot izan ditu: a budget extension and the withdrawal of the initial proposal from the law of urgent measures, both because of the government's lack of capacity to negotiate and seek support for its proposals among the opposition. How will the Lehendakari and his Government deal with the negative consequences of an extension of the budget in view of these failures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, I appreciate the interest you're showing around the ancients. Anyway, I'm sure it'll look up and move on with a new measure, with all the options that's offered us on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u17	Mr. President, we've always been interested in the premiers. Lehen entzun told the Egyptian buruz hitz. We've heard him talk about deals, as if by mentioning them he can get one around the corner. They were unable to reach any agreement by putting forward continuous and anti-social budgets, which they did not like either their preferred partner, the People's Party, and were engaged in extending the 2018 accounts. Last weekend, the Government was self-proclaimed by the agreement, when they had demonstrated their inability to reach any, and yet they had shown a great deal of pre-potence by introducing a law of urgent measures, which not only addressed the increase in the salary of officials, but also wanted to sell us a cat for hare. I say this to you because we have already publicly shown our willingness to support the 2.25 increase to the civil service in early January. It could have been done by now. However, they preferred to take public workers as hostages in order to try to take other measures without attempting the agreement and only based on the imposition. What is this for you? What is an agreement for you? Order and command? An agreement, Mr Lehendakari, is a joint decision and that is what your Government lacks. Now, trying to correct his meddling, they have raised or proposed a law divided into three and, with no self-criticism, they want citizens to think that it is the opposition that has to carry out their bills. They again show that they are an irresponsible government, that they play with the interests of many families and also use officials as hostages, without seeking any consensus or agreement. But we, Elkarrekin Podemos, are going to act responsibly before this, so that this comes forward at once, with the responsibility with which the Government has not acted. That's why, next Thursday Elkarrekin We can be useful to the people of this country, because we are committed to improving people's lives. So I'm telling you that we're going to make the employee's salary increase, by our abstention, of those thousands of people who make Euskadi work. It is of justice that you regain your purchasing power and yet it is neither fair nor necessary for you to raise your wages. That is why we abstain. We will also make it possible, with our critical abstention, to increase the GIR, because we are not going to impede the reversal of the 7 % cut, but we still consider it essential that reference be made to the SMI again. The people in Euskadi deserve to be assured that, whatever happens, they can count on the contribution of the institutions. We have the opportunity to discuss this also when we bring our proposal before which everyone will have to stand, with the reversal of the full cut. Finally, we cannot support the increase in concerts until the free teaching in the concerted school is guaranteed. Lehendakari, once again it has had to be the opposition that imposes wisdom on the Government. Let me give you a piece of advice: Put the tricks aside and start negotiating broad and cross-cutting agreements, as you like to say, because if not the only thing you will prove is that you do not know, nor can you rule in a minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, it's a pity when we introduced you to the budget project and gave you the opportunity to answer with a negative, and the negotiation was an engagement, Mr Martínez. It's one thing that the budget project doesn't answer all your goals, and I don't really want to tell you either, but I can't understand the fact that I'm refusing to talk and negotiate like you did, Mr Martínnez. When we have seen the uncomprehending fact that you have only maintained this attitude here, whether in Spain or in Navarro you have studied and negotiated the projects of the budget, Mr Martín, and accepted them, even if they are not yet accepted. I'll tell you again what you know better than you know, our budget plan was more social and our budget will be more social. I would like to remind you that I already warned that the budget extension was not going to be a drama, and it is not going to be. We will put forward all possible measures, because we have a higher revenue budget than the 2018 Budget. The regulation of the extension, in Title IX of the Budget Regime Act, allows for the development of public policies. Mr. Martinez, do you know the parliamentary process? Do you really know the parliamentary technique? Do you know and respect the reports of the House's lawyers, Mr Martínez? Look, the first step has been to process three bills of urgent measures in order to solve some problems, fulfilling what are the prerogatives or powers of the Government, and following the rules of procedure of the Basque Parliament, Mr Martínez. We have proposed to Parliament to increase the salaries of staff serving the public sector. How is it that you're going to abstain because you don't like us raising our wages? And you? What about you, Mr. Martinez? Yeah. We have proposed to improve the allocation to the University, update the models of educational concerts and increase the amount of income guarantee income, especially in a complementary way for the most needy pensioners. A second measure will allow the budgetary allocation of grants programmes, as well as the expenditure and investments already committed for 2019 in previous years to be adjusted. The third measure allows for budgetary adequacy to implement all the projects necessary for the development of departmental public policies not covered by the extended budget. The financing of these measures, Mr Martínez, will be carried out on the basis of the contributions planned for this exercise or by means of cash balances, in accordance with the legal regulation of the extension scheme. In short, we will take all measures to further improve the services we offer to citizens and, in addition, continue to promote economic recovery and the generation of quality employment opportunities. Our aim is to ensure that the effects of the budget extension do not adversely affect citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, that Alexia Castelo de sa Euscalia, Socialists have made to the Chief of Work and Justice, the organization, rules, and conduct of prisons." Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u21	Thank you. Good morning, everyone, egun on guztioi. The Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country provides that the organization, regime and functioning of institutions, prisons and social reintegration institutions is one of the competences to be assumed by the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. The government programme of this legislature includes the complete completion of the content of this pending transfer. The change in the Spanish Government has led to the meeting of the Joint Transfer Commission at the end of last year, which has not done so for seven years, thus ending a drought situation in terms of transfers. On 22 January, we recall that the Government of Spain confirmed its intention to continue the development of self-government in the terms established by our Statute, following the doctrine of the Constitutional Court in relation to outstanding cases. The Socialist Group, as it has been defending in this House repeatedly, believes that it is very good news that the channels of dialogue between the two administrations are normalised in order to continue the successful path that began in Euskadi 40 years ago and that the envisaged channel, which is not other than the Joint Transfer Commission, is used to resolve the technical issues that make transfers possible. As I have told you, our Statute is clear in this regard, and it is therefore more than striking that this transfer has been questioned and that it has been intended to make interpretations totally alien to the literality of our Statute of Autonomy. Last Friday, Madam Counsellor, as you well know, a delegation from this House was able to visit the Zaballa prison and we were able to see how it is being worked in a coordinated way between the officials who are still dependent on the State administration and those who are dependent on the Autonomous Administration, because it must be remembered that this is the case since 2011, when a then socialist government in Basquedi and socialist in the State consolidated a model of coordinated management in the areas of health, education, work guidance, reintegration and punishment management, which favors that objective that marks our legislation today. And personally, during the visit, I thought about and verified the commitment of these officials and how they have turned to getting those who have committed crime, when they serve the sentences imposed on them by the courts, to be able to reintegrate. And also, the truth is, I thought of the contempt, the harassment, the insult, the kidnapping and even the murders that have suffered, and I thought of what such unjust reasons were and feigned those who killed and supported them. And I thought, as the Socialists think, that this work that public employees of penitentiary institutions are doing, now in a coordinated way and in the future in an integrated way, some question them with arguments that have nothing to do with this transfer, twisting, if necessary, what our Statute says. Mrs San José, we know that your department has been working on this forecast, because you have already brought it to us on several occasions in this House, and on this you know that we will soon be discussing a full monograph on prison policy. That is why my group believes that it is an opportune moment for the Labour and Justice Councillor, who is at the head of the department which will take over the matters relating to prison management, to give us a first assessment of the confirmation of this negotiation and to give us her views on the scope of this transfer of competence. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, señora Castelo. Good morning, everyone. As a member of this Government, I am pleased that it is finally possible to establish a channel of loyal dialogue between the central and Basque administrations in order to improve our self-government, and to do so on the basis of legal certainty, taking into account the constitutional doctrine and our statutory provisions. It is a will that the two formations that signed the governance agreement made clear in November 2016, which unfortunately has not been able to materialize so far due to the lack of receptivity of the previous government of Spain and which is now going to be possible. There has never been such a precise public commitment, and I believe it has immense political value, which responds to what citizens have been demanding of us: the practice of dialogue to resolve political differences, and to do so from security and respect for the law. With regard to the transfer on which you ask me, Mrs Castelo, I say to you that the Department of Labour and Justice is prepared to assume these new management powers under the terms laid down in the Statute. Since my first appearance in this House, I made it clear that one of the issues to which we were going to focus was to make a definite diagnosis of the reality of our prisons, what their needs are and what model we wanted to put in place with the new tools that we were going to have at our disposal. To that end, we have had the invaluable assistance of experts in this field, whom I thank for their work. It is important to know what skills are needed for. In this case, we want them to complement a model of comprehensive prison management, which works for the social reintegration of persons convicted of any crime; that those who have jumped the rules and been deprived of their liberty and serve their sentence in this community, assume their responsibility and the damage caused. For our part we will put the means so that they can complete an itinerary that allows them to reintegrate into society. We are not going from scratch, because, as you have rightly said, Mrs Castelo, we have successful experiences developed from the competences assumed so far, our juvenile justice system, even with the marked differences between one system and another, is a reference. On the other hand, the agreement signed in 2011 between the then Councillor of Justice, Idoia Mendia and the Secretary of Prison Institutions, Mercedes Gallizo has allowed us to be the only autonomous community apart from Catalonia, which manages all the penalties and measures of the open environment. To this end, we created the Basque Penis Management Service, which has provided us with a clear idea of what we can and should do to succeed in the goal of getting Euskadi to reduce its prison population and improve non-recidivism ratios. Gakoa or awareness and awareness programmes for road safety offences are good examples of this. The Constitution and the Statute of Gernika establish the framework of competence in which we will develop our work with the material and human means that are transferred to us, that is, the current ones. These days there are those who are questioning –because they denied it at the time – the convenience of this transfer. I can tell you that a crushing majority of Basque citizens consider the transfer of this competition to be positive. The penalties are imposed by the judges, they are the ones who make the decisions on the enforcement regime in each case. For our part, we will make available to you the tools necessary to fulfil the constitutional mandate of social reintegration. However, we will have an opportunity to delve further into this issue when the proposed full monograph is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u24	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Aranegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, a member of the Basque Office." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u25	Mr Lehendakari, how do you rate last year's employment data in the Basque Country?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I usually rate the trend normally and the trend is positive. It's the fifth consecutive year of growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u29	Indeed, we are in years of growth, we are in years of recovery. And I suppose you will appreciate it positively and then I give you the opportunity as always to hold a press conference in the answers to my questions. But I would also like to convey to you my concern, my concern, because we do have the lowest unemployment rate in Spain and we are creating jobs over the past year. The question is whether we are taking advantage of recovery to recover the levels we had before the crisis, or whether we are going to get that recovery to translate into that goal that cannot be another, from my point of view. It is true that in 2008 we had more than a million people employed in the Basque Country and today we are at 930,000 and that our rate of job creation is half that of the national average, we create 1.6 and the average in Spain is 3%. See if you think about what was going on in Euskadi before the crisis, then there were 39,715 RGI collectors, still today, even though we're down in number, we're at 55,000, so we're very far from pushing a pace that allows us to recover the well-being we've lost and to me that and you also have to worry about it. There are data that also worry me about the evolution of last year's employment. Employment in the private sector has been destroyed, and therefore the recovery of employment has been marked by a strong pull in the public sector. When we see the evolution of employment in the private sector we note with concern the decline in employment in industry as well, and a recovery in construction, but there is also a decline in industry. And some data that are amazing too. You know that at the three lowest levels of education employment is increasing, but at the highest level of education we are destroying employment in the autonomous community, and that 56% of the jobs created last year were occupied by foreigners, by foreign population, by immigrant population. They therefore account for just under 6% of the population employed in the Basque Country. I sincerely believe that we have a problem with the social model. You have been talking about the first economic and social measures you proposed this year and brought a bill here, and you were very concerned about their adoption. In the end, they have decided to cut the bill so that the opposition can cut its vote. You rule in cachos but you really also rule with a social model that we cannot share. Because of all the measures it has brought, at a cost of around EUR 247 million, they relate to measures directed at the public sector, which are dependent on the public sector. Of all its economic margin this year, it could be about EUR 600 million more, since this money has already been spent on this, it will issue less debt. It remains for you, I estimate no less than EUR 100 million to support something to the private sector that is suffering. Because our social model, when the sign is given is that the pay that is going to rise the most is that of the recipients of social assistance... we will update it and regain the purchasing power of public employees, but we do not take any action for a private sector that is shrinking and that is unable to generate employment, because that model is disincentived. And I ask you to make a turn and to make a turn in your economic policy and social policy, and to make a turn towards a more open policy and a clearly more liberal policy, to reduce taxes, to make it possible to start growing the number of entrepreneurs, because one more year in the Basque Country the number of self-employed fell. That is what I am asking you and that is my criticism, not blocking government action, but that you really bet on a social model that will make Euskadi more creative and less interventionist and dependent solely on the evolution of the public sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I have told you on some other occasion in a different way, today I say it to you in this way. Perhaps it would be advisable for you to meet Mrs Iriarte or Mrs Iriarte with you to contrast on the table what the social model this government has, because it is neither the social model of EH Bildu nor the social model of the People's Party. To see if they come to that point in common that they recognize that it is not the social model of either of them, it is the social model proper to this Government. In any case, look, I repeat the assessment of the trend and the trend, which is positive, I repeated it on the previous occasion, because I believe that, after the recession, it is necessary to stress that it is the fifth consecutive year of growth and sustained job creation in Euskadi. In 2018 the occupation has grown by 16,900 people and the unemployment rate has been 10.2%, according to EPRA data and I prefer to take this reference out of prudence, in relation to EPA data, which are somewhat more positive results. The evolution of persons who contribute to social security remains at a good pace. Five years ago we were at least 875,000 people and today we reach 953,000, not 930,000, Mr Alonso. It is true that the data for January have been negative, I have heard about saw teeth a few times, and we are going to see an upturn, but the trend is positive and the objective of reducing unemployment below 10% by 2020 is achievable. And my assessment is that if we add strength, we will move further towards a goal that we share. Look, we have a lot to do in creating jobs and improving the quality of jobs. You're talking about a twist. This year we will allocate EUR 297 million to the employment plan. We have six programmes under way: local development, 21 million; entrepreneurship, 22 million; youth employment, 35 million; training, 61 million; job integration, 76 million; and renewal plans, 84 million. And, in addition, we will invest 1,891 million euros in economic recovery, so this year we will allocate 650 million to investment, 430 million to innovation, 31 million to business internationalisation and 180 to industrialization projects, and 600 million to business endorsements. Our goal is to encourage 14,500 new jobs this year, an achievable goal. My assessment, therefore, is positive, above all because of an unquestionable reality. Achieving more and better employment is the priority objective for all the institutions, economic and social actors, businesses and Basque society as a whole. With this convergence with the objective and a shared strategy, we will be able to reduce unemployment below 10% by 2020. This is the commitment of the whole country and, of course, of the Government: to create more quality employment and to lay solid foundations for consolidating, worth redundancy, the employment of the future. Euscalal economic development is positive. For the past five years, we've been going back to the situation. Today, growth is strong and employment options are created. We're not satisfied and we have to continue to improve the quality of the job. That's right, I'm sure if we stick to our job and economic recovery program, we'll get unemployment down to 10 percent. That's our priority and purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. The sixth point in the theme list: "Interliberation, made by the members of the Casanova Alonso EH Collectation team to the president, about the new measures to which the leading challenges of the EAE should be appropriated." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u33	Good morning, everyone. Well, today I've come dressed in black, by chance, because some, according to their own terminology, today have celebrated their own Black Friday In 1962, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, President of the United States, represented a challenge. He said, before that decade was over, the United States would send a person to the moon. And then he said, "We chose to do this, not because it's easy, but because it's difficult." Mr. Urkullu, I won't ask you to send a Basque to space, I think the priors are different. But I'm asking you to look closely at your position. Because to mark difficult goals of attitudes, strategic aims, social forces, economics, politicians, and intellectuals must be marked by challenges to activate them. And when we see the targets your government marked for the law, we realize that your position is just the opposite, the opposite. You didn't choose these targets because they were difficult, because you marked the objectives of the law because they were easy. and some of them were already full. We'll talk about jobs now, when you marked the rate of unemployment below 10%, you didn't mark a challenge. This was a prediction, and all the experts said that this was the spirit. This was not a popular challenge, but a prediction. When I see the government structure that you dedicate to your employment policy, I think of an anecdote that was related by the late Pope Ratzinger. Before he was the Pope, he was a teacher of the University of German Ratisbonne. In this college there seemed to be two pieces of theology-facultate, and Ritzinger used to say that another professor of that university had once said to him: "This is a funny college, we have two faculty to learn something that doesn't exist." I am not going to enter theological question, but when I see the structure of your government, I say: Funny government, he's got two departments to handle a non-existent jobs policy. You did what answers to strange and political divisions, from one side of work and justice, and from another political division. But the results, though multiplied in structure, are wholly wanting. It is true, she is creating employment, low employment and low quality. There's a solution coming up here, just like it's going on in every advanced economy. Thanks to the inertia of the economic evolution and not to the most beautiful of all. The ends of the Department of Work and Justice are, on the one hand, health of labour, and, as we have known in this respect, the results are bad. There are employment stripters getting more and more. 15% went up last year, 37 workers died in the factory. Another purpose was to treat and improve social conversation and occupations, and to improve the results in this area. You've already created that sterile table of social conversation which was bad with the major unions. In the midst of public and social politics there were two great challenges, on the one hand the re-formation of the profession. The whole world was not working together, we may say, on one hand, that it was not made, and, on the other hand, all the authors opposed. And on income guarantee income we have to say that you have achieved something also meritorious and that is that you have ceased to be a guarantee, because you have unindexed them from any objective reference that implies precisely that, a guarantee. You have submitted, by removing this indexation, to the guarantee income to an annual auction, linking it to the budgets and unfairly putting in the eye of the hurricane, year after year, the socio-economically weaker sectors of this society. And it's true, unemployment is below 10%, but what you don't tell, as has been said before, is that everywhere the same unemployment is taking place in this economic cycle. And what you don't tell is that as to youth unemployment, we're the first to be the leaders in it, even in Europe and in long-continued unemployment, we're also leaders. And you don't count that these workers are losing the capacity of bribes, that their salary is the same or they're frozen. You don't say that the collective negotiation is exhausted and that when it's defended it's not about the initiative of this government, but because of the workers' fight. You don't tell us that a third of the workers have a temporary job, and a quarter of a time's work is no longer in search of. And then, if we look at statistics and polls, we see that young generations are naturally disappointed, because they think they will live worse than their parents, and we see how we have demographics. How do we want to have demographics on this work trade? I didn't come here to make a catastrophe. This country is a big country, in many ways, and it is also a strong country in socio-economic terms. Compared to the global context, it is one of the most developed economies in the world. Not everything is a catastrophe and not everything is a disaster, but, of course, we must make three observations which I believe are very clear. There are serious problems. Secondly, we are much worse than ten years ago; ten years ago the Basque Autonomous Community had 130% of the European average income, today we have fallen to 121. But we are not only worse than we were ten years ago, but, more importantly, we are far below the potential of this country. This country can aspire to much more, but for that it needs leadership, it needs ambition and someone capable of taking the helm and leading this country with a strategic vision for the future. From you and from your government, what we see is that you want to seduce society instead of healing problems, to install it in conformism and refuse to complete great challenges. The secret of the good progress or of the relative situation of the Basque economy in the global context mentioned earlier, despite the setback we are experiencing and the problems, which are obvious, is certainly not the management of the Basque Nationalist Party, it is the industrial base of our economy, that is what makes us generate greater added value and that is what makes us have a better relative position. But we also have very clear threats in that area. We have exports of which the first five products are products related to the automotive sector, a sector that is at the door of disruptive changes, both for reasons related to the energy transition, and for the emergence of new competitors and before that, Mrs Tapia, it is not worth a renewed plan, it is not worth improvising a renewed plan that is going to be activated a couple of months after the elections. No, no, In the face of this, strategic thinking is needed, because the sector on which our industry and our economy revolve is threatened by disruptive changes. We need to boost an industry, yes, but an advanced industry and industry in the Basque Country, today, only 60,000 of the people working in that industry are employed in sectors of high or medium technological value, of 200,000, 60,000, less than a third, and of them only 5% at the top of the table, the high sector, of the high technological component. R & D, and then I will come back because I will run out of time, R & D during your government, Mr Urkullu, this country's investment and investment effort in R & D has receded. We have moved from being above the European average to being frankly, clearly below that European average. I could continue to list a number of problems. We have a University of the Basque Country that, instead of being the jewel of this country's crown, is a begging order, that every year when budgets come it passes to its directors like this, to see if they can complete those budgets. Instead of being a pampered institution, it is an institution obliged to be always asking for budgets. We have Kutxabank, the protagonist of the biggest process of disinvestment in Basque industrial enterprises in the history of this country; we have 500 shops that close each year in the trade sector; we have companies like Euskaltel, which were created with public impulse and which are today being the subject of struggles between multinationals; we have a government that learned of the feminist revolution of March 8 by the press. We have a number of problems, but we have a legislature that has reached the equator. The equator has arrived. You have passed three laws – roads, ports and doping in sport – and two Budgets. It's been two years. Do you intend to spend the rest of the legislature like this? Do you intend to pass a blank legislature? You have relied on the Socialist Party and the People's Party. The People's Party, not for Mr Alonso's sake, but because it has been imposed on it since Madrid, has broken that alliance. Are you going to lead the changes this country needs? Are you going to look for the alliances this country needs? Or are you going to condemn this country to pass a blank legislature?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u34	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, I don't understand Black Friday. Anyway, the law business isn't just fun, Mr. Casanova, and I think this has to be made clear for the President of the Law, once and for all. I'm just saying that he accepts his legal projects in the government Council and turns them towards the parliament. I wonder how many members of the legislature are accepted in the legislature, whether you are going to have to ask yourselves. Challenges, measures, management, budgets, economy, choices. Welcome, Mr. Casanova. You show concern and interest about the hinges of our people. You show interest in the decisions which we've taken, manufactures, environments, education, or protection. I could say you're late, but I want to welcome you. To face these challenges is the end of our government from the first day, and not based on inertia or not of foresight, but upon them as a challenge. Our daily task is to manage public policies and take the most effective decisions. This country raises public policies, founded on the model of human growth and of permanent growth. And so far we haven't been with you. Welcome anyway, Mr. Casanova. I want to believe you changed your mind. I hear you worry about the international positioning, for example, of our country. I think the indicators on which you are based are not the updated indicators. Let me refer you to updating your indicators to the results of the current indicators. Because of the need to respond to the challenges facing us in the future, you tell me about employment, industry, the environment, education, the protection system; you tell me about public policies, the management of the resources we have, the measures and decisions to be taken; you tell me that our future international position will depend on the decisions that are taken today. Indeed, Mr. Casanova. Indeed. Similarly, our international position today depends on the decisions that this Government and the previous ones took yesterday and every day before. With regard to international positioning, I do not think I appreciate many differences between the European vision adopted by this Parliament in July last year and the content of the document Vision of the Future of Europe which the Government had approved in March. We share the concern about what we need to be in the European Union. The confluence with what we are doing at the international level from the Basque Government is evident. And I could say that to date we have not counted on your help or that you arrive a little late. But it's better late than never and I welcome you. I really want to believe in your change of attitude and I will introduce you to our model of sustainable human development, starting with a very immediate challenge: You mentioned the budget, and I'm going to start with budgets, not to look back, but I've had the opportunity to look back, you've got the opportunity to help people recover the power of buying for public administration employees, to ensure the protection of those who've got the most needed opportunity, to guarantee the income by means of income, even of pensions, and the opportunity to improve the social conditions of public education on a compact network, to help them improve public university. It's up to you to do something positive and precise for more than 150,000 families, we've made a $250 million proposal to complete these targets, now you're facing a test of credibility. I hope, and I hope you won't let that be wasted, I hope. You tell me that the budget is the main tool for the development of public policies and that action is needed to move forward. Well, okay, you have an unbeatable opportunity, the opportunity to do something positive and concrete for more than 150,000 families who will be able to receive an additional 250 million euros. These are new budgetary measures, put on the table by this Government as a tool for developing public policies. They have before them a credibility test. I hope and wish you won't miss it. You mentioned our government's inertia, its laws, its low profile, or a bad initiative. I want you to know, Mr. Casanova, that this government is governed from the first day, and in the first three months we presented a government program, publicly introduced, sent it to the legislature, and published the Opena on the doorstep to secure the citizens who had published it. This program is our public commitment, and we are not afraid of giving it to the people. From the start we accepted and wrote a social contract, clear and clear, total 150 commitments and 650 initiatives, names and surnames, that's all for one purpose. the model of the permanent human development is to continue to build the euphora pattern. Sustainable human development model, governance programme, accountability. You talk about inertia, mere management, low profile, little initiative. I am talking to you about 150 commitments adopted, 650 initiatives developed, tasks under way and new projects. I invite you to check on the Irekia website the 5,000 actions that the government departments have launched over the past two years. Social contract and public accountability. This is our model. We've been very clear where we want to go. We've defined a strategy, we've accepted the necessary plans, and we're doing it. That's how you rule. This is not inertia, it's not pure management, as you say in contempt; it's responsible management, it's a progressive organization of the Basques. We believe in the progressive institutionalization of Euskadi. Euskadi is not built by force of inertia. Governance is strategy, it's planning, it's initiative and it's evaluation for continuous improvement, and first, we're clear where we want to go. The first thing we did was to point out 15 country objectives and not the challenges that you have converted into budgets that we could have according to what could already be budgets that could be given by other actors. No, other actors also talk about quantifications, job creation, which are then not reality, and yet we are very attached to what is the reality of data according to the challenges we have identified. Employment policy. You, who campaigned that your employment policy was 40,000 public jobs, 40,000 public jobs, employment policy? Look, the first thing we did was to point out, I insist, 15 country targets, the most important thing is to reduce unemployment below 10%. Apart from point-of-hand movements, the trend is positive and we are convinced that with the shared effort we will be able to do so. We advance and you can check the degree of fulfillment of these 15 country goals. Second. We have established the strategy to achieve the objectives, we have adopted 15 strategic plans and 58 departmental plans. Mere management? You have the details of all these plans and their degree of compliance. Third. We are carrying out concrete actions in each and every area of government. You say the government has little initiative. Look, I'm going to quote just a few of the actions that took place last January: grouping and coordinating all technological centres and cooperative research centres in a Basque alliance that will be referenced in Europe; institutionalizing the social dialogue table, approved public employment bill, cooperation agreement with the multinational Gestamp that will develop its centre of technological excellence in Basque. Presentation of the new solar photovoltaic power park in Arasur, the basis of the agreement for the management of passenger transport between the Basque taxi federation and the VTCs. Constitution of the governing body that will manage oncology care in Euskadi after the link of Onkologikoa with the public network of Osakidetza; implementation of the three hospitalization units planned in the hospital of Eibar It is very simple and can be summed up in a sentence, we dedicate ourselves to governing, no more or less. We are dedicated to managing every day, with the highest demand and efficiency, to respond to the demands and needs of citizens. To govern to respond to the needs and challenges of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u37	The Black Friday thing. To be lehendakari, the one who goes first, there are things he's learned a little bit late about. If you've heard now that Euskal Herria Bildu is interested in economic policy, you've heard a little late, huh? Read the press, which has been talking about this for a long time. We have a different profile, an alternative profile, a constructive profile, a profile that talks about socio-economics, don't come to give ongietorris now And on the correction or not of my indicators, I would be grateful if you would specify which ones you refer to, because all the data I have given are updated with Eustat or with the Labour Relations Council, with the most recent reports. So, be precise. When I told you about the lack of ambition, I thought you were going to run a tupid veil over the objectives of the legislature and not to claim them. Better to run a tupid veil, because, for example, in R & D, when I tell you that you are going to the easy way, the challenge set by the European Union was to reach 3% of investment in Gross Domestic Product in R & D, that was the challenge. And you get out of the way that you have to do 100 strategic projects in R & D, 100 or 200 or 300, what else gives me, that is not a realistic indicator of the strategic challenge of improving R & D. Mark the internationally accepted percentage as a reference of the effort being made in R & D. And you, of course, respond with propaganda, tell us that we are a country of high innovation, which we are recognized in Europe. Indeed, we are, but high innovation is the second category of what refers to R & D. And for an industrial-based country, for a country that can only compete internationally on the basis of value-added creation and the incorporation of technology into the industrial product, this is an absolutely key issue. You, and I've already said that on another occasion, Mr. Obama was told that with his verbea he covered all his shortcomings and made a joke, and when someone was going to turn to where he, he said, had a problem, he answered, "don't worry, I have a speech." You have a situation management manual. Which is fine, thanks to you. What's wrong is the fault of Madrid, ELA or EH Bildu. And what we can cover with tons of propaganda, we cover with tons of propaganda. Wanting to do Mrs. Tapia a favor, a person I respect and as I think she screwed up I will not say her name, she said in a public act, that the Teleberri was composed of four parts: time, events, sports and Arantxa Tapia. They told me a joke the other day. "Why didn't Mrs. Arantxa Tapia leave at the Teleberri yesterday? Because if this month comes out again, they already have to fix it." Look, you, with propaganda can position yourself well in the electoral field, but with propaganda you will not cover the problems of this country. We talked about R & D. The other day we were in a school and there were as witnesses members of her party – Mrs Betolaza, I think I remember – in a school in Barakaldo. We asked how many students with families of Basque origin were in the centre. And instead of giving us the percentage in number, they gave us the names of each and every one of them. 5%, segregation, segregation. In the Basque school we have already managed to have students have low skills in three languages. We have problems that equal all sectors, the public and the private, work problems everywhere, and do you think of anything other than making a country agreement with the People's Party? With those in East Square this Saturday or Sunday, I don't know. With these you want to carry out the education of the country that has problems like these, and R & D, for example. We have put him on the table, and sometimes it is said that one thing is to criticize and another is to give wheat, we have already put on the table proposed at this session, to launch a country pact on R & D, an R & D pact on energy transition, long-term care programmes for the unemployed, programmes to respond to youth insecurity. A bet to set a minimum wage in this community of 1,200 euros, which is not to ask for the moon, is to ask what we owe on the basis of our standard of living, the translation of the 900 euros of the Spanish State to the standard of living that is here is 1,200. It is not limited to finding the impossibility or that the legislation does not leave us. Explore the boundaries, explore the margins create agreements for things to happen, because you give the impression that, as the classics say, you classify problems into two types: those that are solved alone and those that have no solution. We live in a new socio-economic reality, economic growth alone is not going to generate quality jobs, it is not going to propel our industry, it is not going to solve problems, we need leadership. And for that leadership and some aspects, shared leadership is needed. And you have Euskal Herria Bildu prepared for certain country agreements, because there are certain policies that go beyond party confrontation and must have that country agreement coating. You do not seek those of the Plaza de Oriente, you seek those who are willing, even being the first opposition force, of the alternative, to commit to those country policies, for that you must be willing to agree, negotiate and give in. Do not ask us to join, because unconditional adherence will not obtain, but when it proposes dialogue and agreement, we will talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. So go with the agreements with those in the Plaza de Oriente, as if you do not have agreements with those in the Plaza de Oriente here, in the Basque Parliament itself, Mr Casanova. Finally, you refer to R & D, and I think you confuse the R & D that this government is pushing for, which is the driving force of the country as a whole. And on this I am also basing myself on reiterating what is your reference to certain indicators, such as inaccurate indicators. Because you make a reference to R & D without taking into account what the annual budget increase effort committed by this government to what innovation funds are. Yes, Mr Casanova, with what can be the economic contribution of the private initiative to what is R & D and which reflects what can be R & D in the country as a whole. Now I have understood, Mr. Casanova, after your reference to Obama, why you congratulate Trump, I have understood it. I thought, yes, Mr. Casanova, that my words would not suffice. Read Financial Times You know why? Because he confesses that in this country there is a clear strategy for human permanent development. Because it proves that this town wants to be an international position in the world. Because he admits that we have an commitment to the business world, action, innovation, and industry. Because he admits that the euscal society has a strong character for collaboration, and that we make use of this character in order to work together, and to promote growth without leaving any one behind. That's reality. We're on our way, but we don't agree, we don't agree. We know we're in trouble. We know that we have problems, of course, that we know that we are aware of the uncertainties of the economy, of its global slowdown. Today we have in the media concern not only for Italy, but also for Germany. We are aware of this reality that surrounds us, that surrounds us. We are engaged in preventing this slowdown from having a negative impact on employment. We are aware that there are people who are having a bad time, people who have not been able to recover from the wounds of the economic crisis, people who need to receive an integration income because they have nothing, pensioners who need to supplement an insufficient pension and have no other income. Young people who are unclear about their future work and have barriers to their emancipation, disadvantaged areas that have not been able to join economic recovery at the same pace as others. We know. We are conscious and work every day to fill these gaps. I give you recent examples. Gaztelagun programme to subsidize the cost of renting housing for young people. Shock plans for the revitalization of disadvantaged areas, employment and economic recovery programmes, pay gap programmes, income guarantee income improvements, supplement to lower pensions, supplementary pension for housing costs, new health and educational infrastructure, etc. This is what the Government is dedicated to, and from the beginning of realism. Now you have the opportunity to demonstrate with facts and also from the beginning of realism, and the awareness of the limited services and resources available to us, that you also have the opportunity to demonstrate that you are dedicated to improving the lives of many of the families in this country, as the Government does. It's your responsibility. We will continue to fulfill ours, and if on the way we find ourselves, better than better, among all, for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Before you go on, say that the tenth point is left for another. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, made by the members of the Parliament for the College of the College of Nations, as to the fines imposed on the People of Jamaicans." Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u41	Hello, good morning. Mr. President, about the permanent human development Times We went back to the country once more, and it happened, well, because somehow the government and its local council had enabled it. What's going on? A few months later, there are fines established, about 14 fines in general, and two of them to the two members of the company of the Japanese company, so that the present captain and the former captain are sentenced to two hundred euros. And the question is very simple and I want a simple answer. Does the president think it's reasonable that these fines should be fixed?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Vice-Governor. Mrs. Ugarte, I don't know if it's Vertalian, but since 1996, there are obvious signs of the division, tension, and society of the Survival of the Funal. In this context, the duty of the edge is very delicate. Very delicate. He must observe that the law is fulfilled, by applying the judicial decisions. Borders must also prevent tension increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u45	Beno, zehapen-prozeduren zioak dioena says: "There were people who went behind the company Jaizkibel, who did not adopt the appearance and appearance of the parade, and that no one did anything to avoid it, and that even some encouraged such acts." That's the essence of sanctification. What happened? In the main street, the Jakabel company took a crowd after her, because she couldn't get out any other way. They were forbidden to leave the main street, and could not get out of other places, because people with colored handkerchiefs couldn't go into the neighbouring store street. So the situation was that there was some kind of closure, and that, to get out of that lock, people had to follow. I suspect that these punishments have been inflicted in some way to make an investigation. To make a preparation between the victims and the victims, and this people, who say that they were owing to these people, were all this worship, shouting and instalous, throwing cameras and preventing the people from doing their military work. And I have a feeling it's just as I told you about it, that you need to make a kind of exercise. That is to say, these people, who have entirely anti-democratic and inclicative conduct, these young girls, and their mothers and their friends, and every year-those people who go every year to give this ridiculous spectacle, were to come to the conclusion, and to make up for themselves other penalties. And to place victims and victims in the same place is extremely dangerous. And to say that he is going to provoke the behavior of the victims is very dangerous because with the same legal logic, so many judges justify it, that the girls who carry the miniatures are being provoked to be raped. And it's the same legal logic that's applied to the Jamaican company fines. And I've got a feeling that I don't have the political courage that's needed by you, and that he doesn't have the faculty he needs, once in a while, to find a way out of 96, which is repeated every year, no will at all. And it's a sad thing to hear you take a step like that this year, just to step forward with the Mozal Law, and to be treated in the same way. And I think it's embarrassing, I think we should have a different attitude from you. And the question I ask myself is, look, Oñatin, there's a drum on children every year in September, okay? There's one of the children's drums, and so many parents have the habit of going after that drummer without any disguise at all. Shall we make fines for them too? Must we punish the children's drums too? Are we going to enter this legal logic in the presence of any confusion that can be caused by those who follow a bad spot or a drum or a drum? Is that the recipe that's going to use when you find the final solution to this thing?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ugarte, we're talking about Alarde in the sandland. Well, you see, every year, because of the Alrard in the sand, the edge gives a decision to spend the day without any trouble. Last year, 15 sentences were sentenced for not keeping those resolutions. 15th And two of these penalties were directed from 15 to 15 to the two leaders of the Jachine company, and they were fined 200 euros. These two people have filed a resource using regulations. It is well to be able here to explain, to wish, to confound everything, but it is certain that these two persons have introduced their appeal by law. Anyway, fines don't have anything to do with what's going on about "Munk Aldée." In fact, you know it's a side-of-the-way, mixed-a-daiser attitude. You know it's our effort to help you find a solution to normal-estate development by respecting all people's rights, respecting the rights of all people. The support of this Government for the Egalitarian Alard is constant and unequivocal, and so is our radical rejection of the disrespectful attitudes shown in the past. There is not, Mrs. Ugarte, a defense of a peer of the controversy, or of the MIXED Aldee, there is a dispute whether a punishment is justified in objective actions or not. That's all. One thing and the other is to make a mess of it. In like manner, we must not despise the duty of the border to protect the highest value of the peaceful life of sand which sandrith inhabits. It is very clear that it is necessary to continue exploring ways of dialogue in order to take firm steps towards respect, equality between women and men and coexistence. The solution to this conflict that has been going on for more than 20 years will come at the hands of constructive and sincere dialogue as a first step to enable ways of understanding. It is clear that we have a long way to go, because still today – and this is worth highlighting – it is necessary for the Ertzaintza to issue a resolution for that day in Hondarribia. It is necessary for the Ertzaintza to issue a resolution for that day in Hondarribia. The Ertzaintza must ensure compliance with the law and prevent tension from drifting into greater evils. I invite you to set aside easy demagogy on this very complex and delicate issue; I invite you to work on the established paths, all of us, to help find a path of solution that avoids tension and confrontation, a path that guarantees the rights of all people and equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the president, the members of the Basque Group, Borja Sémper Passalski, a member of the Pional Group, about the deadline of the arrival of the AHT Basques." Mr. Sémper, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u49	Egun where you're going. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari. The objective facts behind the question we want to ask you today are the following: last 15 January, Mr.Delegate of the Government in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, Mr.Loza, former member of this House, said, with an exercise of transparency that should be acknowledged, that it was difficult for the High Speed Train to be a reality in Euskadi in 2023. On the same day, her adviser, Mrs Tapia, responded in a very direct way, stating that this new deadline or delay would respond to two fundamental reasons, or negligence in the management or lack of economic resources covered by the State's General Budgets. Not even 24 hours later, Mrs. Mendia, the general secretary of the party that supports her Government, also stated that this is a delay already known to all. On the same day, Mr Ábalos, Mr Ábalos, who was present in Euskadi, again turned around and said no, that the date of 2023 was maintained. The question, Mr Lehendakari, is very concrete, what is this quilombo? What do we stick to? And what is the date your Government manages for the effective and real operation of the high-speed train also in the Basque Autonomous Community? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u50	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Semper, as you well know, do not go back, in any case, to say that the high-speed train is the responsibility of the Spanish Government, and in that sense, since it is the competence of the Spanish Government, I refer to the most recent statements of the Minister of Development, and I quote: "What I can assure you is that the three capitals will be connected and with the works done in 2023". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u53	It is true what you say, Mr Lehendakari. But he lacks a leg to his claim and it is that the Basque Government has a share of responsibility in the management of the infrastructure. It is no less true that we have discussed this infrastructure on countless occasions in this House, and it is no less true that, fortunately, we have not been discussing this infrastructure in this House for a while, above all, without doubting the deadlines set for its completion and operation in Euskadi. The previous legislative period, together with Mr Rajoy's Government, had a will and a decision and a meridian clarity as to operationality, which took place in 2023. You are negotiating and, you are negotiating with a government, Mr Sánchez's government, you are also negotiating budgets, the party that supports you, but on what you have a lot to say about that negotiation and on your relationship with the government of Sánchez, you are stating in the State General Budgets that the operation of this infrastructure is for the year 2025. This is what it puts in the General Budgets of the State. With this, too, Mr Urkullu, there is only one interpretation, and it is that, regardless of the consequences for Euskadi, regardless of the consequences for Euskadi of the delay in the high-speed train, you are committed to continuing to sustain Mr Sánchez's disastrous government. Disaster for many reasons, which surely we share, you will not say in this rostrum, that I sense, but disastrous also for your manifest inability to manage, the fruit of your weakness, your improvisation or whatever you want. The reality is that our capitals are poorly connected, uniquely San Sebastian. The reality is that the delays..., yes, singularly poorly connected San Sebastián, by the airport, which you are allowing me to agony, Mrs Tapia, because they do not endorse or defend the extension of the track, are agonizing infrastructures such as the port of Pasaia, Mrs Tapia, to the detriment of others, such as the port of Bilbao, and also manifest the great lack of communication by train, it costs approximately six hours, to go from Donostia to Madrid. This is a deficiency and it is a problem for our economy, for our businesses and for our citizens, and you are endorsing this inability to manage Mr Sánchez, for political interests, no doubt, for a partisan electoral calculation, no doubt, of which in the end the pagans are the whole of the Basques. And yes, Mrs. Tapia, singularly, the donostiaras. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u54	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Semper, the high-speed train is the central link of the Atlantic corridor and is part of a European connection network designed in the 1990s. It is clear that this infrastructure, which is key to our country, is a major delay, and it is clear that the different Spanish governments have prioritized other sections and connections, rather than this infrastructure that connects us directly with the European network. You tell me about the recent statements made by those responsible for the Spanish Government, whether it is the government delegate here in Euskadi or the minister himself, of other people whom I do not think the Spanish Government should be responsible for. But I would like to remind you that the first high-speed line was inaugurated in 1992. It has been 26 years and during this time, 15 years has ruled the People's Party and 11 years the Socialist Party. My assessment is that more, much more, Mr Semper, could have been achieved during these 26 years. My assessment is that we must do our utmost to complete this infrastructure as soon as possible. Look, three years ago, accompanied by the President of New Aquitaine, Alain Rousset, I met with the Commissioner for Transport, Violeta Bulc, in Brussels and I join what she recently said, the Basque Y would bring high added value benefits to the European Union. This infrastructure is important for our future and we'll offer all our resources to help you finish the deadlines. The Basque Government has always shown a constructive attitude and we have proposed formulas to speed up the work. You also refer to the commitment of the Basque Government, although it is a competence of the Spanish Government. For look, in fact, of the 17 sections assumed and managed directly by our Government, 12 are completed and 5 are in progress. The degree of implementation of the responsibility assumed in the management order by the Basque Government exceeds 80 %. According to the latest planning approved in 2017, the biggest problem for meeting the deadlines is in access to capitals. In Donostia, the constructive project is currently being drafted by Eusko Trenbide Sarea. The settlement of arrival, burial and station in Bilbao was closed by all administrations in March last year by the People's Party government. In Vitoria-Gasteiz, the interinstitutional committee endorsed the agreement on 13 September. The agreement is complete and again I refer to the most recent statements of the minister responsible for this matter, the minister of Fomento, who said textually: "What I can assure you is that the three capitals will be connected and with the works done in 2023." The Basque Government and all the Basque institutions will maintain our full involvement so that this infrastructure, which is basic for the future of Euskadi, does not suffer any further delays. Eskerrik asko. It won't be our responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpologies made by the members of the Ui Uruzuno Golds Collectors to the Governors and the President of the Autobernus concerning the Calendar of Transferences." Mr. Uruzuno, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u57	Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, Mr. Erkorek. The calendar has arrived a little later than requested by this Chamber of Jurisdictions. And then we've heard ratings about that calendar, especially when you're having fun. You know, it's a positive idea that the calendar has been brought to you, and we think it's an occasion for another reading, especially when you see how that calendar came. We think it gives occasion to talk of arbitration, to talk of contempt, even of contempt, of contempt, of the contempt which the Spanish Government makes to this parliament, of the one-sidedness and firmness of speaking. On the other hand, after a medium signed by Podemos, the Social Party, and a medium signed by the Eunciist Party, we ourselves voted for it by a middle course, it was agreed that we should demand that calendar. If the middle man had five points, I shall read only the third, and the third said: "Insta a qualición del Stado a que antes de sixs pases present un calendario de la materialeción de las transferencias pendentes, ingenando un lugarcado a penitaris atros penenticiaries y a la gestion del rémeno econciico de Social." Beharbada, interpretation-kontua of age, beharbada, testuaren literaltasunaren kontua litzateke. And to tell you the truth, neither can we blame the Sánchez Government now for not giving it a prominent place to Social Security. Because if, of course, something stands out in that calendar, it is the place of Social Security, out of the calendar, out of the calendar. Perhaps, I don't know, we ought to put a motive after this interpelation, ask him already to put the jurisdiction of Social Security into the streets. We could ask a watercolour to facilitate things at the moment we don't understand, a watercolour to interpret such texts and texts. However, there is another matter for us, which is more important than this. And we say, who is the government of Spain of that kind of arbitration, that society is left out of its security for the sole purpose? And at the same time, who's crazy to accept that one-sided decision? Just to admit it! Again, we repeat, Ley Orgánica was antida a referendum. Ley Orgánica atida a referendum. No one can alter it by himself, in his political calculations, in his political will. Hence we say that this is a arbitration, and we say that they behave with contempt towards this Chamber as well. Let's talk about guarantees. The press brings out a headline and says: "Otro pacto con el sello de Urkullu y Erkoreeka 10 años unpués." 10 años unpués. Do you know what Mr. Erkoreka is, 10year challenge? It's a recal challenge that spreads on social networks, and it's itself, 10 years later, taking the same picture in the same place. It says "otro pacto con el sello de Urkullu y Erkoreeka 10 años unpués." And he shows up 10 years ago that you're quite the same, Urkullu, now, with a little more white hair, actually. But the transfer is the same. They haven't changed. They didn't move. They're still in their hands. So, if a signed agreement hasn't been completed 10 years ago, what guarantees, what's the guarantee of this one? What's the guarantee of this one? So this is what we ask, what are the guarantees? If this is not fulfilled, why should this be fulfilled? President Sánchez has an obstacle, and the way he spends his budgets. And once the budget has passed, like bad news singing groups, this agreement is drowned in the swamp of the wilderness. When he gets through that, when he's passing that handkerchief, in the swamp of oblivion, we think that this deal will be drowned too. Eusko Jaurlaritzak has been esaten du egutegia ekarri eta gero; "Erkoreka intends to consolidate the schedule of transfers, although the central government changes". Ondo, bear ondo. Baina hilabete eskas geroago; "The Basque Government links the success of the transfer schedule to Sánchez's approval of his accounts". Links the success of calendar compliance. Out of strategy? Is that the strategy that the Basque Government is going to follow, to approve the accounts to the PSOE and then, I don't know, to ask for the vote for the PSOE also in the following elections, because if the calendar is not going to remain without any guarantee of being carried out? Iraqurriko said Euzko Alderdi Jeltzaleak eta Euskal Herria Bilduk self-government puttzian sinatu genuine testuaren paragraph bat soilik. "Compliance with the Statute is a right and a mandate of the entire citizenship of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, whose compliance should not be subject to other agreements and variables of any kind. The new political status needs bases for effective bilaterality and the shielding of our self-government." So what is that, what the Basque Government is demanding, if not linking it to other agreements? Link it to other agreements and above without any guarantees. Iolako bermerik gabe. Orduan hori da, strategy zein da? Zein of the strategy, PSOErentzako botoa eskatzea izango of the hurricane? When we intercepted Mr. Urkullu two or three times before him, President Urkullu replied that the only options we have were words and actions, political words and political action. And we have actually seen many words, words, many heard, but few actions. And this interpenetration above all, Mr. Erkoe, is for this very purpose, that we may be able to explain our actions to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u58	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Uruzuno, you've started your interaction by mentioning the transfers which are to be done to this law. The fact is that, as you can imagine, the parliamentary has been well aware of the transfers of Euskal Autonomy to the Elego Er member, and the decisions he has made, he has been well registered, including those which he received from this law and received during the 10 preceding laws, many and many, if I may be allowed to say so, without the protection of patriots on his left? The first President has welcomed you to this practice of economic and industrial policy, which I also, with all sincerity, welcome you to this dynamic. As for this institution, I shall not enter into it now, but in my own affairs seven decisions are principally received. The five material is concerned with the transfer of certain concrete things, but two of them about the calendar. With five particular matter-matters, two were taken in 2017, one about airports, one about prisons. The other three were taken in 2018, and it's about the Social Security. Besides this, there has been a dispute about the calendar, and this dispute about the calendar has given two settlements, one from the 12th of April, and the other from June 28, which you have just mentioned. At two o'clock the central Government was allowed to present a calendar of six months' time, but the second is supposed to protect or shift the first, to abandon the government of the Potion, because it was addressed to Rajoy's government, but in the meantime there was a change of government in Madrid, especially because the second is addressed to the government of Sanchez. At two o'clock, it was six months' need, and you yourself here in irony or half joking, said that the time was run out on December 28, with all the significance it has. It's true that you've calculated six months without considering what the Rule of the Parliament says about August. But I'm not now defending the designs of the central Government, because they have each one to defend their functions. Anyway, you're asking a big question now. Who's the Core Government and who's a Eukojok just to accept a calendar that doesn't mention Social Security? I've got some highlights to make here. When you say "just" I don't know what you mean. But when I made mention of that calendar I had collected, I first declared that this did not answer our planning; that it did not satisfy our whole planning; that we, in the first place, did not consider the privilege of the law itself. I made that clear. I don't even know what you're talking about. But even if this be so, our will is our plan of making steps in the auto-communety at the right time, small or great, of stepping forward and accusing, but we will only use the time necessary for the indictment, and we will not use the accusation as a hindrance to negotiation. Where we see the opportunity to advance, even if we do not satisfy our proposals in 100 percent, we will not refuse the choice for negotiation, or else because we have not had such a chance in the past so clear, as formally stated, from the central Government. Then you read the press. I see you read and continue the headlines with great interest, this ten years' care. It's the press business, and the press can do it with freedom. I won't go in there. I don't know how to bring a reading from the press here to reproach the government with this or that. But at any rate, I can say one thing openly, about what I've said in public about it, about the calendar proposal that the government of Madrid has sent to the Euskator, they've never changed. First, I said, what I have said before, that this does not satisfy our planning because we have the priorities in our government program, and even in the compact of coalition, and that it does not satisfy it. Secondly, I said also, that when I am asked, the Government plainly sees the transfers of the hands to the perfection of the Common-wealth of Guernica, which is the fundamental regulation of the Eucal Autonomy of the Esinitia, it is plain that this cannot be in accordance with the co-ion, and therefore must be a firm commitment to the central Government. There's a government or there's another one, a game or something. This I have said as a principle, as I would, and as a plan. Then when I've been asked, "But do you think that would be possible if the government has a change and instead of the present government there's a new one," because the right-hand parts are in front of it and so on? Then I've made a more pragmatic plan, and I've said that it would have been difficult. There's nothing else to see than Poptulars themselves. You will have heard of Vox, or of Ciudadanos in the course of the week of the Senate, in an ardent and clear manner, against transfer. The Popular Party has not yet appeared in so remarkable a manner, but now itself appears in this way. That's what I said. Even though we have hitherto observed in some media a part of what I have said, and sometimes emphasise another part of what I have said, and use it as if we were to contradict or act here. I've always said all that when I've always had to build a rating on it. You ask what kind of criteria we want to play. You gave the president a four months ago an interpelation here about this subject and you'd put him on the same terms as you'd ask him, and, in four months, the plan of the Eusko mad isn't changed, and I'm not going to change what the president said at that time. But it is true, from what has been said, there are certain points, in a certain sense, or which give us the means to affirm the other arrangement, while this interpenetration has taken place, and two things have happened between them. One, that the Companion of the Two, has been convened, and that this Committee of the Two, has made some changes of hand, so that when we talk of change, we are not merely dreaming, we are in the true and possible steps and planning, which shows that it is possible to resist transferments, and so continue to give steps, small or great self-goverments. And the second, which has never happened before, is that Euko Laughter has received a commitment from Madrid's government, a matter of what kind of matter it is that it is ready to transfer into what period. That's never happened before. I know that such planning does not contain the entire certainty that they will be complete from top to bottom, but it has never happened and I don't think that before the negotiation is begun, we must defile everything with a negative plan or with a nebism plague. We'll see what planning they make and what they do to us, we'll bet. I have to confirm what the president said then. What kind of criteria will he be playing? With their feet on the ground, and, as every negotiation happens, confessing each other, confessing each other's confession, realism and suppleness, as we must act in negotiation. We'll see what the road gives and how far we get. If I have experience and I know that the blind are here, and that it will be fulfilled in all that has been foretold, whether it may be a phallo or a dream, but let's not start before the negotiation begins, painting things in the dark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u60	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u61	Maybe I'll start by thanking you for the welcome. But the fourth or fifth time is what you're welcome to, and he's making quite a recrimination. He's turning into a mantra enough already, and it seems to be a joke or an excuse that has lost the grace of not even to retain the question. I'd be able to tell you a couple of stories about what you were talking about. The point is, if it were that you've been talking about it right now, we wouldn't have a problem, but the fact that you've talked about it right now is that it doesn't agree with reality. It's just a matter of confession, that there's not a confession to each other, that there's a subordinate model between the central government of Spain and us, and that's the problem, when we say the problem is a physical problem, it can be summed up with these two words. And that's the problem, and then another thing to say from the beginning, I think it's been 40 years since, because people make jokes about it, social networks and all. For the last week I saw a joke on Twitter that I saw yesterday, "Y si le le aranmos, al Gobierno, cestroto del Stateto, de 8 días, osa, es a ver, then your statement does not agree with reality." And it's said, "Aldal Popular Man, OK, Popular Party, but I think I've said once more in interpelation that the Socialist Party is not new, that PSOE is not new, we know PSOE. And if my calculations do not fail me, I dare say, that the Socialist Party has been in the Spanish Government for more than a few years, and the State remains the same. So he's more responsible for not keeping it. And now, by chance, he's also a member of the government here. Then I'd leave it in the air, even if it's a guarantee of the Social Party. And one more thing, you say "face." I don't know what a feeling my eloquence has caused you, but I don't want to reproach the Government or simply work home. I'm not telling you what you're gonna do and if you don't do it, I don't know what to do. No, it's what I'm saying. How do you describe the problem yourself? It's a commercial problem, and it's not like we see it better and we see it worse. I told Mr. President that. It's not a question of seeing this bottle half empty or half full. It's just that the bottle loses its water and that's what it's like, somebody's done a hole in it. And the point is, how do we put that tampon on him? And the Basque People are ready to do so, and the conclusion we wish to derive from all this is mainly that. As long as this underlying system goes on, not 80 years, we'll be there 120 years, and if there's any guarantee of this, we'll be able to change this political frame and get another model of relationship with Spain that we don't have now. And this has been partly raised for us in the principles and principles which we have signed in the Autogobernu Poncia. It is said, in advanced countries, that in democratic countries the constitution or the constitution are modified for generations to adapt to these generations. Spain is by no means advanced and democratic in this sense. But the fact is that he also drags us with them and is not ours. Then, as long as we don't change, there's no guarantee. And I'll tell you to finish it, we'll announce or present the motion, and we'll insist on that motion to include the jurisdiction of Social Security in that calendar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u62	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Uruzuno, I've welcomed you here because you've been complaining about your being promoted to many or too many passengers. I've had the first chance to do it personally, and I'm giving it to you, if you've been given it before, well, but I didn't want to take my chance. I don't know whether it's making you laugh now, but, well, it's funny when we look back, and you and me, many of you, about all sorts of legal things or things that you've said for a while, that sounds funny, isn't it? Well, you're telling me my planning is not in harmony with reality. Well, I've given you two facts that I've taken from reality, two clear and clear facts that have happened in the past three months: One, some transfers have been made, so that reality is possible to convene the Committee of the Two, collect and transferments; it is not mere invention; and, secondly, we have received a calendar, which has never been received before, and which no one has hitherto received, but by any one else, who has not received it. That's where the realities are. I play with him, and that wasn't what I invented. He's sitting on the table where anyone can examine him. You say it's no use, because the problem is in depth and because it's an independent system and the Euskonomics and the Esquical Autonomy are powerless about a stream that must come from Madrid. Well, I'm not going into it, it's true, but it's true, too, when we've begun with modifications, they're probably the most obvious signs of difference, because there's no agreement between them, unless both agree or agreement are signed by the same document. The central Government of Spain often proposes a proposition which we do not approve, and if it is not signed, it is not because the Government of Madrid does not make any proposals, because we do not accept it, but only because we think it acceptable to us. The difference, then, is involved in the depths. There must be both parts, and they must be agreed to the agreement in order that the agreement may be obtained. It's true, you're going to say it doesn't work unless the central government shakes hands. But this is quite natural, because today, or so far as it is in the hands of the central Government, the resources of human resources, economic resources, financial resources, patriarchals, etc., all these, which are in his power to pass into our hands. So the central Government has to take a step and that's what the Constitution court has told him over and over again. To end the process of the development of the States, the central Government ought to give it an end, and it is the head, the most important manager, who is responsible for it. I suspect you, as often as in many others, are planning a dilemma here: Everything or nothing. Or we begin the negotiation of social security at the moment, or we must abandon everything else. And what we think is what we think, even though we have a preference to the transfer of social security, not only because it is this political will, but because the necessity of society leads us to it, though we think it ought to be so, since what we have in our hands is advantageous, since it is bargainable, and since we have a firm and clear opportunity for negotiations in other matters, we will not refuse to refuse it. We'll report it. But the accusation will not lead us to abandon all other negotiations, and to prevent the centralization of the country from being disturbed. If we have a chance to step forward, we will use that opportunity and make steps, whether small or great, as has been said before. And I think it would not be responsible now, if we were to ask the rest of the transfers to be excluded, by giving one or the other absolute priority. That's not our plan, and we intend not to. That those who have the priority are ready for first place in the central government? We'll celebrate right now. Otherwise, we'll go on with what's there, the way the responsibility demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u64	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "The Internation, made by the members of the United States of the World-Espez, María del Mar Carmen lópez de Ocariz, by lópez, Euninka Popula, made for the development of Economics, and the chief department of the Subjugations, not to fill up the scope of their trades with the sector of sugar and bemology." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, counselor. Yeah, we're talking beet again. A year and a half ago, in June 2017, we asked him about the future of the beet industry in Álava and at the moment we see ourselves in the need to do so again. Because, Commissioner, since the European Union's 2006 proposal to amend the CMO for sugar, the sector has not emerged from uncertainty, because the proposed amendment directly affected the price per tonne, initially, so that it went from EUR 48 to EUR 28 per tonne, when the production costs were between EUR 38 and 41, which completely distorted the profitability of this production. Already on this occasion, between the Basque Government and the Provincial Council of Álava, a sectoral support plan was implemented for this production, because production and profitability were seriously affected. According to the data provided by the Provincial Council of Álava, the 2005/06 marketing year, before amending the CMO in Álava, the only territory in the Basque Country where beet is produced, planted 2,766 hectares with a production per hectare of 87 tons, giving a production of 230,000 tons and a value of 11,225,000 euros. If we go to the following year 2007-2008, with the modification of the CMO already applied, because the reduction in hectares was 300 hectares in the production, but the value of the production fell by 5 million euros, reached half; price decrease, production decrease, profitability decrease. And it is in 2015, with the completion of the quota system, although it was obtained two years of extension below the volume of production, right? And if we look at the 2017-2018 season, the extension is over, because there are 1,580 hectares that are sown, the production was excellent with 102 tons/hectare. And despite this excellent production, due to the drop in hectares sown, the production remained at 158,000 tons and the value at 5,278,000 euros. In this campaign, well, we are appreciating the data, but it has also been seriously undermined by the drop in hectares, the campaign has had some conditions of climatology and others that are reducing it, they say that by 30%, with which, the situation has worsened, counselor. So today we have 160 farms, 1,500 hectares, 20 municipalities affected by these farms. The highest percentage of producers is in the City Council of Vitoria, it is the area of highest quality and where there are more farms, 66. And, as I told you, this fall in production, in addition to undermining farm productivity, puts in a critical situation the sector that remains in a situation of weakness before the industry, which requires a minimum volume of production to keep open the processing plant, Miranda's plant, which is what we have next. Also in this transit of elimination of the quotas of the sector, from the Basque Government and the Foral Diputación de Álava, together with the sector, aid has been articulated in agreement with the European Union, in a way very similar to what has been done in the rest of the autonomous communities of the northern beet producing area. An interprofessional framework agreement was also formalised, the MAI we call it, which contains the regulation of interprofessional relations in the sector, with the aim of giving stability to the sector. For the period 2015-16, 2016-17, with the extension of quotas, and 2017-18 to 2019-20, already without quotas, which regulate the reciprocal relations between beet producers and sugar plants, in accordance with European and Spanish legislation at each time. This agreement, inter alia, states that the prices offered may be reviewed by mutual agreement between the parties if the balance of the services taken into account at the time of the undertaking is substantially altered, and that the break-up of this balance may be due to regulatory changes, or circumstances that seriously affect the continuity of any of the factories. In addition, as regards the price offer for the 2015-16 to 2019-20 marketing years, the AMI says that this commercial offer is unitary and indivisible, that it will be valid for the five successive marketing years and that this price pays for all the beet purchased. The reality is that, despite the exceptional circumstances mentioned in the MAI, Sugarra unilaterally proposes a fall in the price of EUR 6,5/tonne, which means a 20 % cut in the final price, just in this marketing year in which, as I said earlier, production has been lost by 30 %. And, counselor, the AMI is very important, you said it in the inquiry that I made to you a year and a half ago, and I agree, but it is good if the parties comply, if we comply with the signed. But as I said to him, sugar unilaterally argues in his favour that this situation obliges him to do so, because the numbers should not come out. And you were telling us in that inquiry, that the sector has to become more competitive, that it improves its performance, that it improves its volume of production, that it grows and also sustainably over time. But, Commissioner, we have not been able to move forward, we are as we were, in a situation of weakness, very vulnerable, because we depend on an industry that has no competition and does what it thinks or what is right for it. And in view of this situation that seems to lead us to arbitration and that we start in May, and that will also affect the next campaign, because we are in a scenario of uncertainty, that worries producers, that they don't know what to do, and in many cases they also choose to produce less or take another type of production as an alternative. If this lengthens over time, it can be a turning point of difficult return. And what we want to put to you, Madam Counsellor, is whether you have met with the sector, with the Álava Foreign Ministry, also with the ministry, because you have and can do something in this case, or what conclusions or outputs you foresee you can look for. We understand that we have to go beyond economic aid, that we have to look for initiatives that can give the sector some stability, and we said in the question that made it the previous time that we have to settle this production, but we have to do something more to produce, because where we have the real deficit is in the transformation, not only for this product, but in this product especially it makes us very vulnerable. And it seems to me that that happens to us, because it also seems to happen in other autonomous communities. I read an intervention by the Minister, Mr Planas, which said "the commitment to maintaining the cultivation of beet". But we have to cultivate and do something else, because if we don't, we're very weak, we're in the middle of the process. And in that I think we have to look for efforts. I would like to know, Commissioner, what the proposal is or what the Government is doing in addition to accompanying the sector. We have, as I said, arbitration in May, but in the meantime something can be done in addition to waiting for arbitration which, as I say to you, falls on very critical dates also for the start of the new campaign and production. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. All members of the legislative class, who are no leaders at this moment, good days to all. Mrs López de Ocariz said that sugar beet is in a complicated situation, being also a crop that is irrigated and that occupies the hectares that she was telling us at this time in Álava and an activity related to many farms, 135 specifically in Álava, all of them in the historical territory of Álava. This beet is also transformed to get sugar, we have sugar beet right now and all of it is taken to the company Sugarra SA, which is a company that currently depends on the British Sugar, which has four production plants, four processing plants, and one of them is Miranda's, to which all producers of Álava carry their production. Sugarra's purchase prices are regulated by that interprofessional agreement that was signed in 2015, which defined two periods of performance, as you said, and until 2017 was associated with what was the production quota, and from there it housed another type of performance. Taking into account, moreover, that in 2017 production is liberalised and assumes that the countries of northern Europe sow much more and start to produce quantities of sugar beet at more competitive prices than those currently existing, for example, in the territory of Álava. Basically because their agroclimatic conditions are different from ours, and in this case more beneficial for the production of this type of crop; they are rain-metrically better and makes the production increase. For example, in France, more than 30% increased in the years 2017-2018, which means that there has been an overproduction of sugar beet and therefore sugar in Europe and that it has also led to a price difference that is currently being paid. From the liberalisation of the market, also data. In Europe, 13 and a half million tonnes of sugar were produced before. France produced around three million and Germany two million nine hundred, and these numbers have now multiplied in such a way that production at the moment is really relevant. They were either subscribing or subscribing in 2017, well we are at historical minimums, 320 euros per tonne produced, when we have reached 500 by 2017. The reduction is therefore, as you said, more than 36% after production, which then cost the start-up of this entire sugar production process. In addition, the 2018 campaign has been really critical, the worst of the last 20 years, let's say as far as production per hectare is concerned. The main reason, moreover, has been precisely the climate, the existence of excessive humidity, which has led to an attack of a fungus called cercospora, which has done to proliferate in a situation that has already been occurring in other years, but this year in a much more relevant way, and as it has attacked the radiata pine, which we will talk about later, also in this case to the production of sugar beet. Therefore, lower price and also lower production Unilaterally, as you said, it was decided on the part of Azucarera to lower the price of the ton of beet from 32.5 euros to 26 euros. Despite the fact that recently, in recent weeks, as a result of the direct negotiations with Sugarra, this EUR 26 has been raised a little bit, and we hope that it will also be possible to raise more. This EUR 6.5 reduction in the price of the ton of beet, of course, clearly does not comply with the agreement signed, with which we are concerned in a relevant way and we are talking, on the one hand, and negotiating with the sugar company itself, but also with the administrations that are concerned exactly as we are, with Castilla León and with the Community of La Rioja and with the Ministry of Agriculture itself, and there have been a few meetings and talks at all levels. Specific meetings, 13 December, 15 January, and at the moment we are also speaking directly with the CEO and the agricultural director of the company Sugarera, with the aim of raising that price by 26 euros, and that is to fulfil what had been signed. The different parties involved, of course, and in constant collaboration of course with the Foral Diputación de Álava, as it cannot be otherwise what we claim is that this price reduction is not a reality, precisely in a year in which production, as you said, has been smaller as a result of climatology. The commitment on the part of the administrations is maximum and we have different measures put in place for production aid, as you well know. In our case, it is a little different from what is happening in the Community of La Rioja or in the Community of Castile León, which are bordering on the same problem as we are, since the aid put in place, as you certainly know, has to be implemented for five years. Sorry, the deal is for five years and they have to be executed at least four years. For them the fourth year was 2018, for us it is the third year. We therefore have to continue this year, too, because if not, farmers would be forced to return them. Therefore, both EAFRD aid and aid launched by the Member State should continue. But if we go specifically apart from the aid that you certainly know and that I am not going to repeat at this time, what are the actions that we have undertaken and that we are carrying out directly? Well, on the one hand and as an agreement with the Álava Provincial Council, as you said, demand compliance, together with the rest of the autonomous communities and the Ministry of Agriculture, with that agreement that was signed in 2015 and that arbitration has been resorted to to to achieve that compliance. It's a measure that we certainly couldn't let go, because it's very relevant. In addition, we demand the maintenance of the activity at the sugar plant in Miranda, because we consider that the campaign that has to be carried out in 2019-2020 has to be relevant precisely because of that circumstance that I was commenting on. We continue and work on the direct negotiations with Sugarra to make this a reality and that in the subsequent campaigns, not only in this 19-20, but in the subsequent ones, they guarantee the stability of the sector and allow us to start from that transformation of course. With a view to the new CAP reform, we must also defend the coupled aid for the sector to the extent that it has been carried out so far, we cannot let it go, maintaining the maximum levels of aid because if we are not to transform this type of agriculture into another type of agriculture, to another type of production, which cannot be carried out overnight, which takes some time and we would also lose that production of sugar beet and perhaps we could introduce overproduction into another type of agricultural production and it would lead us to make a monoculture in any of the other circumstances, which we certainly want to avoid at all costs. At the beginning of 2018, moreover, aware of this impact that could hypothetically have the liberalisation of the sector, from Azti, together with the Hazi Foundation, we began to work in order to be able to modify the cultivation of sugar beet to beet, which requires a somewhat smaller modification, so that we would diversify the sector a little and we could have a processing industry that was not only sugar, but also another type of food. This study was delivered in November 2018, we are analyzing it with the Foral Diputación de Álava itself before putting it in the hands of the sector itself and trying to implement measures that allow us, I insist, to diversify the cultivation, but also to diversify the transformation sector. And those are the most direct measures we're working on. But immediately what we have to do is to try, in addition to arbitration, to reach a more beneficial agreement and if, of course, it is possible, that is our objective, that the agreement signed in the year 2015 be effectively complied with. The issue of diversification, of course, is relevant, but it is a medium-long-term issue that we have to work with both the Parliament and the rest of the parties involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u69	Yes, thank you, counselor. Indeed, we are faced with a very important sector from an economic point of view, a sector that we have structured with a lot of administrative support, to which many resources have been devoted to leaving it in a highly qualified production situation and which for a few years has worked wonderfully, but the circumstances of the modification of the CMO have distorted the market and this is having important consequences and for a long time, which, as I said earlier, generates a low motivation for other producers to continue with this crop, there are alternatives and then the effects that we all know both social and cultural in the rural sphere, and this does not contribute to the maintenance of the population or to curbing the depopulation that is at the moment. So, indeed, he has many factors worth working for. This week, on the 4th, I was reading an article that brought Sugarra out and came to say that they are fully entitled to take the decision they have taken, but that in addition to the reduction of world stock and production especially in Europe are already anticipating a cycle change in the price of sugar, that Sugarra undertakes to pay the supplement as soon as the price of sugar is recovered. Yes, that they advocate for the sector, but in the meantime there is a producer here who suffers, suffers and lives in anguish. And I believe that we, in addition to working on those measures, which we approved in this House a year and a half ago, which I know are working in some areas, have to do something to generate confidence in the producer and to continue to bet on producing this, because when this production falls, it is very difficult to recover, and that happens in this production especially, and when they seek the alternative of another product that does not generate this uncertainty, they continue to do so. We approved in this House, as I said, that you, the Basque Government, the Foral de Álava, the communities of regents, the associations of producers, should work to adopt agronomic measures, techniques, innovation, contractual frameworks that will enable the increase of cultivation. And I don't know if they're doing it, if they've done it, if they've made any progress; the truth is that, in fact, climatology and other circumstances don't favor this coming up; we also have to think about that, how we stop, attack certain diseases with other methods and other means, because either we learn that or, if not, we won't be able to cultivate. And we are stagnant, with a downward trend in volume of production, in a sector, as I said, demotivated in this almost permanent situation of uncertainty and this, as I said, endangers the permanence of the industrial structure. And we, Madam Counsellor, believe that we have a transformation deficit, I told you before, that we produce many products in Álava but we do not transform, with which we are left with the most complex, the most expensive part, the one that has the most environmental expenditure and effects, and the transformation is leaving us. And what we could then incorporate into the sector we do not understand, and I think we have to investigate, make a great deal of effort to attract processing systems to this product that give us added value, because, if not, this sector, especially, will be able to survive the situation it is having. We are going in a tremendous decline and, therefore, we must look for alternatives, alternatives to sugar, alternatives to production, yes, another type of beet variety, but also alternatives to sugar, and I believe that in that we do have tools to be able to work. And it's all made up. How we bring and attract that to this environment so that it is affordable and that it can contribute, that producers can also share and power, as I said, incorporate that added value into production, because if we are not going to see ourselves in a very complicated situation. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u71	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs López de Ocariz, in fact, I believe that the situation is no more aid than is already proposed, because there are also approaches in other communities and by some members of some associations, which propose the possibility of implementing some minimal aid. We need, as you said, and I fully share, being able to have, on the one hand, a diversity of cultivation, yes, and make the most of the cultivation we have. Within this study that has been launched, as I said, and that has recently been delivered, there are two types of actions: one of them is, in addition to sugar, what other types of elements, what other types of food can be transformed, that can use all of Álava's production, and, in addition, trying to diversify a little the cultivation that leads us to another type of food that may, in addition, have other kinds of benefits and are well taken over by the users, for which we are currently going to acquire all of these foods. We have to bear in mind, moreover, that sugar is... on the one hand, we have overproduction in Europe, we have been seeing it, we have some production difficulties, as you said, and we have to deal with those difficulties that make production here more expensive, because we have to introduce irrigation, on the one hand, and we have to deal with certain pests that are occurring to us and, on the other hand, we must not forget also that from the health point of view, precisely, what we are doing is trying to achieve a lower sugar diet, which leads us to think that sugar production or consumption is going to be something less than we have at the moment in the future. Then if we are not able to diversify that crop, bring it to other elements that are more easily assumed by consumers, and moreover, I agree, to seek, attract, some kind of processing industry, because it does not seem that we are going to have a very flattering future. From that point of view, once that strategy is defined and agreed with the sector, let us not rule out, no, we are also working through the Invest in the Basque Country strategy, also with in the first sector, both with Hazi and with Azti, trying to look for some processing industry that with local capital can also develop some activity. The truth is that at the moment we don't have anyone who can say "we are already working with a very concrete idea", but we would also like to be able to address that second part. At the moment, I think it is up to us to address the problem in the short term, but certainly to make medium-term, long-term planning that goes through diversification, and also transformation. I totally agree with you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interpelation, by Jose Ramon's Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemus to the head of economics and sub-guldens, the pines to the proportion of their fumigation with copper-oxid." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u73	Thank you, Mr. President, and good morning to all. Mrs. Tapia, good morning. We haven't had a chance to talk about this before, but we have a problem with the pines. You and I know. And I said it was a problem, but I'd say it was two problems: the one is temporary and serious, the one of the red ribbon or the brown ribbon, and the other of the long-term, and the present state of the wood-cutting. Both of them, these two problems are harmful, very hurtful, and we're worried about our team for these two problems. The disease destroys the pines, the disease endangers the wealth of agriculture, and, of course, the employment of Toulouse, the Urola, the Deban, the Bithynian, the Basques. But until now, the wood policies that have been set up until now have been quite fatal to the sector. Let us consider how the state of wood is: Wood's price is small, the wealth of agriculture, the wealth of wood, only 8%, and the value of wood is low. We've got to get him up, but he's been low so far. That's why I'm not just saying that we have two problems. And in front of these problems, to deal with these problems, we must first examine the answers, plan them, then evaluate them later on. And among these four steps the most important thing is to consider carefully what is the problem. And, so far as we're concerned, it's not just fun, it's not a big test of trouble, and that's why they didn't make it up with answers. They didn't make it up, they didn't take a good look at it, and they didn't plan it well. They have not, you have not carefully measured the consequences of fumigation. Some people don't know who they are. And you've been in a hurry, and you've invented provisional answers to reassure the owner, but I think the consequences may be more serious than the problem. Fumigations are fatal to environments, and almost certain for the health of the people. The product, the product to be used, is extremely injurious, the government of the Church Security of Europe says this is official information, that what you sent is harmful to all living beings, "a highrisk to reds and mamals, to aquatic organis, toad micro-orgasms." Very injurious to birds, to fleshlings, to organisms of water, and organisms on the soil. This is official information sent by you. And our mountains are bad, the pines are sick, but the wood is also poor, so the pine tree isn't alone, but the whole mountain is sick. But there are also certain things which are worth in the mountains, rivers, springs of water, bottoms, plants, plants, country, neighbours, animals, birds, and not only pines. And will we risk all this without knowing the efficiency of the fumigation? And that's my next question, what's the efficiency of fumigation? Ministryak berak weretzun digu egin diogun gallera bati, eta horretan jartzen du: "The treatments carried out in New Zealand only against the red band, not against the brown band (...), they claim that the treatment is reasonable, effective in the ecological and climatic circumstances of that country". New Zealand. Zeelanda Berrikoak. Horretan eta Bakarrik xingola capriarentzat egyaztatu da eraginkortasuna, baina hemen, Euskadin, gure baldinza klimatikoetan eta ingurumenekoetan ez da ezer frigatu. And I'd say that the fumigations weren't new here, and weren't invented to hit the red ribbon. Here also we have the pine-belt, the procession, the fumigations have been made for a long time against the pine-belts. What was the answer to that treatment? What was the result? In 2013, the Ministry authorized the air's fumigations to treat 10,000 acres of pine, the next year to treat eight thousand acres. What's the effect? What was the answer? What have we done against the pinebells? Did we remove the pine caterpillar? No. Why? Because it's chronic, like a red ribbon. So my request and my question is, why don't you take off your order for fumigations, and why don't you look at the alternatives with a wide view? Yes, the condition of the pines, but the state of the mountains, and the policy and activities hitherto developed, which have failed, and with this vast view of climbing you will find other alternatives, more efficient and long-term. And I'll leave my first inventory here, waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u74	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u75	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. First, Mr. Becerra, it must be mentioned to your question, to the question you put in interpelation, in direct answer to the question that we are speaking of a possible treatment, because the use of the quador would always be admitted as an exception and as an exception treatment. I mean, because of the clitology of the year before, and we've done it before, and we've been in the neighbourhood of the stockade, something very well known, and indeed a disease actually in our different woods, but because of the extraordinary state of the year before, our forest, the forest of the pines has been carried away to an exceptional condition. So the treatment should also be taken in this sense, because the Ministry, as you have said, ought to accept it. After that you must say that you have, in some measure, examined the famous PDF subject; that is to say, we must plan it, then see what happened, examine it, and examine it at last, and examine it with the analysis. But that's a long time ago, when I'm working on my technist Neiker. Why? Because it's not the only disease. As you have mentioned, there are many of them who have our forests; and on the one hand the prevention is examined, and on the other hand the question is how to deal with these diseases. And here also is the case with the Chinese, how to deal with the fires. And that's what we're dealing with in the woods. In this sense, too, there is a project especially interested in us, an international project, especially in all places, which is a highly interesting project, and I am sure you know all these things. The project is European, and the name is Life Healthy Forest, "Early sequence and advanced manage systems to reducce forest decline caused by invasive and pathogenic agents." In this case, then, we consider what takes place in the woods, and how to deal with it, not only on the contrary, but on the whole European level, the most advanced centers of inquiry are placed, and the corporations are placed in the exercise of it. Therefore, in Euskadi we have been working for a long time on prevention and coping with different diseases that affect our forests, and in this case also the red band and the brown band that has affected us in an exceptional way because of last year's climatology. And not only the summer, but also the autumn, because in the autumn it has also continued to affect. The follow-up we are carrying out to our forests, moreover, we do not do it alone, not only does it by the Government together with Neiker, but we do so with the three outlaws who are really competent in the management of those forests and in the analysis and direct attack on what is happening. There are analyses of different types, in terms of the origin of diseases, in terms of the availability of epidemiological data, of what is happening, and in the most effective way to deal with each and every disease that may be occurring. In addition to analyzing – as you said, planning – in some way do what has been planned, measuring what has been achieved and, from there, making decisions to continue improving, which is the virtuous cycle in which we have to move, there are different research programs, but one specific one aimed at this disease, which I will tell you what we are specifically dedicated to from Neiker. In this specific programme for this disease, what is being done is to study the specific epidemiology of this disease – that of the red band and the brown band – in order to know the conditions that make it aggravate or improve the situation in terms of temperature, the time of development of fungi, production, location, origin and so on. Secondly, we want to determine the structure of the fungus population, which involves very detailed work in each of the areas of the different forests, where it is most aggressive, where less, why it affects some areas more and why it affects others less. It is therefore very concrete to analyse what is being done. We also investigate, as a third line, possible management strategies that include an evaluation of substances of curative or preventive effect of the disease. And we deal with cuprous oxide, yes, but also with other kinds of strategies and substances that allow us to evaluate what is happening. You said there's proven data in New Zealand, it's true. There are proven data in Chile as well. Climatology and the situation is diverse, of course. But also from Neiker it has been made together with the deputies, and especially that of Bizkaia in this case, a concrete analysis of the use of that oxide for which we are authorized, because what we are doing is to investigate, and it has been observed that it improves substantially and that in some cases even cures the disease. Therefore, at the level of research it is also being done here in Euskadi, at the level of research directly on the pine tree. What other things? We want to locate and reproduce material less sensitive to the disease, because if you look in detail, in some of the forests we have areas or even some trees, some pines, which are surrounded absolutely by band or pines affected by brown band and red band, which, however, remain perfectly healthy, and that means that there are some variables that make them remain healthy. We want to analyse or are looking at why they are healthy in the middle of a perfectly affected area and what impact is being produced in that particular area. In this way, we would have varieties that are resistant for some special reason to the condition of the area of the brown band and the red band. We are in contact with specialists from New Zealand who can help us improve those treatments that we are carrying out experimentally, and the Barcelona Center for Genomic Regulation is also carrying out a sequence of what is the fungus that is affecting us, and why the colony that is affecting us in Euskadi has this aggressiveness at a specific time, whether there is a genomic reason or not. A network of spore traps has also been established to monitor the development of the disease. More stuff. They are treating, not only copper oxide, they told him, but up to 70 different substances in that experimental treatment that we are giving, and we analyze not only the condition on the pine, so that it may or may not have healing effects, but we analyze all the environmental impact that it can have on all the fauna that may be in the environment, the condition on possible aquifers, whether they exist in the vicinity and on all the living elements that may exist in the surrounding areas, whether they be fauna or flora. They are then analyzing how they affect the disease and, in addition, how they affect the environment. I insist, 70 different substances. And in addition, there is an open line of research on bacteria present in the roots of healthy pines that have not come to affect those pines and that are surrounded by pines that are sick, but that, even affecting the roots, do not manage to reach the very pine that remains healthy. Well, an evolution of the disease is being made geographically, in addition, very detailed, allowing us to observe the progress according to the temperatures, the degrees of humidity and so on, and also allowing us to analyze whether this effect of humidity, of temperatures, has a special consideration in the situation in which we are in. We are also trying to improve what is the species of radiata pine with laboratory experimentation, in the greenhouse, of material from some other places. We are also using radiata pine from Chile and from New Zealand that have proven to be resistant to the disease in their corresponding places, to see if we can use them here. And we've been doing that treatment since Neiker for a while. But we are not only dealing with radiata pine, but we are also working with secuoya, cryptomeria and, ultimately, different types of the genus pinus. In short, the administrations are not only thinking of immediately attacking the disease so that it will allow us to stop the situation we have, but it is a much longer-term research and treatment that will allow us to have healthy forests in the future. And for the time being, this is what I have to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u77	You mentioned last year's meteorological condition and the effect of the meteorological situation on the red ribbon. And I agree with you, because climate change and variation in the near future, and still more in the distance, will be greater and greater, and the change of climate will always affect nature. And probably he's weakening plants and probably weakening them. Then we must consider that. We've also got to take care of them, and you've mentioned Neiker's investigations and all the interesting ones, all of which are necessary. And I congratulate you for doing so many things. But these are middle-term investigations, most of them, and probably the most effective. But the only measure you've proposed in the press was a short-term measure, and there's been fumigations. That's all you've proposed and that's the most disturbing thing for me. A number of investigations, and quickly you've invented a solution to calm the owner, because that climb is not the solution we need. You've been using the fat Oxido to make measurements and investigations, but you haven't been using them on a plane. Klaro, it's a very different offer. High-class Oxido is also used in the ecological farm, but not on a plane. And that's the difference. Because you spread the product on a plane and you know what's gonna happen to them in health or environment. And this is not New Zealand, this is not Chile. Here are farms, neighbours, springs of water everywhere, and, well, it's troubling. And you say he's studying. Good. So, if he's studying, why have you already proposed to him for fumigation? If they're investigating the influence, damage, impact, impact, why did you ask permission from the Ministry? And you're investigating, but you've ignored the most important odds. the influence of monoculative, the influence of the disease, and monoculative is the result of our national policy, the chief effect. And that's something you need to consider, too. That's why I asked you to plan a wide view and a wide view, because you introduced a plan, the Conifera Building, and no one has seen that strategy. You showed up last October, and no one knows anything about it. How could it be accepted? Where'd it go? What procedures have been used? What reports have been based on this strategy? And even the Medical Department and the Department of Environments, those departments didn't know anything about this plan. Eta irakurriko said Ingurumen Sailak weretzun zyguna, ikusteko zer-nolako plangintza makala egin duzuen horretaz: Response from the Department of Environment: "We were verbally moved that the implementation plan corresponded to the outlaws and that it is still under elaboration". Azaroan iszan zen hau. Zuek aurkeztu zenuten urrian eta azaroan Ingurumen Sailak weretzun zigun: "So this Department does not currently have detailed information regarding the possible plan of application of copper oxide by fumigation". So, how are you doing, and what are you doing, working on such interesting investigations, just to show up with the fumigations in the press?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u78	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u79	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Egia da, Becerra jauna, txostena beranduago bidali zela Ingurumen Sailera, bathe on which you are a gero. Eta jaso dugu weretzuna, sheath, URAtik, esan behar difut, zehazki irakuriko dut zer esaten duen: "Among the documentation, in addition to general information, can be highlighted for their interest in the matter of water, studies on the assessment of the environmental impact of copper fungicides and on copper levels in the channels following aerial applications of this substance mentioned in the introductory paragraph of this report, and whose results are subsequently commented on". I think, therefore, that the whole documentation sent to the Department of Environment is well prepared; they say, not I, but in the report we have received. It is true that at this moment, I repeat, we are in an exceptional condition, and the treatment required, according to the reports made, is an exception. Why? Because the situation needs more. We want to save our forest and save the sector, if we want to save the lumber cleaner, because something special has to be done. And that's the reason, we've asked for it, in a good sense, with well-prepared reports, and even the Ministry admits that they're well-trained reports and they're very well defined that they can be made with how and with what restrictions they'll see. And the other thing is whether the minister permits or not, but all the information and all the planning is well done and well prepared. It's another thing, too, we said. We're looking at 70 different compounds, and why at the moment have we decided to be a sleazy oxido? Well, because there are certain symptoms in the evidence that we do or have done, and also in the Eukadin, which is the treatment, the most effective, and because we need a short-term measure at the moment. We have many subjects to examine, and not those which have been begun yesterday, but many examinations which have been made for a very long period; but what we need now is something to change the term, and, as you have said, in the ecological agriculture, for instance, or in several places, and the treatment of our wine-makers about their own sector. Furthermore, I do have to say that there is scientific evidence to support the ability of copper oxide to stop the disease in the band, and that the European Plant Protection Agency reports that copper treatments are effective against this disease, as reported by the European Agency. And what we are saying is that, since it is an exceptional treatment for an exceptional situation, a rather exceptional form of treatment is allowed also in this case, and this is reflected in the regulations, which in exceptional situations can be authorised exceptional measures. However, our intention is to continue with the research that is being carried out in a rigorous manner and analyzing the treatment, both by air, in an experimental way, that for this we have authorization, as well as by land, and to analyze the difference that can occur both in the impact on the disease itself in the pine, as on the environment and the whole environment of that production. But we need to be aware that we are building on opinions from the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, which in December 2017 issued an opinion on copper that has not changed its authorisation. Then we are using or pretending to use in this exceptional situation, I insist, something which is endorsed by the EFSA itself and which has sufficient reports at European Union level. Then we are not trying to use anything especially harmful, we are careful and we want to be careful, but we will continue to try to stop the disease in the short term and to analyze the possibility of its stop and its alternative in the medium and long term. And, of course, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe asked me the same thing in December, monoculture in Euskadi not, less than 50% of the forest is pine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Your time is up. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Mireguon Ruiz de Gauna EH, made to the head physician of the Board of Education, about the Reformation." Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u81	Yes, thank you, and good noon, members of the legislative and friends, representatives of the fathers who have come. Yesterday, the parents and students from the Salkoi school came here, with the only cry, the new lecturer from 2019-2020, starting in the neighborhood, starting at the head of this September, and your department promised his parents, the manager and the neighbourhood in 2017. For ten years the neighborhood has asked for this school, that for ten years this school was needed in the neighborhood, that they have been forced to go to Zamara for six years, as long as they did so, two journeys every day, two trips and two trips, and four trips in all. You promised this and we're still on time to get started. So, the question is next, what will you do to fulfill the commitment?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u82	Thank you, ma'am. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u83	Mr. President of Parliament, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mrs. Thingon, considering your position in the Vitoria University Council, I understand that you know the plan of reconnaisssance of the neighbouring Sal and the Lingera, and the effect of this in the construction of the Reformer's Institute. On the 8th of March 2016, in the event I did in front of the Board of Education in this Parliament, to discuss the necessity of building the second school in the Salrea neighborhood, I made it clear that the government was engaged to promote this educational structure. So I want to remind you that the revision of the General Plan of the Scheduled City, which was started by Mr Maroto's government, has obviously delayed to acquire the usefulness and proper license of the site. Without further inquiry into the details and circumstances of this trial, as I have told you, we have been examined beforehand. As for the Board of Education, the establishments for construction began after the purchase of the licenses on February 23, 2017. From that moment on, all administrative actions provided for in the legislation of administrative contracts are promoted, which, as is known, represent as more important milestones the publication of the contract notice of works in June 2017, the signing of the contract of February 2018 and the recast verification record, which was on March 9, 2018. All these actions are of a marked technical nature, in particular by the competent contracting authorities. After the review report, the actual execution of the works begins. We are now at the final stage of the process. The centre will be available throughout the next course, as we committed ourselves, and the children of Errekabarri will be able to enjoy a new school.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u85	Yeah. She cried for ten years, but she was absent. Here it is said that some of your subordial departments have met with the direction of the office, the society of their parents, and the society of their neighbours, I will not say that I was in it, because I was not in it, they are here to say, they have come all over to tell me that. They say your department made that commitment. And I haven't heard you deny that yet, if that's a lie, I invite you to tell me, because we are asking the explanation. They may be understood if there are explanations, but then they must be given them. If the order was that of the most different departments, or of the delegate of the Education of Araba, who had told them that and if not so now, if it is not true, if you need to say that it was said or changed. That's what we're asking, what parents say, because what they're saying is that he's come to that engagement a year ago. And besides, we're still on time. I understand, as we all understand, circumstances happen, but we're in time. We are in time to make it possible still to fulfill the commitment that, supposedly, and if not denied here, was acquired by his department a year ago, both with the association of parents and with the management, being present the association of neighbors, if that is not so clear, because we give valid, of course, what has been transmitted to us by different instances, that that commitment was acquired. If it has not been acquired, let it be clarified, and, above all, we are in time to make it possible. We are in time for that commitment to be fulfilled, which I believe would be in everyone's favour. It's absolutely necessary in the neighborhood, I think it would be good for the department itself as well. Undoubtedly it is ideal for the center to start it already in the new facilities, to have made the transfer in the summer, to be able to use from the beginning – taking into account also the high degree of registration – the need for new stays, as is now also the Cadido school of Garibay. The point is that it is needed, it is urgent and we are in time to do so. Let's say again: What are you going to do – because that's the question and that's the key – your department to fulfill that agreement? That fourth agreement that we certainly believe – if not, then it is clear – and of course it is absolutely necessary. It's very simple. We have time, we have months, we can accelerate the works, we do not see, at least a priori, insurmountable obstacles for that to be done. It's many years of transfers, it's six years of having to mobilize, it's many minutes every day of very small kids with trips every day, eta aldarria da. We're asking you to do something from your department to fulfill that commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u86	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u87	Mrs Larion, the time limit for the execution of the work was initially set at 18 months in the contract, starting with the recast record, March 9, 2018. Do the math. We must be realistic and recognize that in every contractual process and even more so in the execution of works, it is very difficult to venture with certainty a date of completion, ezinezkoa da, since there are aspects that are being clarified throughout the work. For example, although meetings have been held with the AMPA and the centre's management, and the project-implementation – a project endorsed by the AMPA – was shared with them, they have subsequently requested and accepted changes such as changing the layout of the courtyards and increasing green areas. Technical amendments to the draft have also been made by virtue of the adequacy of the regulations. That is to say, the work has been delayed, and we hope the children of the refectory have a new school as soon as possible. It must also be observed, that after the work has been completed, and has received it, the rest of the means and equipment must be provided for in order to develop the state of education, independently of the permits necessary for the exercise of it. Technical accounts mark his future, if we want to satisfy him. Everything else is demagogue. Fathers have known the project itself and the deadlines since the beginning. To conclude, I mean, that the Board of Education itself is the first interest in the end of the work, and thus we have explained the new building to be engaged in the 2020 study of 2019. The new infrastructure we're holding up will favor educational quality. That's our last aim.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "Queen Martíni was asked by the lawmate of the Podemos to the head of the Board of Education to teach 2020 of the license plate."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u89	Yes, good morning. Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all. Today's the last day for a plate plate, and I'd like to take advantage of these last few moments to push the license plate to the public school and ask all families for their freedom. And I confess that this year's camp has been a good camp, but above all the different classes of education, and the pains which different families have made to direct this trial: In the streets of Ellipdub, the school effort... And at this moment, as it ends today, I want to know what ratings are made from the department in Biscay, from the Typian and from the Arban plates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u90	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u91	Mahaiburu andrea. Mr Martínnez, as we have elsewhere stated, regulate the process of plate-making by two regulations: On the one hand, the decree which regulates the process of accepting and educating the students, both in public schools and in private transactions under the treaty, receives even the criteria and the spleen. And, on the other hand, orders from December 19, 2018. By this means, the docked and rejected calendar to present requests are established, and the instructions of accepting students from 2019-20 of learning are accepted. Today, as you have said, it ends on February 8th, September 28th, the usual time for calling out requests in the previous fashion. Therefore, the opinion of the department, understood in the sense of assessing and analysing a concrete reality, cannot be carried out, as it cannot be otherwise, until the process is completed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u93	Says the Great Wyoming every day that "until now you have heard the news, now we will tell you the truth." Now we have heard the enrolment regulations, and now let's see what the reality has been. As you will know, on 25 January, and just three days after the start of the enrolment campaign, the Basque Government's Education Delegation in Araba rectified and finally accepted claims from several concerted centres in the city of Gasteiz on the pre-registration process. A last-minute change, which has allowed some concerted schools, most of them in Álava, to reward those who choose them as their first choice. And why this change? It'll have to do with other things that are outside the mathematical process. I don't know, I don't have the answer. A few days before, the treatyed private schools of Araba and the assemblies of the Education of Araba had had a meeting, and there those schools explained that those who chose their schools as their first alternative would give such an extra point, and that, as we thought, with good cricket and as the representatives of the Blanca Guerrero Institute had publicly explained, the government had declared that they would not accept it. That is to say, on a Monday it is felt that this is a discriminatory criterion and four days later it ceases to be a discriminatory criterion. What happened? Because something is missing from me, what happened or what changed in those four days? How do we have to understand this last-minute change, at the last minute, the last day it was going to be published? How is it that the Department of Education, through the enrolment criteria, discriminates, in the words of the Arab Education Delegate earlier, by maintaining that criterion? Is that so? That's my question. Data was written by at least 60% of the private network pact. In public network, from 40 to five. Besides, different public schools wanted to give more opportunities for families living in their neighborhoods, but this change cannot be made. Why? With this last-minute change, counselor, we say it again, what this department continues to perpetuate is a growing social inequality in the city of Gasteiz. And besides, I'm not saying it, there's this same week's report from Gasteiz City Hall that says the same thing again. There is an economic gap, a social and economic gap between the two networks. We're talking about equality again, not about anything else, about equality, the equality of education, and the betting of this government is two-speed nations, society and education system. We were just saying, at Christmas we were listening to the lehendakari talking about wanting a cohesive Euskadi, but then, a few weeks later, we have this new reality of a two-speed Euskadi also in the educational system. And the gap is economic. The gap that we have, and also in Gasteiz even more, and I say it again, the report of the City Council of Gasteiz is on the table, that gap is increasing more and more with these decisions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u94	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u95	Mr Martínez, the process of this 1920 study has had a great deal of nobedad in comparison of the years before, and these nods, on the one hand, are constantly in process of improving the administration's concentration, and, on the other hand, more important in proportion as they are proposed in the plans of the departments of equity. Thus we have the following: On the one hand, to give attention to the people, to the information and orientation points of various offices and social houses. In particular, 13 Gastenames, one of Bilbon's eight and arsons. These are coordinated by the school offices which had begun last year's march on the local settlements. On the other hand, giving the same degree of importance to all the options which have been applied to promote the distinction of chance with families. You're talking about calming, and every year, the number of schools to calm down proves that it's getting smaller and smaller, so that families have more chance of getting to the square at the school they want. Numbers. For instance, from the 107 colleges of the Arabs, it was only at 14 schools that it relaxed during the course of the year. And there'll still be less in this class. As I have already indicated, the general criteria of barredation set out in the decree, which range from the attendance of brothers and sisters in the centre, parents working in the centre, belonging to the school area, together with the income score, to personal and family circumstances, are the same for all the centres and applications, and the weight of the barredation and the result thereof rests mainly on them. In addition, there is the power of the OMR or the School Council to give scores to applications received at its centre. This is voluntary in nature and its limits are laid down in the regulations themselves and are public. This score is present in both public and concerted centers. In Álava 68 centers have chosen to award the power score of the School Council. Of these 68, 40 are public and 28 are concerted. And, in relation to the possibility of assessing the choice of the center in first choice, know that there are six public centers and eight concerted ones that have granted a point as allowed by the norm. This measure has been accepted as well as other proposed criteria since it is in no way a discriminatory element. I repeat, both in public and concerted centers. As regards the use of this point or part of it, the interpretation of the norm in the three territories has been harmonized. In any case, as we have been doing in previous exercises, at the end of the process we will analyze all the variables and evaluate the impact of the new measures incorporated for this course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is that Laura Garrido Könörre, a member of the Popula team, made to the head physician of the Medical Department, about the report of the international organization's business as to the report of Osa in the 2016-2010-7 LEP, which confirms irregularity." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u97	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, chief physician. The report of the institution of Ararteko made on its own initiative on the irregularities of the OPE of Osakidetza 2016-2017, can be said to corroborate these irregularities and clearly calls into question the guarantee of the principles of equality, merit and capacity, as well as the lack of transparency and impartiality throughout the process. The report again focuses on the election of the famous experts who have prepared the examinations, some of whom are also members of the courts and, in addition, the rest of the members of the court were unaware of this circumstance. The question, Mr. Counsellor, is still there, who has appointed the people who have prepared the exams? I have had the opportunity to have the assessment you made on this report in the first question, concerning the content of the report, which you consider to be positive. But I would also like to ask you, Mr. Counsellor, about a concrete and accurate assessment of this issue, in which the Ararteko report does stress that the fundamental issue lies with the people, the famous experts who prepared the reviews. That is why I ask you specifically on this issue, what opinion does the report deserve in relation to its conclusions on this particular aspect?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u98	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u99	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok, Sailburuok, Garrido andrea, egun on berriro. As I have already observed, we are grateful for the reports and recommendations of the intermediary in his report. In general, it is a good and positive rating we do. As we pointed out on the same day that the Ararteko report was made public, and in line with what we have responded in this House this morning, from the Department of Health and Osakidetza we appreciate the recommendations of the Ararteko and we welcome the report. As you yourself pointed out in your question, the report completes an intervention by the Ararteko, and in it an analysis is carried out of the operational management of the selective processes from the results, not previously; essentially the report, if you have had the opportunity to read it, will see how it analyzes what Osakidetza has done from the realization of the selective tests and justifies why it has not entered into the above. The report highlights many of the actions followed by Osakidetza and emphatically highlights the full cooperation and transparency offered by both the VATP and Osakidetza throughout the process. The report does not at any time question either the general bases or the specific bases of the 2016 OPE. Moreover, it recognizes that the trade union agreements reached in the sector table pre-agreement of 23 June 2017 have defined the organizational configuration. It highlights the measures promoted by the Department of Health and Osakidetza to clarify and complete the OPE with guarantees. He appreciates the psychometric reports, acknowledges that Professor Jiménez Asensio's report is of great value and interest and, with regard to the decisions taken by the Human Resources Directorate of Osakidetza, Mrs. Garrido, the report concludes, and I read it textually, "which have been reasoned and reasoned decisions and are documented". Therefore, as I have said, we take the documents of the intermediary as positive, and we will endeavour to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u100	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u101	Yes, Mr. Counselor. Well, I've had the opportunity to read the report carefully, like you, and you also told us that they're analyzing it in the department itself. But apart from making a positive assessment of the report, I have made a specific assessment of an issue on which I also believe that the report emphasises, and you also know that one of the recommendations is aimed at the elaboration of selective evidence, which one of the recommendations expressly points out that they should be drawn up by the court itself. And today, Mr Councillor, this group has repeated this question on numerous occasions, in successive parliamentary appearances, in this rostrum, we still do not have the answer of who gives the list, whose responsibility it is to provide the list of persons who prepare the examinations. I believe that this is not a baladi question, Mr Councilman, I think it is crucial to know who provides that list of examinations, who people prepared the examinations, as I say to you, question that remains unanswered, despite the repeated questions from this group, I believe that this question, like other questions, is still unclarified. This is a fundamental issue, because when there are suspicions of leaks, we know that this whole issue is now being analysed by the courts and by the Prosecutor's Office there are specific investigations and proceedings taking place, when there are suspicions of leaks of absolutely well-founded examinations and with results that also suggest that there have been such suspicions, because this is a question that needs to be answered. And I believe that you have a responsibility to answer, as do other questions. I believe that the role of the courts has not been properly respected by Osakidetza, the Osakidetza Directorate, and, in this regard, we have already placed on the table and have denounced the guardianship that has also been exercised over the courts, since it is recommended that the examinations be repeated. We still don't know why some tests have been repeated and others haven't. If irregularities were not so important or non-existent, why are some tests repeated? Why can't one and the other? We still do not know the reasons for opening some of the information dossiers. That is to say, too many controversial issues, Mr Councilman, still on the table and what we wanted through this question was for you to give us an assessment, apart from telling us that you value positively the content of the Ararteko report, which we share and at the same time want to underline the effort made.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u102	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u103	Garrido the walker. I have not seen in the report I have read that there have been leaks that are confirmed, or that anyone has shown evidence to the interrogator. However, as you know, the prosecutor has opened an investigation, and the prosecutor on our side will continue to be a whole settlement, as it has been. Mrs Garrido, I think you know the questions you have asked, because, regardless of the fact that Parliament has been provided with all the information, the same information that Osakidetza has, you have been able to consult all the documentation, both of the psychometric reports and of the dossiers, as well as what has been raised here in the committees, such as the conversations that people from Osakidetza and I have had with you. Then you're asking me something you already know. The report, if you have read it as well as I do, clearly reflects that the Human Resources Directorate has the responsibility to relate to the VATP and no one escapes that in the procedures it is the VATP that defines the people who place the first exams. And then, as you will have read well, the report also has some controversial aspects between different parts of Ararteko's own report. In any case, the Ararteko report in no case demonstrates that there has been any irregularity and the Ararteko makes it clear since the introduction, and it clearly reflects that it has been absolutely transparent with the Ararteko, both from the VATP and from Osakidetza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u104	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Cristina Macazaga Sáenz, together with the members of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, concerning the recommendations of the Ardreans on the LEPs of 2016-197." Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u105	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good afternoon to all. Darpón jauna, on 24 July, resolutions 754, 755, 756/2018 concerning the tests of anesthesiology, cardiology and angiology, which required the repetition of the tests, were adopted. As we have been denouncing, and also explains the Ararteko report, it was the Human Resources Directorate of Osakidetza, after preparing the relevant reports, that submitted to the courts concerned the taking into consideration of certain decisions, and then, after giving them the opportunity to decide, assume the ultimate power to decide on the repetition of the evidence. Elkarrekin We can, on the 24 October Commission, question, as the Ararteko does in his report, the justification that Osakidetza developed for the repetition of some evidence and not others, a totally arbitrary decision, made quickly, to quickly cover the scandal without a serious investigation. Faced with the repetition of the tests of anesthesia, angiology and cardiology, Elkarrekin Podemos defended the need to remodel the courts of these specialties, in order to be able to repeat the examinations with all guarantees, as well as the Ararteko by his recommendation number 12. And you and the groups supporting the Government, PNV and PSE, have repeatedly denied this possibility, arguing that there was no legal requirement to allow for the removal of members of the court from their post. They have insisted on the functional autonomy of the courts to justify repetitions, when it has been clearly proven that it was Osakidetza who took the decision. Now that Ararteko in his report makes it possible and recommends, moreover, the renewal of the courts whose evidence is to be repeated and does so on the basis, moreover, of rulings of the Supreme Court, in which the existence of ensuring the impartiality of the selective process makes it necessary to understand the renewal of the composition of the qualifying court and believes that Osakidetza should have considered the appointment of new courts as the only way to ensure the objective impartiality, in any case preserving the presumption of innocence of the members of those courts. You don't need to wait any longer, Mr. Darpón. After the report was published, we learned from the press that it accepted and very willingly shared the recommendations made by Ararteko about the OPE in Osakidetza following irregularities detected in some medical tests and ensured that it would incorporate them in the future. He has repeated it again today in this House and without the apex of self-criticism, by the way. He repeated his mantra: they will work on improvement measures, they will culminate the current OPE with all guarantees. With what guarantees, Mr. Darpón? Because it is about ensuring equal opportunities in access to public employment, and you did not guarantee it, and I have doubts as to whether you are willing to do so now. As Ararteko mentions in his report, the suspicion of filtration has given rise to a major alarm and social mistrust, alarm generated by the frauds of the OPEs doped by Osakidetza and fattened by their mismanagement. Elkarrekin Podemos has asked to clean up responsibilities, and neither you nor the lehendakari have been up to it; they have worked to hide the scandal and now work to hide it from you. That is why I ask you the following question: Will Osakidetza accept the recommendation number 12 of Ararteko, which says to proceed to the renewal of the composition of the courts in the eventual scenario of repetition? Yes or no, you tell me, Darpón.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u107	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok, Sailburuak. Make it go away. I'll read you what you haven't read. Recommendation No. 12 contained in the Ararteko report states that "in view of a possible scenario of repetition of evidence under suspicion of filtration, the composition of the courts is renewed". "That in the face of a possible scenario of repetition of tests under suspicion of filtration." As you are well aware, today the decision to repeat the examinations is a decision in three courts that is conditioned by the existence of various remedies in the administrative litigation, and, for the time being, the judges have not made a firm decision on respect. Moreover, the claims have corresponded to different courts and the judicial orders regarding the provisional suspension of repetition of evidence have been of different sign. Specifically, one that usually accompanies you on press conferences, denied, which confirms the complexity of the decisions to be taken. Therefore, in case you have any doubts, I repeat what we have already pointed out to both Ararteko himself in writing and today in this House: after analysing the report, we appreciate positively its content, all the recommendations and, once the relevant legal analysis has been carried out, we commit ourselves to including his contributions in the proposal that Osakidetza is evaluating. While you focus on demanding the cessation of court members and taking this issue as a flag, that is not the recommendation made by Ararteko. I remind you again, the decision to repeat or not the five evidence is in the courts, and for now there is no firm sentence. It is easy to understand that decisions of the public administration, in this case of a government-dependent public body, on courts or other matters, should be taken in accordance with the recommendations of its legal services. You will also understand that at the expense of Do not worry, therefore, because we will make the right decisions when we have to make them and we will do so with all the legal guarantees, whether you like it or not. It will also allow me, in the minute and 40 seconds that I have left, to remind you of Ararteko's recommendation number three, which we also take on board: it invites all the agents involved to take on a special commitment not to renounce the incorporation of new improvements and innovations, a recommendation that seems to you to be obvious. Elkarrekin Podemos is the only group, the only group in this House that has expressly rejected, and also in writing, to participate in the work that the Department of Health and Osakidetza have organized to present to Parliament a new model of OPE. It is seen that Elkarrekin has declined to participate because he accepts the recommendations when he likes them and not when he does not like them. I'll tell you again. The Department of Health, Health and Osakidetza will accept the 12 recommendations and follow the Ararteko approach, as long as the legal services are compliant. So if you want to improve the next EPEs, you'll be welcome on the team we created. And in conclusion, though we have said more than once this day, I shall tell you that we accept the report and recommendation of the Arlias. Of course, the recommendations or measures proposed must be a legal study, and propositions made by all other agents. Eskerrik asko Mrs. Macazaga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u108	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interregation, myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Basque Society, made for Cultura and the chief of the political teams of the European football teams as the final residence of San Mames." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u109	Thank you, Madam President, good afternoon, everyone. Mr Councilman, today the truth is that the question I ask you, the questions I ask you, I hope will be in a better climate than we have had on other occasions, because I believe that depending on what you answer, it is even for the very sake of the Government and the institutions involved in this question. Because we are presenting an initiative related to San Mamés, with a field of which we have to be proud all the Vizcains and all the Basques. An inquiry, whether or not it might lead to an initiative, whether one looks at it exclusively from the sporting point of view, or from the point of view of the general interest of the citizenry, apart from any kind of political party interest, because anyone could support it. We are asking you today about the possibility that San Mamés will be the venue for an end to a European club competition. And, as I said, it is clear that this initiative has no political connotation, but exclusively of a sporting and economic nature. And why do I tell you about economics? Because when international sporting events have been held in Bilbao, in the Basque Country, the economic benefits have been very clear, and for not boring you I will give you two examples. The European rugby finals that took place in Bilbao had a direct economic impact in Euskadi of €37.66 million, and although not all the expectations that at the time were generated, however, for Bilbao and Bizkaia the direct economic impact was 28 million, compared to an initial investment of €525,000. Of the 84,000 spectators who came to Bilbao, 50,500 attendees came from outside of Euskadi and came from 50 countries. The finals were seen by 115 countries around the world, the attendees spent an average of 3.1 days, with an average expenditure of 153 euros, being the average expenditure on travel, meals and purchases of 136 euros per person per day. Of those who came, 80% indicated that they intended to visit Bilbao and Euskadi again in the next two years, and 91% said that they would recommend Euskadi as a tourist destination. And with regard to the population of Bilbao, 86% felt that it had been a hugely positive impact. If we put another sporting event, for example, the cycling tour, because it had an audience of about one and a half million people only in Spain, and it was broadcast to 190 countries with 400 million spectators. Only on the night of overnight stay that was made in Bizkaia brought with it 300,000 euros, apart from other benefits. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, it is clear the economic, advertising and image benefits that for Bilbao, for Bizkaia and, therefore, for Euskadi supposes such events, not only because Bizkaia and Bilbao are part of Euskadi, but because Euskadi is a very small country, and it is a country in which if one comes to visit Bilbao because inevitably goes to other parts of Euskadi. And if with rugby, if with cycling we have these results, because what moves football has an undeniably much larger dimension. The Basque Government is part of San Mamés Barria together with BBK, the Bizkaia Provincial Council, Bilbao City Council and Athletic itself, so this Government has the opportunity to know and to promote, to know how, if necessary, the celebration of a European final in San Mamés. There are three fundamental competitions. It's true that the jewel of the crown, the one that would bring the most would be the final of the Champions. We, I tell you honestly, I myself have tried to get UEFA to say exactly what the requirements are, because beyond what we can know through the media, in the Rules themselves what it says is that "the organisation will decide". We speak unofficially of the aphores, but we do not know exactly if it is a written norm the aphore of more than 70,000 spectators, in which case, San Mamés would not be able to accept it. But in any case, it is not the only competition the final of the Champions, there is also another competition that is the Europa League, already held at the time in San Mamés that final, and it is also a first level event that fits perfectly the dimensions of the city and the dimensions of the field. And finally, there is a third European final, the Super Cup of Europe, which is the one that faces the two winners of the Champions and the Europe League, which, although traditionally celebrated in Monaco, has been held in others since it left that stadium. The weight of sports, the economic weight has been infinitely higher, with which it would also be a good competition. In any case, we are talking about first-level competitions whose direct and indirect economic impact is difficult to quantify and intangible, but we believe that they will all agree that it is huge. We are talking not only, as I say, about the economic impact that it would produce in Bilbao, in Bizkaia, in Euskadi, but about the image that would be given of Euskadi, that this event would be broadcast to a large number of countries and, therefore, it is a safe value, especially when we are talking about football, because it is obvious and we all know it, that football moves thousands and thousands of citizens, and if it is organized well, success is more than guaranteed. And I believe that in Bilbao, in Bizkaia, in Euskadi, it can be organized very well. It is true that it represents a challenge, a challenge obviously from an organizational point of view, a challenge for our hotel services, a challenge for our restaurants, but I think we would be able to meet that challenge. It would also be a security challenge, but I also believe that from the security point of view we are up to it, as we are up to it in the means of transport, so I believe that we do not lack any of the necessary circumstances to organize it. We are faced with an opportunity, because that would mean a window, of course, unbeatable. In addition, let me take out the breasts of St. Mamés, I think it is, from the fields in Euskadi, the one that can best host an end of these characteristics. It is classified by UEFA as a category 4 stadium, the highest rating given to a stadium, and we also have a city, Bilbao, also worthy to show. With this we have all the ingredients to organize and succeed in an event of these characteristics. What does it take? The impulse, the impulse of all and also the political impulse, of course. When this was raised, it has already been raised in another institution, we have been told that we were late, that is, that this was already under way, that it is already being planned, that that is true, that it appeared in some medium of communication and that the appropriate procedures had already been made. Let me tell you that normally Basque institutions are used to us that when something is organized, or has already been decided, or steps have been taken, it is usually announced in a bowl and dish; and of course, a bowl and dish in relation to this topic has not been. So what we want to know is whether it is true that there has already been much progress, if the question is very advanced, that you here tell us what steps have already been taken, if it has already been decided in San Mamés Barria. If it has already been communicated to the Federation, what has been the response of the Federation, because obviously the procedures are not short procedures, they are procedures that require a time, not only the request is there, then you have to submit a file, you have to decide, obviously there is never a single city, with which you have to try if you want to organize to be the best positioned to grant us. We would like you to answer these questions and see exactly how the question is right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u110	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u111	Mrs. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Good morning to you, Mrs. Llanos. I'll be honest with you. I do not know whether there is any initiative in the sense that you have put forward. And if there is, I'm not in the ointment and I'm not in the secret. I don't belong in that realm of intimacy. And all I know about this is what I've read in two Vizcay media outlets. The most recent news is from January 27th, which is an interview with El Correo In the interview the journalist asked this question to Mr Rubiales: "Are you going to ask for a European final for San Mamés?". To what the president of the Federation replied: "If the Athletic asks." And then he began to sing the goodness of San Mamés, as a fantastic field, "this stadium is a reference point in modernity right now, and it is certainly a place to take into account in Europe," he said. He added: "There is another very important issue, the history of Athletic, which is very important in Spain and Europe. Athletic has a unique philosophy that I respect and admire. He is a reference in Spain and in the world...". And I close quotes because he didn't add anything else. When I read the interview, I remembered other information I had read in the Deia newspaper. In it the author of the chronicle, although he did not quote any recognizable sources, said: "Bilbao has been revalued and the same partners of San Mamés Barria, Athletic, Diputación Foral de Bizkaia, BBK, Gouvernement Vasco and City Council of Bilbao, resume "It's an old idea," he said, "that it's no other than to present the candidacy to host in a future not far away a final of the Europe Football League, which they already surveyed with the Spanish Federation years ago." And he added: "Bilbao wants more and in his point of view emerges to organize an end of the Europe League". And in the following paragraph he said: "San Mamés and the city meet the requirements required by UEFA and it is only left to formulate, manage and convince the Spanish Football Federation that it is the one that has to submit its candidatures to the European body". As you have said, Mrs Llanos, we are a small country, but we have always assumed that we have the ambition to show our identity, our culture, our landscapes, our way of being and living, our way of working or our gastronomy, both by projecting us abroad and attracting international visitors, have that visit a cultural, economic or solace objective. And that is what I can tell you in the face of the question you have asked me. I confess to you – I insist – that what I know about this possibility is what I have read in the media, and if you have any other information, I would appreciate it if you would send it to me and I promise you that we will analyze it with interest. In any case, thank you for your interest and initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u112	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Counselor. Fundamentally thanks for the sincerity, because the truth is that it has not given us much. And look what I thought I was going to give it to us, but basically because of what I told you before. It is true, when we ask ourselves, first, how was the issue, and then, if necessary, to make an initiative precisely to support, to start the efforts, to finally get something because obviously I believe that if there is, as I said, a partisan interest not to give to an initiative proposed by someone who is not the least attention from the government and not to give it water... I believe that the benefits of all kinds for Bilbao, for Bizkaia and for Euskadi are notorious and, of course, denying the goodness of that initiative would not be possible. Yes, I thank you, well, that you did not say here today, as was said in the Bizkaia District Council, that we were already late; as was said there that we were already late, of course, because I thought then that the subject would be very advanced. It will be very advanced and there will be a series of actions, because it is true, as I say to you, that when we proposed this initiative, we had the same news that you said here, that you have brought out here, that it was that of, well, following the celebration of the European rugby finals, that interest that, it is true that it did not place who was the author that highlighted this interest, but of formulating, managing and convincing the Spanish Football Federation to submit the candidatures. And I told you that the other day when this was asked, it came to be said that it required strategy, work, continuous work, international relations, with which I thought that was already done, and if it is done, that obviously the Basque Government, as I say, as one of the owners of the field in which the end is to be hosted, should you say that it is not in secret, because it should be in your case in secret, in the ointment, call it whatever you want. Because it's true, I was telling you, it's not simple. For example, last year, when Munich, which wants to host the end of 2021, already submitted the application last year and has to file the file. I'm talking to him for two years. I mean, if we want to host one, well, we have to count on the deadlines, not the deadlines for next year. A procedure must then be carried out, which must be decided in advance in San Mames Barria and which must then be decided, if necessary, in the Federation, which must submit it to the UEFA Executive Committee. That is, once the request has been accepted, to submit, the file that all the requirements are met, not only from the field, because what Mr Rubiales said about the kindnesses is neither advertising nor much less misleading. It is true, it is one of the best European and most beautiful fields, with which I believe that as a country, as a city, as a territory, Euskadi is perfectly prepared to host it. But for that, as I said, political will is needed, it is necessary to start the procedures. Honestly, as I say to you, after what was said in the Bizkaia District Council, I thought that these procedures were very advanced and that today you were going to be able to tell us exactly what was done and what was missing to be done. But, in any case, we will continue, and of course I believe, as I said to you that it is an initiative against which no one can be against, I believe that all the institutions and all the political parties will be there so that, in their case, something that transcends sports can be seen in Bilbao and in Bizkaia and in Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u114	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u115	Mrs. Llanos. Indeed, the Basque Government is one of the shareholders of San Mames Barria, which, I remind you, is an instrumental society that was created to support the financing of the new stadium and to address the tasks of building and exploiting it. But in that 2012 agreement that established this society, the institutional partners gave exclusive responsibility to Athletic for the management and exploitation of San Mames. I therefore believe that, from any point of view, it is clear that it is not for the Basque Government to take any initiative in the sense that you have proposed. But I insist and repeat that if any possibility arises in this regard, the Government will analyse it. Whenever there has been any opportunity to attract to the Basque Autonomous Community some high-level sporting event and it has been considered that it could result in a property relevant to the Basque Autonomous Community, the Basque Government has committed itself to its organization and financing. And we will support all events that are of economic, sporting, cultural or social interest for the international promotion of Euskadi, and for the benefit of its economic activity or for the enjoyment of its citizenship. That's how we've done it so far. You recalled the success of organizing the European rugby finals, which were held in May 2018 in San Mamés. We can also quote next May, in Vitoria the Final Four of the Euroleague Basketball will be held, which emerged as a result of an initiative adopted by Baskonia. We were approached, with the knowledge of the Euroliga, and proposed this possibility. In this regard, I also anticipate that 2020 will be held in Getxo the world championship of sokatira, that we will organize the Basque institutions and that it is a direct consequence of the international recognition that the Basque Federation of Sokatira, accepted at the international level as another federation. It seems to me that perhaps if you would help us to achieve the international recognition of the Basque Football Federation, which we have promoted, it would be easier for us to put that request to the Basque Federation and to put it to the UEFA. All we need is that UEFA recognition and we are going to commit ourselves to it. I don't know if we're gonna make it. Therefore, I insist that any possibility that comes to our attention and deserves to be studied and supported will count on our support. Anyway, from his words and from my ignorance or ignorance, I assume that we do not have any initiative at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u116	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Rebeka Ubera and EH Collectations to the head of the Security department, to talk to them about letting the fine be inflicted on the citizen identified by the demand of the Border." Mrs. Ubera is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u117	Good noon, everyone. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, unacceptable. Unacceptable is the conduct of your boys and girls, which is going on from the 21st of May 2018: the conduct of authority, of right, of freedom of expression, and of information... And whether you like it or not, you're the boss. Is that your standard edge model? Is that it? And I'm not gonna ask you to apologize today, no. Because you apologized, but it didn't work. For an apology afterwards supposes a change of conduct, and there has been no change of conduct in you. I won't ask you today what you'll do to take the fine from the young man who was torn by the rights of language. I'll demand it today. We're asking you today. I don't like the term too much, but you've made us use of it. Today I demand you: one was fined to take away the fine of the young man, two to deprive the intelligent journalist of his accusation, three to take measures to correct the conduct of the Border. As you say in your assembly, you will be assured that what has happened should not happen again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u119	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Ms. Ubera, the prejudice of your question is wrong. And then you're making a decision to open the filer that's been reported to a citizen and tell him about it. And that's not true. On the 21st May 21, Donostian Square, there was a convention called Ernai. But no warning was given. The law ruled that way, but they didn't do it either in the border or in the City Hall. That's why a hoodlum came up to them and began to identify the managers. As a result of this identification, two sanctioning files were opened on the grounds that there was an infringement of the Citizenship Security Act. The first file, that of the person responsible for the unreported concentration, has already been settled for prompt payment; the second file has just been opened, its processing has just begun and the reason is obstruction to the authority in the legitimate exercise of its functions. Accordingly, Madam Ubera, this is the first thing to be explained; there is no declaration of fine or punishment, made for the sake of an eumancipation, either that day or ever.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u120	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u121	Miss Beltrán de Heedia, can you see my face? Are you kidding me? Really? It's very smart on top of the video. It's a very smart video. Besides, the young people are identified and identified by the young man who is young, and it is plain that there is a language conflict. It's identified and when they start talking about euscipating, then the conflict starts here. And that's the obstacle to authority? Instruction? Is that for you? Look, your kids and girls need to understand that the rights of the community are guaranteed and not to beat the people. Your girls and boys must understand that the language here is official, and that everyone in town has the right of language, because it looks like it's the motto of the edge, so you can put a Basque in your life to beat a young man or a journalist. That's what it looks like, the motto of the edge and the compass, unfortunately. And the bordering need to understand that the journalists have to do their job, what are the reporters for? Inform them, right? They must finally understand that your girls and girls are the basis of democracy, freedom of expression, etc. And if they don't understand that, those kids are superfluous for the edge, or maybe they're too much for the security department, because they can't establish these fundamental principles of the Archauts.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u123	Mrs. Ubera. It's all about demagogy. You're saying it's all about demagogy. I've mentioned them before.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u124	Mrs. Ubera, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u125	Two file files, that's not for talking about eucalyptic. Eta gain here you talk about that training, that they lack training, that how it has to be attitude. I have made it clear to you that the file opened, of the two files opened on the occasion of that unreported concentration, one of them was precisely because it was not communicated; the person who became responsible resolved that file for prompt payment. The second person, who was identified as obstructing, obstructing the work of the Ertzaintza: it is a file that has been initiated, a sanctioning file, therefore, regulated perfectly and therefore in a procedure that has just been initiated. It is up to all kinds of claims, remedies, evidence, until its final decision. But, again, the file has not been opened either by speaking in Basque, or by asking to speak in Basque, that has to be made clear. Do not attempt to confuse, do not attempt to confuse, or mix things up, because it is meridianly clear and, as I say, the person who considers that it has not been so, is in a procedure that is guaranteeing, therefore, that claims, presents the evidence, appeals. Well, fortunately we have those procedures that give us the guarantees. So, that's where I send you. I insist, do not do pedagogy (sic Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u126	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of María del López de Ocariz lópez de Muninka, a member of the Popilative Groups of Tourism, commerce, and Kotsumos, about the future of Eukadicus Turistis." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councilman, almost a year ago, on 20 February 2018, we adopted a unanimous motion in this House urging the Government to define and promote, as soon as possible, the nature and functions of the Euskadi Tourist Observatory, together with industry agents and the tourism table within the framework of the Strategic Plan Tourism, Trade and Consumption 2017-2020. We also urged him to report to Parliament, mainly to the groups of the House, before four months, June 2018, on the conclusions reached at that table and working group. To provide the Basque Tourist Observatory with the necessary technical and human resources to respond effectively to the requirements of a public system of competitive tourism intelligence. We also urged that the observatory include indicators necessary to determine whether the Basque tourism sector is moving towards a model of greater added value, more diversified from the territorial point of view and more sustainable from the perspective of its social and environmental impact. Finally, we told him to maintain the activity of the observatory as of now, as soon as those new structures that will be designed for this model of the Basque Tourist Observatory come into force, and we would like to know how he has complied with this unanimous agreement in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. To answer, Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, so with work, with a lot of work. So much so that I don't know if I'm going to be able to explain it in these four minutes that I have surgery, and I apologize if I look like a machine gun. We created the department's statistical body approved at the Governing Council meeting on June 18, 2018. This body already updates and publishes the statistical information of the department: Ibiltur, Familitur, Frontur, employment in the tourism sector and activities of the tourism offices, as well as other indicators of the commercial sector. All this information is published on the department's website, in the "statistics" tab. In addition, this body is working on the development of a new Euskadi tourist intelligence monitor that includes the following sections: tourist demand, tourist movements, tourist spending, tourist offer, transport, comparison with other autonomous communities, economic data from the tourism sector, tourist profile. This monitor is hosted in beta version on the departmental website and offers information in an integrated and graphical way. The first version was released on December 21, 2018. Basketball. In addition to other studies he has obviously continued to do – reputation, active listening... – and in line with the department's goal of developing a tourist observatory for current needs, Basquetour has carried out two relevant projects. One, pilot intelligent tourist destination in Donostia/San Sebastián. Among its objectives is the digitization of the destination, which results in the production of data. It began in February and its results were presented last November. Two, pilot Bilbao Smart Tour. Among its objectives is to obtain statistical data on the behavior of the visitor in destination, the placement of tags and publication of the app was made by October 2018 and the pilot started in December and will end this February. In addition, to facilitate access to the studies produced by Basquetour, we have renewed the website. On June 21, 2018, the data dump and the open publication of the website were made under the domain www.basquetour-berria.eus. The domain www.basquetour.eus is hosted on SPRI servers, and this is where we intend to flip the page for visibility reasons, but migration at the moment has not been possible due to technical problems on SPRI servers. That's why we keep the double page. – updated both – waiting for the definitive hosting. And finally, as I announced then, we made a diagnosis with Segittur. In April 2018, we contracted with Segittur – the State Society for the Management of Innovation and Technologies in Tourism – a study-diagnosis for the implementation of a tourist intelligence system, based on a comprehensive analysis of different data sources. The process has followed several phases, until 27 September this year, the results of the analysis and a catalogue of sources were delivered. 68 data sources, 32 territorial entities, 16 national entities, 10 international entities and 10 private entities have been identified. Part of the results have been used to implement the Euskadi tourist intelligence monitor I was talking about earlier. But, in several cases, the proposed sources require an economic disbursement that we must adjust to our budgetary possibilities, for which we will use the planned return analysis of the public policies of the ISEAK foundation that we are in the process of agreeing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u130	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u131	Yes, counselor, we know you've done things. But it is true, that we have received communication from many noise agents who notice when looking for things. And, therefore, what we understand and what they transmit to us is that this requires an order, to have a structure that is agile, that is understandable, that is visible and that can have easy access. And that seems like it's not happening right now. There is still a screen in Basquetour from the observatory that doesn't lead anywhere. It's still on. So, we don't say they haven't done anything, there are things, but we think it's a totum revolutum and we were one day working with a sector agent to search and get to the information, and believe me it's not easy. Therefore, I believe that this requires one order, and moreover, mentioned to us the statistical body, well, you did the Decree of Statistics, logically because your department is a department cut from another, and you had no organ and good because you were obliged to do so, to maintain the statistics of the Government, but it does not provide what the tool does not really do of what we believe should be an observatory, which would be for the agents of the sector to feed, feed on information, information that identifies the trends of tourism, that identifies the demands, that intelligently manage information, knowledge, yet that is not. He has told us of some difficulties that I have not come to understand, because of the speed that you have given to the intervention, that I will read them, but we believe that there is a lack of order, and a lack of depth in some things, and that we must make a tool that can be available to all agents and that is agile, visible, and that really serves. I saw how Fatur presented the FaturNext Observatory, which I believe has very important objectives in the work of identifying, analysing, disseminating tourism models that generate positive impact. I think it's being done and it's become a very powerful tool, and that's what we have to get to, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Retortillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, I told you that the website of Basquetour, we have renewed it, and we loaded it in June, we obviously intend to put it in the place of greater visibility with the old address, basketballtour.eus, but, as I told you, the servers – I don't understand it very much, really – the servers have some language problems, and therefore they didn't fit the new one and were in exchange for the servers. And that's why we keep the two web pages, in the two directions I've told you, and in the new one there is a specific tab for studies, because, indeed, on the old page, to look for studies, for example, you have to go to the search engine and it's much more cumbersome. This is the website. And as I tell you, we have developed a tourist intelligence monitor, which covers many more variables, which is still in beta phase, but is on the way to creating what you were saying.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-08.u134	Thank you, Mr. Retortillo. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty.
