ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the first point will be discussed in the third place, and the third in the place of the first. Third point in theme list: "Moution, introduced by the members of the Congress of the Council, Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Collect, in the prospect of the danger of losing a whole youth's generation. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Estarrona, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, today we could start this plenary as if nothing had happened around us, as if we were not plunged into a democratic anomaly, and this very week leaders, politicians, political representatives, social activists have been sentenced to prison for bringing democracy to its maximum expression, which is nothing other than giving the people the floor. That is why, from Euskal Herria, we want to send a hug to the Catalan people, to all those people who come out on the street to defend democracy. Know that you have our solidarity, our strength and our strength. I, above all, knew you weren't alone. Dream Catalonia free! And there is no doubt that the state which inhabits the people of Catalonia affects our young men directly, because, after all, civil and political rights in a state which are not guaranteed, they can hardly be confirmed by any other and other social rights. And therefore we follow our way, drawing by degrees the example of the Euscal Republic to come, to our descendants, to our children, to erect a worthy people for our young ones. That's the sense that the appeal to the president we've brought here today to discuss the risk of losing a very young generation in front of his plans for losing a whole young generation of people. And I believe that this event is well recapitulated by the manner in which young men suffer in presence of the rude state of government. The Diagnostic compatriots, to show that we challenge the people, but in formulas and measures to prevent it, because more carefully, he's probably been more worried about the perception of Affirmative and his own practice. They might begin by looking at the measures and measures of structure, although these measures and measures are probably not so much selling and echoes of public opinion, because they will not produce in a short period of time, but if we really challenge the people, it is indispensable to jump in public policies addressed to the young, even though in a short period of time they have no results. It is an international day to conclude with the poor, and it is necessary to accuse that it is unacceptable that our young men move between the prevarication and unemployment of the Euscal Autonomia in Er member 2008, because from that time onwards they have no tendency to fall down, and that our young men move between poverty and unemployment: a high rate of unemployment, temporary impassivity, partial contracts, and premeditations. For this reason, it is also essential, as I said, to take a leap in public policies designed to respond and solve the problems of young people. And that is also reflected in the agreement that we have reached today, which, in our view, is a turning point in the action of this Government because, as I said, the Basque Government, to date, has been more concerned and dedicated to doing what it does or seems to be doing what it actually does. And young people are not fools, much less. And in fact, this table of Youth Portraits is very significant. The young men observe that what this government does in its office and in the house is but few, or that it is not effective. They say: You know, it's just that I'm working and I'm not doing it, but that's what I'm doing. And why do young people not test the government in their own work, their jobs, and their dwellings? Well, we think it's very simple, in order to answer these two columns, for hitherto the formularies have produced no results. Plans like the First choice or the Young Friend are no longer valid. Such plans, such preparations, have a form of complementary, which lead to conclusions which do not go to the foundation. And to appeal to the basis of these problems is necessary. It is necessary to give a leap, by means of significant policies, to aim at the young man's distraction and happiness. What emancipation data do we expect with a youth unemployment rate which, although it has been reduced, remains twice the European average? The youth unemployment rate remains twice the European average. How will youth be emancipated with an average wage that barely reaches a thousand euros and a temporality and partiality in contracts that seem to come in series? How will youth emancipate with prohibitive rental housing prices? As we are seeing lately, despite the motto, despite the statistics of rental markets, which seems not to fit too well to the reality of rental prices. Sources of the Basque Youth Observatory, based on data from the Eustat. This line here, counselor, which I see is quite attentive to the issue, is the percentage of salary that an 18-34-year-old employee should devote to paying his or her rental home alone. In 2017 – the latest data collected – it should allocate 70% of its salary in order to be able to afford a single rental home. And this is happening as the percentage of young people emancipated on rent continues to grow and continues to rise, with 2006 at 19%, and 2017 at 55.3. Almost three times as many young people in the last decade have opted for rented housing. Is Lehen Aukera a solution? No, no, A programme which in its basic scale establishes as a requirement for companies that such contracts may be in line with the payment of the Spanish SMI of EUR 900, no. We cannot continue to encourage precarious contracts through aid and programmes from public institutions, we cannot do so! Let us open our eyes at once and put in place measures to ensure that at least our young people who have access to that first job start with a minimum of EUR 1,200. Is Gaztelagun a solution to the problem of lack of emancipation in rental housing? We don't think it is. It has been found, in fact, that Gaztelagun has now become a problem for this Executive, as the star programme to encourage the rental of free housing among young people has been an unprecedented failure. 22,5 million budgeted for the 2019 financial year. A little over 300,000 have been executed and there is an execution forecast of just half a million euros by the end of the year with the applications approved to date. That is, 22.5 million budgets, and half a million or so, will be implemented – something more likely – by the end of the year. And we do not say that they should be eliminated, but, of course, reformulated, as reflected in the compromise amendment, and that these are also complementary programmes of a comprehensive emancipation plan. Because, if we continue as we have so far, our young people will continue to be at the tail of Europe at the age of emancipation and, in addition to not being able to afford it, our young people and we do not deserve it. And that's why we're saying today's an inflammation point, because last week, you know, this ZUKKE, you know, you're gonna have to hang me in there, and you're gonna kill me. Today, on the other hand, after the agreement I'd made, we could say progressed by adcidation. And I'm going a step away. This decision today, no doubt, should be reflected in the budget for 2020 events, in the quantum level, but above all in the quantum level. The only thing we know for the moment is that young men are identified in the rights as forms of priority, but then we'll have to see what this becomes, because it's not only about money. Like I said, a barbarity that doesn't run in the First Option & Youth Buddy programs Is it ready, for instance, to make bold decisions about the new examples of the working-making of young men? We'll see. We've already registered a fairly integrated proposal about it, and we'll bring it here to discussion. A proposition. uberilized economy delivery Because especially young people work cricket. These commitments have been received in the middle and if we have signed it and have come to an agreement, it is because we believe that, apart from content and progress, they are to be put into a certain number of commitments that have been received. It is there, as has been said, to give a leap into public politics, and, beyond the taking of measures, beyond the taking of this political engagement, we receive more precise things, as the reduction of the pay of the women below 30 years of age into strategy and the action as a definite purpose. Also in both main columns, employment, and apartment, various measures are collected, and although at the present day, not inserted between the principal objects of the 2017-2020 Elapsa Plant, the employment of the young must be stable and of quality. From now on, that's just what you're asking to do between the funniest things. It is stated and received in detail, even in agreement, the development of the housing by the law. The man who goes off on his way, and with it also to furnish himself with more resources, in order to develop this Housing Law in a proper manner. Adapting our young friend's program, as we said before. And we shall see a little what quality this program takes, for as much as it takes from 23 to 18 to 23 and from the economic frontier to the bottom and from the bottom to the bottom, if this is the proposition of this government, we may say from this day that it will give no answer to the domestic problem of the young men. Then, as in the last place, it is to be put into value in the house, where the specific needs of the young are to be considered by the new housing typeology or combination of life, the communal lives of the non-commissionary life, the housing agency, etc., and so on. It's probably bad for me to say that we're representing EH Collectors, but we have EAE models like that in Azpeitian and Usurbile and Orer. And whether chance or not, in those townships, EH is gathering in the Mayor's office. We've had to leave other measures outside the agreement, Mrs. President. This has been all part of the conspiracy against the youth's law. We've left that, but we'll have a chance later to put it in and get those measurements. Also that of removing that boundary in our young friend's program of 250 euros-that is to say, the complementary de vivienda. And we've also had to take the fourth point of our initial proposal. We thought it necessary to control the deficiencies of the size with necessary continuity and efficiency, and, moreover, to represent the steps that had been made, the U.S.K. was asked to create, govern, co-ordination, expand, and evaluate the organization structure in the prevalence of the President. We left this out. Since this, when we are in the government, will be a measure that will be implemented in future years, we will cease to do so. And whilst new measures are more bold, and new politics are designed and implemented, we live in the time of the youth's preparation, because this generation has grown up, bred, and lived in the prevarication.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u2	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u3	Yeah. It's not a coincidence that the title of the activities organized by the influences of Bilbon on this Saturday is No es lo que hay Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u4	Thank you. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Gauza batzuekin edo askorekin bat cataz Estarrona jaunak egin duen diagnostikoan. Argi eta garbi dago, ez hemen Bakarrik, Euskadin, baizik eta statuan eta Europako leku batzuetan, emantzipatzeko ageea, gure ageea, gure gasteen ageea askoz ere handiagoa da beste leku batzuetan bath. Horrek kezka exitzen digu. We have that concern. We understand that the age of emancipation in Euskadi, compared to other countries in Europe, is infinitely higher, with which it is clear that we will all have to reflect and, beyond that, put ourselves to work in order to try not to do so and give the young people of this country a chance. Mr. Estarrona said so. There are two basic pillars or two fundamental causes that hinder such emancipation. On the one hand, it is the shortage of stable employment and quality for our young people. The statistics are there, the data are objective and therefore nothing to object to. And, on the other hand, we have the difficulties that our young people have in accessing housing, among other causes, either because of this lack of stable and quality employment, salaries that do not allow them to access housing that, unfortunately, both in the purchase option and in the rental, have prices that are very high, and especially in some provinces. Clearly, we have to bet on our youth. Youth is the future of this country. Without young people in this country we have a somewhat uncertain future, given, among other things, that the population pyramid that we have in Euskadi is not exactly the best future for us. Therefore, as I said, we need a commitment, but not just a commitment from this Government, but a much broader social commitment, which addresses or covers all the social spheres of this country. What are our young people's jobs like? I have said that they are jobs in which the average age for completing training is very high. Many times the percentage of stable and quality employment among these young people, who have training, I understand that it is acceptable, that it is optimal to gain access to a job, is very small and, unfortunately, most of them are subject to working conditions which, mainly, give them little stability. And this causes young Basques to have little incentive to go into search of a house, a place where they can emancipate. What are housing like? I've said it before. Housing in Euskadi, for issues that may require reflection, has a high price. There are differences, logically, between territories, but, generally, both in the rental and the purchase regime, they are housings that have a high price. The aim must therefore be, on the one hand, to reduce the wage gap – Mr Estarrona has also commented; it is reflected in our compromise amendment – to break that wage gap and, in particular, to place emphasis on young women in this country because they are the ones who are mainly suffering it. And, on the other hand, logically, implement new housing policies that facilitate such access. I would like to focus on this. Logically, the goal should be to reduce that price. It is often not easy for government policies to have a direct impact on the reduction of that price. Moreover, the implementation of some policies by the Department of Housing may have the opposite effect. That is to say, as the amounts of aid are raised so that these young people can be emancipated, the market can also choose to raise the rental price. Therefore, these policies may need to be redirected, they may need to be adjusted, in order to have a policy of their own, a housing park adapted to those needs of young people. For that, logically, the volume of the public housing park must be increased. On the other hand, it is not easy either, especially since the number of promotions proposed by the Housing Department is what it is. And that, on the other hand, those policies that are intended to capture uninhabited dwellings are perhaps not in the conditions that this Government can afford to capture the greatest number or the whole number of dwellings needed or desirable to implement these programmes. Therefore, perhaps the reflection will also have to come through the search for new models of coexistence among young people, new models that allow these young people to be emancipated, let us say, that apart from what has traditionally been the concept of emancipation, not only in this country, but in most of the countries of the European Union. Of course, there is an outstanding task, which is the development of the outstanding issues of the Housing Act, issues that are also being worked on, but which exist or have a component of legal difficulties that I hope this Government will be able to save as soon as possible, because certainly in development, in that Housing Act, there is also a good tool for implementing policies that favour the emancipation of our young people and our young people. Mr Estarrona has also said this, and we, through this compromise amendment, in some way support the Government in so far as it is the Government itself who detects that the Gaztelagun programme has not had the desired effect or the effect envisaged at the outset, in its start-up. So we have to change it, we have to adapt it, we have to make it attractive. Or more than making it attractive, you have to make it possible. Therefore, the Government, as discussed last week in a debate in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy, is already working to modify this programme and make it more attractive and that the parameters, the conditions governing this programme are the most appropriate to try to capture as many young people as possible. I therefore believe that we have good limbs to redirect the public policies of this government. I have no doubt that both departments – the two departments that are involved, let us say, in this compromise amendment – are not going to get to work now, but they have been trying for a long time to identify these shortcomings, trying to adapt the programmes that they already have in place to make them as efficient as possible and, logically, as I said at the beginning, it will not only take this government to help, but, beyond all that, it will take a social commitment from all the actors involved and from those who, although not involved, can also contribute to offering a better future to our young people. But, without a doubt, I feel that the issue is not going to be easy at all. Unfortunately, I don't think any of us here have that magic formula that allows our young people to have better opportunities or immediate opportunities to reverse this situation, this diagnosis that, logically, I understand, we all share. I therefore appeal to that collaboration, not only of the groups represented in this House, but of all Basque society, to bet on our young people, because, depending on their future, we will also have a future ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u6	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Madam, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, good morning to all. I think we've got enough of this today. We have discussed several times with the questions or difficulties we have for producing young men, and it is certain that in this process of producing a proper formation, that we need still help in the process to obtain a decent employment, and to acquire a dwelling. And I think that to this extent at least all the members of the legislature agree that this is a fact, and that it is necessary that the politics of the community should be directed against it. Often, the data, the diagnosis, we bring reports. There are many reports, evaluations, and investigations which have been made about the state of young men in the past years, and I believe that there is also some uneasiness from the government, and even from other agents, in order to know what reality and the most efficient manner of attaining to this reality. And there are some facts which, fortunately, are gradually improved, such as may be the rate of unemployment, or whatever may be, the average wages increase, although they do not reach those still desired data. And then there are so many others that show us a pretty bad, ugly picture, if we look at the provisionalness, or look at the indications of the quality of the job. And today, I'd like to bring here five main goals of which Mr. Estarra spoke of the interaction of the president. The first goal, in order to make a leap from the form to the working world as quickly as possible, was the goal of fun, and I think it wasn't the object the President brought that day, but we all know that it was one of the goals in his government program from the beginning, marked as a popular goal, the rate of unemployment. With dropping below 10%, 20,000 young people can provide their first experience of work. And I think, and he mentioned that Mr. Estarrona has a nice first-class name, but then it's no good... I think many young first-round programs are giving him a chance to have this first experience of work and also that this program is improving for years. We can see, from 2018 to 2019, that the minimum pay to the companies is made to increase that minimum pay. Later on, if you have a date and a date, it will be different from that of the company, but it will also be different if the contract is less than a year old, if it is over and unlimited. We can see, for instance, that if you hired a student who had a degree in 2018, or had a degree of license, you hired him down to 12 months, there was a fourth500 euro help, and if it was unlimited, double. And in 2019, these quantities have gone up from 4.900 to almost 10,000 in the case of unlimited. I think they're taking steps and making improvements with that first goal. The second purpose was to have a quality employment, to have a quality employment. To do this, conditions of organisation, such as formization and orientation support are started by the programs being started. In this respect the President mentioned that many indicators show that if a proper formation is attained and a proper formation is produced, then that it is also possible to work in a better quality. And he also mentioned the integral development that he's training in the imperfect. I think that's important, too. He spoke of improvements in the conditions of work as the third purpose, of the preventive campaigns which tend to diminish the manufactures, and to prevent them from working. The fourth goal is to promote action by encouraging scholarships. And the last, and I believe it is important also, that those young men who are in the danger of neglect may, in some way, be so individualized as to be able to be in contact with them, to give them all that orientation and assistance, and to have a decent form for their work, or to have a work to do. That would be about the job. And we know that the other big column is in the production. It's the housing. That's where we had the discussion last week and the Castile program came out. It's a program that criticizes the occasion, but I'd say we all agree in the purpose of this program. After all, in order to get a house, we make a large choice of rents for the young, and for that, the government does it. And I think if these conditions were not at first adequate, we should have no shame for changing them. And what I'm saying with all this is that we finally have a lot of data on the table, that we know what the situation is and we have to deal with it, but that the situation is neither black nor white, there are many situations in which young people are very different. And the chief physician of the Artolalots said in an interpelation made by Mrs. Guanche last week: "On the colour palette, not only white and black do they appear, but we have many different colours, and we have to know how to deal with them, and we have to set up actions and programs to meet them." And he's doing it for fun. I will not repeat them one by one, because we have discussed them several times, and have repeated what are the programmes that are in motion, but there are many. I think that, on the other hand, the commitment to the ending of the "Mojok" is to be underlined, not just the commitment to the programs and actions it does to young people, even in this legislature, with the work we're doing, socializing and us, we're trying to get the commitment to when we come here and agree with the other teams, and the agreements between different ones, so that we can improve the situation of the young people in this case. And I think that we should mention that, too, because at last we think we ought to agree among the different things that we can get on with the younger ones. And we're glad to meet with the will that Mr. Estarra has had and the effort he's had, because last week the lawmen, the opposition teams, had been suspended by the Young Friend's program, but I think it's not that he's taking us anywhere, leading us to the fight, and that really nothing's been given to the young people. It was at last a suspense, a work that doesn't work well, but what was there for the young people? There was no action. I think that in the end we must come to society with these agreements, and be able to help those who really need them. And in this case, I think we have succeeded in assisting the young with some kind of medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. It's the teams that don't run, the Basque Popular Group. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. There seems to be unanimity among all groups on the first item on this morning's agenda, and it is something that, far from bringing us to joy, must lead us to concern. Mr Lehendakari, if it turns out that all groups agree that the diagnosis of the situation of young people is negative, it is bad at this stage of the legislature, it cannot be otherwise, but because the policies that have been directed from your Government towards this group of Basque citizens have not been the right ones, have not been properly implemented or the design of these needs of young people was not well done. We find, Mrs Artolazabal, that since you took possession of the Employment and Youth portfolio, today, the population of unemployed young Basques has been reduced exclusively to about 2,000-2,500 young people. That is not even 10% of the total number of young people there when you came to the government and when you took over that design of youth policies. In that presentation, you were talking about large numbers, about thousands of young people who were going to have the first job opportunity, about thousands of jobs that were going to be created from the public administration, and none of those goals, from my point of view, has been achieved correctly. And that is, from my humble analysis, the great problem for which young people cannot emancipate. The problem with which young people cannot emancipate is not that the Gaztelagun programme does not work, which also, but simply that they have no economic means. And that's the reality we live in. Not only are our young people, as has been said here, much older when it comes to emancipation if we compare them with the rest of European countries or the rest of the autonomous communities. The comparison with the rest of the European countries is somewhat equivocal because historically it has always been so. Today, 30 years ago, 40 years ago and 50 years ago, in certain parts of Europe, the young people are swanning Of the thousands of jobs that were to be created in the public administration, of the thousands of jobs that were to be created in the private enterprise, only about 2,500 have been achieved – I understand that they are moving in people and that they are more affected than the net number – about 2,500, Mrs Artolazabal. And it turns out that youth unemployment doubles to the average of general unemployment. And that's a very worrying situation. And that is something the opposition groups agree on. I suppose the spokesman for Elkarrekin Podemos, who is going to come up to the rostrum after I finish my speech, shares that diagnosis, and the proposer has shared it, and they share it, which is really important, the two groups that support the Government. I say it's really important because 10 days ago they didn't share it on the committee when we were talking about the Gaztelagun program. And the councilman, who is not here today to hear about this topic, perhaps because he has more important things to do, dropped a suspense. She dropped a suspense, and that's important. The spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party tells us that this is useless, that for young people it is useless. Well, look at you, yeah. That suspense has taken a radical turn in the position you had 10 days ago when you said that it wasn't important, that it wasn't true, that you weren't doing things so wrong, that the criticisms were exaggerated... It turns out that the reality is that today they are going to sign an amendment with the opposition groups, which the People's Group is going to support, logically, for that diagnosis to be changed. I would have liked it more than Mr Arriola, the head of the Housing Department, would have come up here to give us the explanations or run to ask for his appearance on the committee to give an explanation of what is going on. This item of the EUR 22.5 million to which the proponent of this initiative referred –which is a total of 54 million – which ends the year and does not come to an execution of a million euros supposes either that the diagnosis was wrong and that amount was not necessary – which may be one of the reasons, because the counselor has not given us any and his spokespersons have not explained it to us either – that the call was clearly misdirected and badly done, and the requirements are not those that young people must meet or do not meet the needs of young people who want to emancipate themselves and benefit from that program, or that perhaps there are many other programs from other institutions that want to cover that same goal and perhaps we should unify the policies of all Basque institutions. I still remember that "A competition, an administration", and in these matters all the administrations are stuck for taking out their own aid programmes and that, in the end, leads us to a stupendous failure. Not even a million of the 22,5 planned. It's a failure for everyone! It is a failure for all Basques; it is a failure, especially for young Basques; it is a failure, especially for the Housing Department. The only success of this programme is that of Mr Azpiazu, who will allow him to save EUR 21 million in the accounts for this year, which we will see finished, possibly, at the end of next year. But we can't live off that kind of success, what we need is for young people to be able to emancipate themselves. I insist, I don't think this is the best or most effective tool. The best would be that Mrs Artolazabal has under her department, under her domains, that is to create employment for young people, that young people do not leave, that young people can emancipate themselves and start an individual life project in the Basque Country, that they do not have to leave, and in economic conditions that allow them to emancipate family homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u10	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u11	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, we'd like to make a contribution, but first of all we have to say that we've been able to review the corrections and so we haven't been part of that agreement. And secondly, I must say that I shall make my speech short, for I have a pretty fever upon me, and ten minutes here I see neither necessity nor possible. And then he's diagnosed. I think we all share the diagnosis, and we've got a long time to put that diagnosis on the table, and at least I see a beautiful point where we all share this diagnosis, and it seems to me very important. We have a problem, then, when we ask how we young men turn this state. And I think that the question appears just at the time to answer that question. When we have once localised the problems of the young people, the differences usually arise in order to speak of public policies which are to be faced with such problems, do they not? But today the Basque Country has come to an agreement between the parties that collect and support the government, and the agreement, when we saw the middle-class part you've come, was the question whether or not the measures that have been set there were best for us or not? Probably they're not the best for us, probably not for you, and probably we could put them up differently, but the question follows: Is that a step forward? And I think, yes, it's a step forward and we need steps forward, not backward. So we vote for this media. We wish, indeed, to make it clear that, in our opinion, with other proposals than our own, it is not in the least easy to improve the state of young men. A wound, a lighter I think, then, that we must turn this way, that we must all be brave, and that the young view must be established in all laws and public politics. And furthermore, the Law of the Younger of Euskal Autonomia of Er member is deemed indispensable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u12	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Passing on the answers, Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u13	Yes, thank you very much again, Mr. President. Just in order to do a few points. I don't want to stay too long on this. But it is true that when certain statements are made in the Chamber, states of opinion are being generated and some ideas are being reaffirmed, and I wanted to tell Mr Andueza that the population pyramid is not necessarily negative. It's the first time we've really faced the possibility of enjoying whole lives and living together several generations. The point is that this forces us to think and answer very concrete questions that allow the development of projects of life and happiness. And, to give a very basic example, we do not have to encourage young people to have children per se. It's true, Mrs. Guarga, there's been steps on the quantum level. No one denies that. But it is true, if you look to Europe, it is a double rate of unemployment in this country. Then we still have time to improve a great deal by public policies. Mr Bollain said it certainly would not be done, but you have admitted that it is a step forward. I believe – and all I am going to do, to finish my speech, is to highlight some of the issues that are reflected in the initiative that has been adopted today – that by saying that "Parliament considers it essential to make a leap", we are talking about "a leap in public policies for emancipation", and it seems to me that this, simply as a political intentionality, has power and has sufficient value. We have said that the Strategic Employment Plan, which is currently under way, will also establish a concrete course of action based on this agreement, within its main objectives. We have said that the strategy and operational plan of action to reduce the wage gap in Euskadi will also open a specific line, since so far it is not collected, for women under the age of 30, to put in place measures to address this wage gap. And then, with regard to housing policies, in addition to the aforementioned and failed Gaztelagun programme, which really requires a thorough reformulation, it is true that we are collecting another series of measures which have to do with allocating more resources also to the Department of Housing, since in recent decades the budget for housing in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has been reduced by 30%. We therefore believe that we must turn this situation around. We say that "the housing policy is significant and lasting", taking advantage of everything "which the Housing Act offers", which still remains to develop some very important points of it, as well as the "urgent expansion of the public rental housing park" and a greater "purchase – by the Government – of limited rental housing", to manage them through Alokabide. And we even say that an "adequate system of barring" should be applied to ensure that objective. Finally, I would also like to highlight again the new types of housing, which I believe, in view of the new paradigm changes that we are living in today's society, it is true that these are issues that we must start to value, work and implement, either through pilot projects or through projects that are in progress as I have already commented on. Because, by giving the real quantum leap, we're going to reverse the situation with other programs and partial programs, we're not going to upset the situation. With a firm wager we will overturn the situation, and we will begin to answer this popular challenge which we have before us with bold commitments. And, as I said before, we believe that when the budget rules have been introduced, this agreement is perfectly consistent today. As formerly mentioned here by the several governments, they did not defend themselves against the majority of this Parliament, a new plan of assault to obtain a proper employment. The political will was then wanting to accept and develop the measures which this plan took. Today, some of them have been agreed on a direction, at least. Even in the housing camp, the resolutions they make are in the right direction. Now some of these are to be determined. But the first step is a change of direction and a leap, no doubt. And we put it in value because that's the way to answer the problems that our young people have. The time has come, beyond words and intentions, to place precise measures on the table, to settle and set up, because of the time of new impulses, even from the institutional cares.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u14	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Briefly. Mr. Estarrona, don't take my radish by the branches. I have made a reference to the population pyramid and, of course, to the pyramid that we have at present clear that it offers opportunities and clear that it also has advantages. But we also have to recognise that it presents a number of difficulties that we have to face. It's neither the whole nor the nothing. Of course he has positive things. I was influencing the negatives, because in relation to what we were discussing today, I understood that it was relevant to mention it. And yes, of course, I agree with you, today it is clear that there is a qualitative leap in the implementation of policies that favour the emancipation of our young people. I believe that the compromise that we have signed, both the two groups that we support the Government and the EH Bildu group, I believe that it should be valued, of course it does. I believe that, in this sense, we have tried to seek that agreement from the outset. We have achieved this and I think it is something that needs to be valued. And because, moreover, I believe that this transactional has proposals that have substance and that have value, and that they will probably allow us both from the government and from this Parliament to promote, improve and adapt the policies that are already under way. And I think that represents or demonstrates a positive and proactive attitude on the part of the three groups, and also on the part of Elkarrekin Podemos, who had made his proposals. For technical reasons we have not been able to discuss them or incorporate them into this transactional, but I believe that they show a positive attitude, a proactive attitude towards improvement. Of others, I probably cannot say the same, and the word "failure" has been mentioned. Well, "failure," probably, would have been not having put those programs in place. That would have been a failure. And it must also be emphasized that this Government has set them up, designed them, with greater or lesser success, with greater or lesser success, but has put them in place, approved them and they are already in motion. Well, there's time to adapt, there's time to adapt to reality. Here we were talking about a "misdiagnosis", a "misdirected summons". It is a programme that was launched on 1 January this year. Let us also give time; let us see how it adapts to the new realities; let us see whether the new measures, the adequacy of those programmes, allow them to be more successful. I believe that the Government's commitment is no longer a ballad issue; there are a significant number of millions of euros within that budget which are already a declaration of intent and a commitment by the young people of this country. Well, let's put it in value. That, logically, it needs to be improved? I'm not gonna question it. That, probably, as we adapt them improve and increase the number of young people joining these programmes? Probably too. But here I think we are to contribute, and we are to contribute all, and criticism is not worth the criticism. I would be delighted to come to this Parliament, to this House, to discuss the proposals of the People's Party on young people. I'd be delighted. I haven't had a chance yet. Let us see if next time we have a little bit more luck and, in addition to criticism, we have a proposal for improving all the programmes that are already under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u16	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Madam, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll be brief too. I think we have all already mentioned our positions. I think we have to insist that the government acts at last in a constant improvement and evaluation, and that we have to do something for it. I think it's based on this evaluation and innovation, and we have to put it on the table too. We have tried from our party to leave the way of the agreement as wide as possible with the correction of the whole proposed, and I think we have finally succeeded in holding the margin to the agreement, and I think that is, I think, the way. However, though the steps you've arranged and made were important, I think, considering all the initiatives that've been brought to this legislation for the past few years, it's a critic of fun, but we don't ask for a change of direction either. I think it's asking him to do more than that, to put more measures in motion, but I think that shows that he's right in the way he's made it, or in the way he's marked. Then we can change a lot of exigence. And I understand that on the part of the People's Party we will now have unanimity, thanks to the fact that the People's Party is going to vote in favour of the first point, which is the one that says that the situation is bad, and Mr Arbulo has spent seven minutes talking about how bad we are doing, about the bad situation we have, but, as Mr Andueza has said, we have not heard a single proposal that can make the situation of young people better. We do not know what alternative the People's Party proposes in this respect, rather than knowing that the government makes it fatal, in your way of view. There is no proposal. And last week's suspension was meant to be given, I'm sure the young people haven't done us any favors. I think that does not lead us to any port and does not give us any action to improve our situation, so I do not see what improvement has been achieved. From the groups that supported the Government we believed that these conditions should also be changed, and we believed that to improve these aids and to reach younger people we needed to change them, so we all agreed. Now, he was wanted to give a suspense and so you did, but I don't think that did youth any favors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. Basque Popular. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u19	Thank you, Madam President. The fact that a specific policy of the Department of Housing, namely Gaztelagun, is regarded as suspense, is not or does not seek to do any favour to youth; it attempts to undermine the work of the Government when it has been wrong. Perhaps that seems to you to be useless work, but that is the work of the opposition, to control the action of the Government. Ah, isn't controlling the government's action the work of the opposition? Man, I'm already surprised. I am almost as surprised as Mr Andueza, who says that putting many millions into a game is a declaration of intent. Lehendakari, beware of the new budget items you are making, because they also put many millions in one item to make a declaration of intent statements of intent And you are right, Mr Andueza, I think I was wrong in calling the government's work in this respect, in particular Mr Arriola's, "failure". I was wrong because I failed to put an adjective or several; I could say "rotundo failure", "strepidoso failure", "shaming" or "bochoronoso failure". You continue to insist that you put millions and millions of euros to cover a need for young Basques in a game, tell us that it is a declaration of intentions And in this case, of course, neither of the two departments is right, neither the Employment nor the Housing Department are right with the program that young people have to be able to emancipate themselves. And the data is objective and it's on the table, I didn't make it up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we're gonna vote for EH, the Eukal Socialists and the Eucabertians, the middle-class correction that the teams have signed. Do you want to vote on points? No, okay. So we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting, the votes given 72, 73; the supporters, 73; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u21	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Mation, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Basque Society, Carmelus Barrius Barroja, a member of the Populallian Society, had been introduced to the work of an eucalypical treaty. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u22	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Lehendakari, councillor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I will be brief, since there is an agreement on the table, an agreement that we have signed by all the parliamentary groups on support, the encouragement of the social economy in Euskadi. And I must thank both Mr Becerra and Mrs Pinedo, Mrs Sánchez and Mr Urrutia for their sensitivity in accepting this need that we have identified in this legislature. In the last two years we have experienced relevant things around the social economy, we are doing it right now in the process...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u23	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u24	Thank you, President. ... at the final stage of the adoption of the Basque Cooperatives Act. It is a good time to do, to also take advantage of these synergies that legislative activity deals with in relation to one of the elements of the social economy as relevant in our country as cooperatives are, and to take advantage of the fact that all this can be part of a strategic action by the Basque Government, and by the whole of society, and by the sector in relation to making a boost to the whole sector of the social economy of the Basque Country. Indeed, they are needs. And he said there were relevant things in the last two years. There was an important debate in the Committee on Labour and Justice on a Government communication on the social economy. Commission in June 2018, where an important series of motions for resolutions were presented and adopted, declaring, as general concepts, the social economy as a model rooted in our people, in our culture, and which is also a meaningful and efficient expression of different values, positive practices of job generation, industrial and economic generation, which are fully in force, which have borne the crisis well, and which are adequately reflected in that concept of our own common work, of that And there were also important resolutions on urging the Government to include lines of work in entrepreneurship development plans...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u26	... tools and economic endowment for the promotion of entrepreneurship based on values of a collective and social nature, such as self-management, democracy, networking, cooperation and social innovation. Well, that framework for discussion that we had in the Working Committee, that case-by-case debate, the adoption of those motions for resolutions, were a good starting point for other issues that the Government could continue to make. And we say that there have also been important elements over the past two years. We need to remember how in Bilbao, in 2018, the Global Social Economy Forum met, that is, an entity that brings together social economy experiences from all over the world. And, of course, there was a clear commitment to what is the final resolution of the Global Forum, which we celebrate here in relation to the social economy, also to the social and solidarity economy, to those values in relation to those principles that have to do with a way of doing work, of generating employment, of generating economic growth and that are viable, that are efficient, that create social value, economic benefits and that their competitiveness lies in the social impact generated by their activity and by the people who make up that activity. We understand that there have been important moments: the adoption of this law that we are carrying out in the Basque Parliament on a form of social economy such as cooperatives; that global forum; that debate in the committee on social economy. I have to admit that I called the councilwoman almost a year ago on this issue. Indeed, the motion comes quite a long time later, but I believe that it is a good time for this final stage of the adoption of the Cooperatives Act to involve it with an issue that we demand from the Government or that we ask the Government from this Parliament and that is that strategic plan, that social economy strategy, which will be measured in many ways, as job creation, as the possibility of creating quality jobs, as business creation formulas, as a stimulus to the social economy. We have to recognize that social economy companies are of many kinds. There are cooperatives, as the sign of their identity in our land, but the value of labour societies is very important; the value of insertion companies, of special employment centres is very important; the value of associations and foundations that have economic activity, that move in this world of the social economy, the third sector to which they are also linked... I mean, we understand there's a lot of manoeuvring. For what? For that, to generate employment, to generate quality employment and also to generate economic growth. The agreement we have reached is clear. It also has about two parts. One in relation to the strategic plan and the other in relation to the review of what the resolutions of the debate of 4 June 2018 have been. And the initiative that we have signed by all the parliamentary groups speaks of "the Basque Parliament urging the Basque Government, following the adoption of this initiative, to start work on a strategic plan of economy of an interdepartmental nature". It'll be a good contribution. Indeed, as a strategic social economy plan, it is not only part of a department, but it involves all the departments of the Basque Government. It is clear that the Department of Labour or the Department of Employment, the Department of Competitiveness, the Department of Finance, many other departments, because, as we see, the social economy is dispersed in many areas. We are also seeing this in the Cooperatives Act itself, because we talk about transportation, we talk about housing, we talk about associated work, we talk about many issues that of course can be analyzed. That in cooperatives, but in the whole social economy, with a strategic character. And that is why this interdepartmental character is implementing the economic resources necessary for its development. That's important, indeed. We recognize the work of the Basque Government in promoting the social economy in plans, in specific aid programmes. I believe that we can make a globalizing effort and, in addition to these specific actions, go further, with a strategic plan of social economy in that sense, encompassing what is already being done and providing, of course, a new dimension to the issue. The second point: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to draw up the above-mentioned strategy (for the social economy) with the direct and active participation of all actors in the social economy, so as to respond to the demands and needs of this sector of the social economy". We all know how active, how committed the associations, federations, confederations that include co-operatives, labour societies, special employment centres are with their principles, we all have in mind Confecop, ASLE, REAS, important associations that need to be taken into account and with which we need to agree, and with which we need to work this Basque strategy of social economy. It is a dynamic, active, modern sector with ideas. That is, in that sense, it is a positive added factor and a facilitator of what that strategy has to be. And finally, we urge and ask the Basque Government and the Department of Labour and Justice of the Basque Government – something of this already advanced us in the response to the inquiry, the adviser – "within three months to prepare and send to the Basque Parliament a report on the degree of compliance and the measures taken to that end of the resolutions adopted on 4 June 2018 in the framework of the parliamentary debate on the Communication on the social economy". It is clear that there were many motions for resolutions, some coincident, some somewhat repetitive... It is a good time to have a report on the status of these resolutions and their implementation, to the extent that they have been able to implement actions or identify issues of improvement. Indeed, it was an important debate, it was a legislature where we have worked on the social economy, and we want to continue to do so with this strategy that we ask the government to draw up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning. Today, Mr. Barrio has brought us here to discuss a motive. We assume that discussion is necessary, about the social economy. We can all think that we're on the side of the social economy, we all want to encourage social economy, or so we say, and we all want to see the development of the social economy. The government goes this way, and it provides subsidies to encourage projects, it encourages programmes to push initiatives forward, and it is contacted with the sector to encourage its development. But all that, in our opinion, is not enough. It's not enough, and we've got to think about the argument, whether it's political or economic, we have to think about why we want the social economy, and how the social economy should grow. And for all this, we need a strategy to determine the goals, the measures, the exact measures, and the results for measuring and evaluating. The debate today, on the subject of Mr Barrio's motion, is not so much whether we want social economy, that there is a general agreement in that, but what is the role of the social economy, for what we want the social economy, if I am allowed to express it. Because not all the agents who say they are about the social economy are behaving in reality as a social economy, and because the social economy, ultimately, is a transformative economy, an economy that seeks to change the paradigm of capitalist society. Where? Where? The economy is at the centre and where the important thing is growth and financial profitability, while in the social economy the center does not occupy the economy but occupies the economic development. And when we say that in the social economy another way of doing business is possible, that's where we see when we're supporting the social economy and when we don't. If we defend a more humanistic or more social model of enterprise, it is true that we have to take account of employment, but in the social economy employment will go hand in hand with equal opportunities for women and men, with the inclusion of people at risk of exclusion or with physical or psychological diversity, or with the hand of reconciling personal and family life. When in the social economy we are talking about setting up a business project, we will also put at the same time local development, where that project will be inserted and the root of that project in society – now that it is so fashionable to talk about the rooting of companies or the rooting of capitalist companies –. And when we talk about efficient business management in the social economy, we will also have to talk about the human development of its members, about participation in results or more democratic and participatory management. And that is why, because in the social economy it is not always being so, that is why we need a strategy, that is why we need to assess what has been done so far, and that is why we need to target the scarce resources available to the Basque Government. These results, in which we have a great disparity between the different actors, be they large or small cooperatives, public-sector companies, foundations, non-profit associations or collaborative networks. We need to assess in detail, not only the economic outcome of these enterprises in the social economy, but what their social outcome is, what their results are in terms of employment, but also in terms of integration, human development and, why not, the happiness of the people who make up these projects. Therefore, our group supports the compromise amendment that we have reached, where in reality what is called for is to have a strategy, to guide resources and to evaluate what has been done to date, so that what we are looking for is a model that will enable us to achieve a more just, more sustainable, more solidarity and more democratic society, which, after all, I believe is the objective that we all seek in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u29	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. EHGG rep. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Today we have a discussion regarding the proposal presented by Mr Barrio about the alliance of the social economy. This proposition, as Mr. Barrio has said, was the result of an interpelation, and it is important, as we believe, to remember the context he was in when the interpelation was made. We're talking about November 2018, it's been almost a year since the motion came up. It was just a congress around the social economy of Bilbo, and what's the most remarkable thing for us, we discussed on the board about the Communications of Social Economics, we accepted 48 resolutions, and it was only five months ago. Governments in this communication In 2017-20, he introduced his plan of activity around the social economy, and we, meeting EH, became very critical. We hoped to penetrate the deeper, clearer document, and the clear commitment to all the realities that form the social economy. We were hoping that the document which marked the bright and strong strategy in the development of social economy. And that's what we told the chief physician. We also said that certain social economic operators didn't see that document very well. So from the EH Collector to the 21st section, because there were many holes and privations in this document, to include social economy as a whole and with all its peculiarities in the government's activity. In that June 2018 debate, we clearly show our support for the social economy – as has been said today – but to the social economy in all its forms. And we also express our regret at the lack of ambition of this Government and the lack of a clear and defined strategy on the part of the Government with regard to the social economy and the values it represents. We call on the Government in that debate to set the course, to set the strategy to be followed by the different actors, because what we saw, and we continue to see, is a cluster of plans dependent on different areas of the Government, and even on different actors, institutions and agencies too, without a common direction defined in relation to the social economy. Because there is a need for coherence between the different policies to be followed in order to strengthen, as we have all done more than once, the social economy, in order, in the end, to make known what the social economy means in our country. Because if we consider the social economy to be a backbone of our country's future, this government must set a clear strategy, a strategy to follow. This strategy must contain actions to carry out different lines of work in the promotion of social entrepreneurship, the development of new projects, knowledge of the different figures of the social economy, inter-cooperation, so many and so many things that we said in that debate, because the social economy is alive and because the social economy is part of the day-to-day life of our society. When Mr Barrio tabled the motion we are debating today in November last year, we had very recently the debate on the Communication on the Social Economy which we had had in June, as he said, in committee. Before this motion, our position was very clear: that the Government should comply with the resolutions adopted in that committee. We believed that he should take special care in those proposals that sought to promote the creation of quality and decent employment, the recognition of the social economy as a first-class social agent and the materialization of its representation in decision-making bodies. That was our request. And that's the attitude we've got here today, the attitude we've got today. You're gonna have to fill up the resolutions from the parliamentary discussion. We asked him for more, we know. We introduced the 21st resolution, and only a few were accepted. But at least let the government execute these decisions on the committee. Today those who have spoken before me, we can talk a long time about the social economy, the importance of our country, the role that has played in the development of our economy and the construction of society. Social economy is a lot more than what you think in general. And this is, especially, the course of the social so-called social economy for the last few years, for example, making strong steps in the path of another more fair society, opening new roads with feminism and kologism. We said, we've often talked about social economy, but we've also said it's time to get through words from the Basque People in the Union. We have insisted that the social economy plays the role in various sectors and that this role must be acknowledged in our country. It is necessary to confess to him that he does not place proper homages or plates, but to ensure his presence in the decisions, because that's the way to the Basque People. It's essential to get a few complexes out of the social economy and end up with paternalism. It really is essential that social economy is a primary agent. And that is the way we've been dealing with the Basque People from the Union, going past confession to produce them in practical matters. For instance, the presence of the co-operatives in the council of Profession. But some of them, sadly, don't want to open it. We can talk about action plans, as the Government did; we can talk about pacts, as Mr Barrio did in his original initiative; about strategic plans, as is done in the compromise that we have all signed; or about strategies, as we talked about from EH Bildu in the June committee debate. Each and every one of them can have good intentions and praiseworthy goals, but we would not advance, we would not advance anything if they did not respond to the social economy in its broadest sense. We would not make progress if social economic agents were not recognized as first-rate economic agents. In short, it would be one more document in the long list of documents on the social economy that have been made in our country if we are not clear that it is time for the agents of the social economy to be treated as what they are, I insist, prime agents. And that's what we're asking for here today. the clear, honest, and entire strategy of social economy, including the commitments to the social economy, made in conjunction with the agents who compose it, and fixed great ends. And that's why we signed this transactional. A transactional that I have to thank Mr Barrio, who has been relatively easy to work on. I am grateful that the contributions we have made from EH Bildu are part of the transactional, because we believe that it is very important, not only that we know the degree of compliance with those motions for resolutions, but what measures have been taken to implement those motions for resolutions. You've been given three months; we've been advocating for two months, counselor. Someone has been more benevolent and has given him one more month. Enjoy them, because I believe that we all have an obligation to ensure that the social economy is truly recognized in our country, because it is an important economic agent in the day-to-day life of many workers in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u32	Thank you very much, President. Today we are discussing a motion tabled by the Group of the European People's Party on the work for a Basque pact in the social economy, following an inquiry which was already presented in plenary on 23 November last year. This motion was to be debated in plenary on 12 December, but it was withdrawn and we are going to debate it almost a year later. During this time, however, progress has been made in the work carried out by the Government on the social economy. The trajectory and work carried out in the Basque Autonomous Community in the social economy are among the most advanced in Spain and Europe; it is demonstrated by its strength and the tradition of institutional collaboration with the sector for many years, and we want it to remain so. And we have gone ahead of other autonomous communities because we have spent many years investing efforts and economic means to achieve it. We have the action plans of the Directorate of Social Economy 2017-2020, which were presented in this Parliament in the first half of 2018, and which have the participation and consensus of the most representative agents of the social economy, to which 58 contributions were added from all groups, after discussion in a monograph of social economy on 4 June last year in this Parliament. There is an action plan on corporate social responsibility 2017-2020 that, together with the parliamentary initiative on the Basque inclusive-participatory model in companies, completes the social economy actions in the Basque Country. And they've been doing things ever since. In turn, the objectives on business creation and jobs are contained in the Government's Strategic Grants Plan. As the Minister of Labour and Justice said in her speech at the plenary session on 23 November 2018, the Department of Labour, through the Directorate of Social Economy, has been and continues to promote the creation and consolidation of social economy enterprises, but they have access to all the support measures of the entire Government, that is, Basque social economy enterprises and entities have access to all the aid lines of the whole Government, not only of the Department of Labour, but also of Employment, Social Policy, Economic Development, etc. There are six projects led by the Department of Social Economy that aim at a comprehensive and comprehensive analysis of the Basque social economy –all of them will conclude in 2019 and will report on their results – such as the European social pillar project on social transformation, where the Social Economic Confederation participates; the environmental project for the development of the social economy and environmental transformation, where the University of Mondragon, Ondoan, Ihobe and Acclima are participating; projects, tools for economic, business, social, environmental transformation, and people and organizations are supporting the three universities and LKS and Equilia are participating; tangible and intangible projects and indicators, with the aim of highlighting and highlighting the most relevant aspects of the Basque social economy, where the three universities of the Basque Country also participate. The above-mentioned projects aim to create a shared account by all families of social economy for the enhancement of these, considering the social economy as an element of transformation of societies into four axes: economic-business transformation, social transformation, environmental transformation and transformation of people and organizations. This is the first time we have had a similar story in Euskadi and will be presented on 19 November at the Basque government headquarters in Vitoria. Finally, the Basque curriculum project on the analysis and creation of teaching materials for the formation of educational units of social economy on co-operativeism, labour societies, etc., where the Federation of Ikastolas of Euskadi is participating. A communication campaign for the dissemination of the social economy in Euskadi will be carried out during 2020. Another of the key projects for the next financial year is that of entrepreneurship in the social economy, which will be developed with the most important actors in the sector. It will also have regional structures, such as Ezkerraldea or Oarsoaldea, representing those with the highest unemployment, as well as technology centres and financial institutions. In this regard, papers are being prepared for a competitive examination for a consultant to support us in this plan. And we are now finalizing the presentation for the adoption of a new Cooperatives Act, which will probably be passed in this last quarter of this year in this Parliament. All this implies that a real Basque strategy of social economy is being consolidated, with a broad participation of all its actors, and all these actions are and have been aimed at preparing the ground for the presentation of the Strategic Plan of Social Economy, where all the Government's councils on this issue would participate. And, as progress has been made in recent years in this direction, we saw no inconvenience in signing the compromise amendment that we are going to adopt today with the support of all the parliamentary groups in this House. And I thank all the groups of the same for the effort we have made to reach a unanimous agreement on a matter as important and as relevant as the social economy. This transactional amendment reflects the need for the implementation of this strategic plan for the social economy of Euskadi, which will have an interdepartmental character, and also the need to implement the economic resources necessary for its development. And although this work, as I have already indicated in my speech, has already been initiated by the Labour Department of the Basque Government, we did see it as important that it should be taken up at this point. Then, in the second point, it refers to that it is further elaborated with the direct and active participation of all agents of the social economy. This point was also logical because, moreover, it has been done this way and should continue to be done this way. We also found it right to urge the Department of Labour and Justice of the Basque Government, within three months, to prepare a report on the degree of compliance with the various resolutions adopted in the monograph of 4 June last year. We believe in the need for further progress in the field of the social economy, and in that all the parliamentary groups in this House agree. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u33	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u34	Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. It's not our group that the original initiative used to say "noble" to a "uscal treaty" in this case, a "uscal pact" in favor of social appearance, or the "euscal strategy" mentioned in the medium. This must be the content of any compact or strategy, and, as we conceive to be protected by such agreements or tactics as are required from different groups, it appears to us that we must not begin from mistake in this legislation, in regard to the social economy, that we are doing good work, and that by this means we must continue to establish and develop the example of social astronomy. On this model, on the one hand, the agreement with the sector, and on the other, the constant increase and application of the lines of assistance for the creation of corporations, and the division of social phenomena, and the other for expansion. And restricted to this thread and legislation, I would like to remember that this document was composed of the social intervention of the most significant and dynamical agents of San José's Escanomia, which he received between 2017 and 2020 years of activity. As far as I'm not mistaken, the ALLS NO was spoken of as the High Council of the Basque Cosoperaties, the Confederation of the Basque Cooperatives, the Confederative of all the Faiths which they make up of the Mondragon Corporation, the Humane, or the alternative economy, and the network of the Consolidaries. In this document the three forums, the town councils of the three capitals, and Eudel, as well as the four greatest unions, and the three colleges, took possession of it. Besides, they had also the support of the united and other corporations and consuls. Later on, this document, this communication, was brought to this parliamentary town, and we gave it to 58 resolutions. On this account our party agrees with what the chief physician had said about it in the reply of the interpelration which produced this motion. In other words, this business of the Economy Department of Society formed this communication, that this plan created a real alliance for the establishment, extension, and expansion of society in Esunomia of Espronomy, although in this monographicographic we did not approve of it by its proper name. This plan, which we accepted without the name of the treaty, has a kind of definition of socialonomy, which can only be a Coperative, Mutuency, Society, and Fundas, with the solutions of European institutions connected with the Social Commercial and Social Commercial rights. It also connects the state of socialonomy with plans between the different departments of the government and the different departments of society, in order to co-ordination of actions, and to enjoy the support and protection of social phenomena in such employments, such as 2020 of the Strague Plangue Plant, 2017-20, or The Young Endless, the Plang of Industrial Institutions, Mark 2020 of the Industrial Institutions. They're all budgetd. For all I have already said, when we saw the original activity of the Pontulacian Party, at the beginning of last year, we were cut short. That is to say, the impression we had was, in a sense, that what the Populous party demanded, that it was to return to the first square, the only contribution we derived from the text of the Moment, that we should call that which we approved in that monographice of last year, "The Euscal Testament of Human World." With respect to content, and as I have now attempted to explain in the foregoing explanations, because the demand for motion was complete, or was being filled. This is our position in front of the wall. But before I begin to point out what they ought to be, let me be allowed to make two particulars for me. In our humble opinion, any subject of this field must be treated, we should never forget that the concept must always be the socialnomys. And the second is from the 2020-20-20 activities plan of the Economics Government, when I have described what and how it is doing, I have made so many agents. In fact, we think we should remember very well that we have a large group, a very large one, in the sector of the social economy of Euscalia Escanomia Ercolnomy. But also, fortunately, there are other operators besides this group of reference. And if we don't have that view or lose it, the whole village view will be lame. And I think we should be worth any subject of this criterion, unless it be so, because every strategy is only a sketched piece of paper. In this strategy of ours today, we must not forget that, apart from the public policies which are supplied with plans, actions, aids, and budgets from the Government, there is another field which we have to insert, and which has been introduced into this legislature by civil society. I'm talking about an inclusive pattern. That could lead to the transformation. It's the transform, it's the company's worker Therefore we will not despise other experiences, because we may learn from them all; but we defend ourselves that we have the proper standard of our socialnomy, which may lead us to attain a more perfect course, a fruitful result, and a more balanced, and more consistent society. In order to promote, to create, to modify, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, to increase, and to co-operate, our co-operation, as well as to the public. As this government has done in doing 2017 to 2020 activities in the Department of Economy. Our model is also connected with the social responsibility of business, which places itself at a higher level in social society, because it tries to involve every company and the whole society. The panomama which the future offers us, from the point of view of work and of its social feeling, will often be doubtful, but it is one of the certain that social appearance offers us a paradigm, in which the inclusion, the participation, and the tolerable human development are delivered. Euskadin's experience and an exemplary reality is the time to establish and confirm it. And for this purpose it seems interesting and rational to us that by the guidance and contribution of other groups we are proposed to us in the intermediate proposition. That is to say, in three months' time, let the Government bring us a report of the compositions of the day's compositions of monographics, and, as soon as this initiative is approved, let it begin with the eucalyptic strategy of social economy, or, in its case, a strategic planat. Believe me, when I say that it's really a joy to all of us to agree on these grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u35	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. When the second answer turns out, is anyone willing to participate? Now that we've ended our discussion, we're going to vote with the Basque Populars, Euskal Socialists, together with Podemos, EH Collectors, and the Eubertarians, the middle-class correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 73; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u36	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. First point in theme list: "EtH collect, and together with the historical memory of the law of law-produce by parlamentary groups of Podemos. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you've been disoriented. We shall therefore, without reading, proceed to dispute. Who wants to participate in the next round, apart from these two groups? That's all. So, Mr. Hernandez, your word is to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u37	Good morning, congressmen. Today we bring to debate a proposal for a law of historical memory, elaborated and proposed by the Basque Platform against the Crimes of Francoism, which also accompanies us. A platform that brings together in Euskadi different associations for the recovery of the historical memory, associations of victims of the dictatorship and the fascist coup of 1936, as well as various historical, political and trade union organizations relevant in dealing with this issue, because they were also collective victims of that military uprising and that abject dictatorship. A platform that is playing a fundamental role in our community for the recovery of historical memory and for the search for the principles of memory, truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition, which must govern actions, policies, but also legislation on historical memory. It is, therefore, in our view, a proponent with an indisputable moral authority for this issue; a civil society proponent who should be given an opportunity and who, of course, cannot be ignored from the institutions. They cannot be ignored from this Parliament and must not be ignored from the Government. Unfortunately, in our view, to date and on this particular issue, the platform has not had the most appropriate treatment by the Basque Government or by some parliamentary groups. That is the only reason why we are here today in this way and not in any other way possible. That is why today two parliamentary groups bring a proposal for a law that is not ours, that we do ours, but that is the proposal for a law of an important platform that has been engaged in seeking this formula as the only real opportunity for us to have in this legislature a law of historical memory in Euskadi. The Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government did not want a historical memory law because they did not see it necessary, and they defended it for a long time. In February 2018 we discussed this issue, after this Parliament had previously rejected an initiative that Mr Arzuaga brought and defended in this House, after this Parliament also rejected the proposed law on legal redress for the victims of the dictatorship that we brought Elkarrekin Podemos. In February, as I said, in 2018, we discussed this issue and agreed on a non-law proposal by the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, in which we urged Gogora to make a report on potentialities and shortcomings in memory policies in Euskadi. My coalition, Elkarrekin Podemos, tried to make it clear in that agreement that the Basque Parliament considered a law of historical memory necessary, because, as I explained, we had already made the matter clear and argued that it was necessary, but the Basque Nationalist Party did not agree. The possible agreement, which we reached, was that, depending on the report, the law "in its case" should be committed, introducing that expression of "in its case" because the Basque Nationalist Party believed it at that time unnecessary. The final report, commissioned by Gogora to some experts, came in November last year and the Basque Nationalist Party continued to maintain, after learning the report, the same opinion: there was no need for a law of memory. The platform appeared in this Parliament three months after this report was published in February 2019. He compared the report in his hand to explain the reasons why the Basque Government, or Parliament, should either promote a law of memory. At that appearance, they asked Parliament to draw up a memoir law and asked the groups whether we were prepared to push it forward. Regrettably, the main party in the government, the Basque Nationalist Party, once again said in that appearance, once again and clearly, that they considered a law of historical memory unnecessary. This is the position maintained by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government until last July. This is the only reason why in that appearance the platform explained that it would bring a popular legislative initiative so that a law of memory could be debated and passed. The Basque Nationalist Party was not prepared to enact a law that he himself called unnecessary. And the Socialist Party, although it expressed its support for the law, in our view it was trapped in a government that did not think it should be promoted or developed. That is why the platform told all groups, in February, that they would bring the law, because they saw that it was the only option for us to discuss this law and see the light in this legislature. The Basque Nationalist Party knew this, the Socialist Party knew this, and the Basque Government also knew this. Government parties had been fully aware since February that the platform would bring an initiative in the logical form of ILP. The Government knew him perfectly well and at no time, between February and July, did anyone say that they would change their mind. The Basque Government maintained that same position after that appearance and only two days after the platform presented its text in this Parliament in July, it told journalists that they were already drafting a draft, which no one had ever heard of. We had not heard of the parliamentary groups, had not heard of it the platform and other memorialist associations, and had not even heard of it one of the partners of the government, the Socialist Party. In our view, it was a clear operation to nullify the platform's initiative and perhaps have an argument to reject it. The Government, we believe, was not prepared for Parliament to adopt a platform initiative on an issue on which they did not intend to legislate and which had been labeled unnecessary by the Basque Nationalist Party in a committee of this Parliament. I have already said on one occasion in this Chamber that neither the Government agreement nor the legislative programme presented by the Government for this legislature contain any trace of historical memory. It was therefore not among the Government's plans to promote legislation in relation to historical memory in this legislature. And I repeat what I said on another occasion: we have never criticized this because the government is not the only actor with the capacity to push legislation and, therefore, what we do – and we do it again today – is to highlight that we have a legislative chamber, a Parliament where there are groups that have the capacity to push legislation on historical memory and where there is a civil society that also has the tools for this Parliament to legislate. What we find critical, however, is not so much that the government parties did not intend to put forward legislation on historical memory, but that when opposition groups or, as in this case, the platform put forward a proposal for an integral historical memory law, you reject it and that it is not the first time you reject it. We believe that if the Government was not willing to move a finger on this issue, it is not acceptable for them to reject it. We do not think it acceptable for you to do this with a subject – and I said it again – that we know that it is sensitive to you and that we know that it is sensitive to the different groups in this House, in a country that experienced that fascist military coup and 40 years of brutal and terrorist dictatorship. We think, although, of course, we are going to ask you to change the orientation of the vote, but, if not, we think you are going to make a third mistake, such as the one you made the day I defended in this rostrum that proposal for the legal reparation of the victims of the dictatorship and as the error that you, in our opinion, made the day you rejected Mr Arzuaga's GNP. Because today's approval of the consideration of this bill depends on us having a law of historical memory in this legislature. What we are voting on today will or will not allow the law to arrive in time. Today we will vote to have or not have a historical memory law in this legislature. You know that our coalition has repeatedly expressed itself on the need to discuss and adopt a law of historical memory for our community, because we consider it necessary to have more comprehensive legislation than currently existing one, but above all because it must be ordered and provided with a legislative framework that harmonizes and orders the policies and actions related to memory in our community. State legislation, mainly Law 52/2007, the well-known Historical Memory Act, which has been emptied for a long time, in addition to being improved, has to be landed in our community, providing us with specific legislation. And the existing autonomous legislation to date has to be supplemented with an integral law that orders and directs policies and actions for historical memory, avoiding – and this is very important – that these are at the dawn of the will of the government in turn, or of the greater or lesser dedication and commitment of the Gogora institute. And this is not a criticism of the existing legislation in this community to date, of which my political party has participated, and in a decisive way, nor is it a criticism of the actions that Gogora Institute has been carrying out since its inception. It is simply to say that we need that law to ensure that no one can ever make the historic memory policy without a framework, which cannot be done arbitrarily. To say that it should not be allowed to become arbitrary is not to say that it is being done arbitrarily, but I think we have to share that we need that framework. The steps taken so far, both in the competence of the State and in our community, have not been sufficient, because we still do not have the necessary legislative instruments to develop our memory on the basis of these principles of truth, memory, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. And it is necessary, in our opinion, to legislate in the matter of historical memory, because we live in a country, I have already said, which suffered a bloody uprising, armed coup against the democratic reality, which triggered a terrible war and instituted a dictatorship, and which ended with all democratic vestiges, causing hundreds of thousands of victims and violations of human, civil and political rights. A regime that did not end abruptly and therefore left many tasks to be done, and this is one of them. If four decades after the end of that dictatorship it has not been possible to close the wounds that are so much talked about, it is, among other things, because the laws of the new system have not been enough or the most convenient, in many cases, to ensure the principles of which we have spoken. And that's why we have an important task ahead of us. But we are on time, and it is now up to us to address a law of historical memory in Euskadi, and that is why we think that we should give our support to this initiative that, in reality, brings the Platform against the Crimes of Francoism. We must support this proposal for a law which, in our view, should have the support of all groups or, at least, those groups that support the Government, in today's vote, and then amend it. Yeah. The proposition of law is, without a doubt, like everything in this life, improveable, and it will lack necessary things, sure. And there will also be those who think it contains excesses, which, if anyone thinks so, can be dealt with and discussed in the amendment process. Today we do not approve or reject the content of that law, but we are going to approve or refuse to process the proposed law, so the question is whether we think it appropriate to address a law of historical memory or not. For my group, that is the fundamental issue today and, above all, whether it is important for us that this law sees the light of this legislature or not. If we vote in favour today, we will have a historic memory law in this legislature; if this Parliament today rejects this bill, we will not have it in this legislature. To vote against means that, at best, we will condemn ourselves not to have such a necessary law until several years from now, in the next legislature, and we will see what happens. That is why all I want here today is to join the request made yesterday by the platform itself, calling on the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of the Basque Country, calling for reflection, calling for an opportunity, calling for the sense of the vote of the groups in this House to be the same as that day when we agreed on a non-legislative proposal. I think that they should not be afraid of being taken into consideration, I think that the content issues that may concern the groups supporting the Government can be addressed in the process of amendments, I think that the correlation of forces in this House should not lead you to have any kind of fear on this issue. I am absolutely convinced that if we give way to this initiative today we will be able to ensure that the final content of what is started today will have the majority support of the House and, of course, my group on this issue will be very serious and very pragmatic. Therefore, I invite you to give a chance to process this law. Let us not delay the matter any longer; we all have clear ideas. The Government now appears to have changed its mind and believes that the drafting of a law is necessary. Well, let's not waste any more time, let's start the process today. We are convinced from our coalition that the result will be to everyone's liking and, above all, it will be useful to our society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u38	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Azuga, representative of the EH Group, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and welcome members of the Basque Platform against the crimes of Frankism, victims of franchise, who are present with us today because of this initiative which, after all, we present, is here and discussed with us. And I have to tell you, it's an honor to me and my team to bring your initiative here. During these few days of October, 82 years ago, the shooting of the soldiers and militiamen of Santña had been shot, during the few days of October, by Lluís Companys, who had been shot for 79 years, 55 years ago, Franco, the day of Hipanity or race, and in these few days the government of the 78 has become more and more like the regimen with 75. We wouldn't have had any data like this, we wouldn't have remembered these events, we wouldn't have had any historical perspective if someone hadn't taken a photograph of memory. Memory has no expiration date, but its benefits. Day by day the victims of a law of memory disappear without pity, or of a francism which is its own. Nature, or age, leads people who did not take away the pheasant regime, and they disappear without having a law to protect their memory. Today we could get to work. Today, if there were no party regattas and short maneuvers, we could get to work. If there was a will today, we could have a historic memory law before this legislature ends. One cannot blame that we have not tried: Elkarrekin's initiative Podemos of November 2017, rejected; Euskal Herria Bildu's initiative of February 2018, rejected; a couple of months later we assumed to request a report on public historical memory policies in Basquedi, understanding that things could be unlocked; eight months later, the report concludes that a comprehensive legislative structure must be built to unify and harmonize historical memory policies in Basquedi. Comprehensive law. The report remains in the drawer until 6 February, which is attended by members of the platform at the Commission on Human Rights to assess the findings of the report. Questioned by our intention, three groups were in favour of taking up the task of providing us with a law. The PP, we know, denies all kinds of recognition to these victims, who are under their responsibility for their legacy of fascism. They don't exist, they don't deserve recognition and reparation, and it's okay. It's a scandal, but no one will blame you for this attitude. Ramírez-Escudero was the spokesman for the PNV in that commission. He interpreted that, and I quote, "it is a report that solves absolutely nothing and whose reading cannot be deduced from the fact that they recommend that there be a law, that a law of historical memory be made in Euskadi". He concluded: "We are not against strictly to say no to a new law, but we see it unnecessary." These were his words. PSE, Elkarrekin-Podemos, EH Bildu in favour; PP and EAJ/PNV against. The platform, faced with this correlation of forces, assumes to bring us a proposal in the form of a popular legislative initiative. You can't claim ignorance, gentlemen of the PNV; you knew what the proposal had moved the platform to us because it appeared the next day in the media. In The World Deia Race Facing such an effort on the part of a popular initiative is not a whim. Similar mobilization challenge for an association is no joke. It has its good part, I interpret, since it creates opinion from the base, it is done pedagogy on the importance of historical memory, mobilizes, active, socializes... What is a value to me seems to be that for the PNV it has been a nuisance, because it erodes the monopoly that you think you have on memory. Faced with such daring of the platform, the alarms jump and the crisis committee meets; Gogora is launched, to the race; an expert is hired to draw up the draft of a preliminary draft, they say that, in addition, with a clause of confidentiality ‘I have to ask for information on this,' at the same time, and unaware of this manoeuvre, the platform registers the initiative on 3 July in this Parliament. It is then, two days later, when the government comes out hasty, to announce that the law already brings it to them. They assure us that they will bring it quickly, because the text is very advanced. However, it is not approved in the Governing Council until 20 days ago, and it is not taken to the Gogora Directorate until yesterday. This is the sequence of facts and I also consider that it is absolutely unappealable. I'd like to make a comment about the anti-relationship you gave me. It's true. We accepted another legal proposal to ask for a report, and thus read on the other proposal: because PNV never clearly has needed a law, he will proceed to a law on the integral of historical memory." The government interprets that this order is the source of regret to make a sketch of the bill before the law, but it is not so. This other proposition of the law, in some measure, sends it to the parliament, does not reflect it, but sends it forth to the magistrates who are to set forth a law. The platform had the same legitimacy, either through an ILP, or by a law project, to bring in such a project as this. You publicly said there was no need for laws, but you were working in private. The platform showed their integrity in the representation of the parliament in February. And you, governments, tough ones, have ruined the NILP career. A second quote. The government's judgment is as follows: "You're saying it's not necessary for me to give you a legal proposal" with the "Jeacher's already pushing." And here it seems that there's a competition to see who brings the initiative first. And it's not who puts the medal on it or it's not the leadership who gets it on this one. Here it is that time passes: the victims are in a hurry to be a law; they are losing knowledge of facts, and those who deserve attention are disappearing. Basque society has an emergency for re-establishment of dignity. The new generation requires new acquaintance and assurances that it should never happen again. And the only thing you guys get with your initiation is that it's gonna give them time to slow them down. A third quote about the government's judgment, because it says it has difficulties and privations. Apparently, it's only a government that's infected. Indeed, Mr Erkoreka signed this opinion against this proposal being taken into consideration, because he said that the law has drawbacks and deficits. But in the meantime, you said in a press conference that although they are not 100 % coincident, they have many elements in common. Why then reject its processing? You can make any amendments from the two groups that support the Government. Seeing that this does not go with the PP, between the PSE and the PNV, moreover, they have a comfortable majority, if they are to block on this issue, to approve their amendments, to bring their positions to this process. Because here, too, there's a comparative aggravation. The platform, organized citizenship, cannot make amendments; parliamentary groups, yes. The platform has to be content with making allegations to the preliminary draft, that is, mere comrades. Is this the role that is given to organised civil society? For those who do not know him, the Platform against the Crimes of Francoism received the René Cassin Human Rights Award in 2015. I was there and I think it was a great day. This forces me to do a couple of thoughts. What is the Government's relevance for this award? What's the logic of the award? Securing the Acrytic Adherence of the Award-winning? Maybe they thought that while they were operating in Argentina's lawsuit, far away, they wouldn't bother. Everything for the victims of Francoism without the victims of Francoism? If you treat a recognized association with the highest award for human rights in this country, I don't want to imagine how you will do it with an organization that doesn't have it. This attitude shows a distrust; even more, it shows an absolute contempt for associationism in general and the Crimes Platform of Francoism in particular. It's not just a matter of form. You may perhaps think that I am making a great effort in the form, that the periods are increasing, but I think there is also a problem of funds, because there is a question of ambition in the heart of it. Our law and the text now brought to us by the platform brings attention to victims, and we even made a definite proposal to give them indemnization. It is true that it can be discussed and improved, but as we have admitted from the other victims, we must also admit indemnizations to the victims of franchise. And what does the government's pre-eminent project anticipate about this? Indefs. He adds an additional regulation, which considers the measures of financial attention, and says: "Refused by the high school, and by the decision of the Government Council, a technical committee will be appointed, and, as soon as this law enters into force in a year's time, they will make a study of it by describing the prices of money for the victims granted by the regulations of the State and the Renaissance." He does not anticipate indemnization; he demands a report, that the law should be approved and brought to him in a year, and that perhaps these indemnizations will be taken into consideration. Where and when does that put us? Twenty-21? 2022? This is not acceptable. This is not acceptable. Read besteko proposed to beat wrong of gaur ekimen hau atzera botatzen bada, txosten hau eskatzeko eta mahai henean eduki tenagun lege-prozesu hau zabaltzen denerako. If, as it seems, the initiative brought by Elkarrekin Podemos and us today is rejected, at the end of this debate I will register a GNP to request a report on the compensation to be given to the victims of Francoism, so that it is ready for the legislative debate and no further delay is made. The platform wrote, in the explanatory statement to be its ILP, that if this "society really wants to overcome a drama like it was (...) the military coup of the 36th, the war that followed it, and the political regime that established itself over the ruins of coexistence, it becomes necessary (...) to restore the historical truth, to give voice to those who, brutally, were deprived of their life, their history, their memory". This has been the main objective of the platform when it was launched to manage a legislative initiative that, in the face of the government's decision to short-circuit it, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu try to save in this plenary. A text that may not be the text of EH Bildu or Elkarrekin Podemos, but we thought that it was worth discussing, that it was worth considering, as it is going to be, for a legislative discussion; it served to equip us with an imperative law that would guide the memorialist action in this country and reparation to the victims of Francoist terrorism, without delay, because time is pressing. Today we will be voting on progress or delaying deadlines; today we will be voting on progress or delaying everything. There will be a law, but it will come too late for so many victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u40	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Anybody wanna be on the counter shift? No. Now that we have finished our discussion, we will vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the conference, 70; the votes given, 71; the supporters of 27; the opponents of the enemy, 44; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u41	So the bill was ignored. Next, we'll go to the vote. representing the population party. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u42	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Of course it is necessary to build a memory when hatred is imposed at a certain time in history; to build that memory so that it does not happen again, so that we do not forget what it generated, what it provoked, what caused that hatred. And hatred was imposed in our society, it was imposed with wars and dictatorships, and hatred was also spread with the presence of ETA and terrorism, and its totalitarian project, from which its consequences still follow. And today we see how some in Catalonia want to impose hatred and manifest it with violence, with attacks on the rule of law and justice. I would like to condemn the violence and attacks that are taking place today in Catalonia and the culture of hatred that independenceists are trying to spread in those lands, and to proclaim our confidence in the rule of law, in judges and in democratic laws. And in relation to this proposal of law, we have already expressed in some previous debate, in relation to this proposal of law, that for us it is not necessary. We have discussed the same thing three times, already expressed it in the two previous initiatives of EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos. But, in particular, this proposition of law, from our point of view, is not well raised as a historical memory, a historical memory with great oblivions, and there is nothing but to read the definitions of the terminology glossary. But, in any case, as this debate will continue through other bills, we will go into that analysis. The Basque Government has announced a bill to us. We know, we have seen the draft that Gogora sent us and, well, we will work on it. There is a view of the Government and we believe that it will be better to work on the draft, on the draft law, when the Government brings it to this Parliament. A bill is accompanied by legality reports, the COJUA report, the Office of Economic Control. We will also see the allegations made by that draft and draft bill and whatever the bill is. That is, we understand that as legal certainty and as legislative and parliamentary security it will be much stronger and much better to work on that draft and on that legislative document. That's how we understand it and we'll work. That is, there are also expert criteria. Mention has been made of what has been worked on in Gogora in relation to public policies of memory, with analyses of whether a comprehensive law is needed, if it is not necessary, if it is not necessary, but that the Law of the Institute of Memory and Co-existence should be improved or completed or expanded. There's an element of analysis there too. That expert approach has also been interesting, important. This expert approach spoke, above all, of strengthening what is already in place in relation to memory policies. We'll see how it goes. In any case, hearing some speeches, it seems that nothing has been done in relation to memory policies. Hearing some speeches, it is that nothing has been done, there have been no rules, there have been no laws, there have been no reparations, there has been no analysis of what has happened; it seems that nothing has been done, it seems that we are beginning to generate some approach in relation to what happened, with the dictatorship, with the Civil War. And many things have been done, and there they are, policy initiatives, there they are. Without going further, an important law that is still in operation, which is a law for all of Spain. It seems that we want to compartmentalize what we suffered or what many Spaniards suffered, and together, in relation to what could have happened in many moments. And there's a Historical Memory Act. It seemed, by some alarmist speeches, that nothing had been done. In that regard, we consider that this proposal for a law is not necessary; we have sufficient elements for that analysis and for the answer. This Parliament created the institute of memory, an institute that hangs on the budget of Lehendakaritza, which has an important budget and establishes concrete actions in the matter of memory and analysis on the part of the events that happened in the Civil War or in the dictatorship. There are the experts, as I say again, who were entrusted by this Parliament, and after Gogora, with a report on public policies in memory. They bet more than by an integral law, by enlargement or by continuing to work on the law that created the institute of memory and coexistence. And there's that opinion and we value it too. That is why we will vote against this consideration. Of course it would be a sarcasm to pass a bill of historical memory from the hand of those who do not consider a recent memory of the terror and hatred caused by ETA. It would be a sarcasm to approve an initiative by someone who remembers the historical memory and does not remember the recent memory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u43	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, lehendakari... He's not here. Good morning, Sailburuok, you represent the associations and memorial platforms, ladies and gentlemen, egun on guztioi. Well, the Basque Socialist Group has just cast a consistent vote. Coherent not only with our well-known position on historical memory, but also consistent with the mandates of this very House, those adopted by an overwhelming majority. And today, beyond the outcome of this vote, this is what the Socialists want to highlight again. Indeed, it has already been said by Mr Hernández. On February 14, 2018, four parliamentary groups, the two proponents and the two partner government groups, agreed to entrust a report to Gogora for the identification of the outstanding needs of public policies in favor of historical memory, those that we could improve on those already achieved and within our competence. And as you will recall, that report was sent in time at the end of last year. From there, and in a position fully and constantly defended by my group, we approached the drafting of a draft that took into account both the state regulatory framework, initiated with the law of the Socialist Government of Spain in 2007, as well as the actions for its development and the legislation itself approved by this House, which gave rise in 2014 to the creation of Gogora, in order, of course, to deploy a comprehensive legislative framework. This draft, as you know – as has been said – was entrusted to a technical group with recognized experience in regulatory development in other autonomous communities, and in which we have been working intensively. The text has been forwarded and made public and is therefore open to any improvements in its prior processing, including those contributions that can be made by all the associations and memorial platforms – to which from here we transfer our express recognition and which, of course, cannot be understood, as Mr Arzuaga has said, to be mere partners in this matter. It should be recalled that these memorialist associations paralyzed their legislative initiative when they learned that the Government was working in this regard. Therefore, at the time of presenting this bill, it was already known that a bill was being drafted, which is what the Basque Socialists have always advocated. So the fact that today the groups that bring this initiative bring us this that the promoters of the ILP had decided to paralyze is nothing more than the confirmation, too, that the propositions presented by Elkarrekin Podemos in the autumn of 17 and that presented by Bildu a few weeks later were not even considered by the proponents themselves to be the most appropriate ones. In any case, in all the debates we have said what we are back and we are going to repeat it again today. And it is that we confirm our inexcusable commitment to the recognition and reparation of those who suffered assassinations, persecution and oblivion in our country's counets at the hands of the Franco dictatorship; a commitment, the socialist, which is endorsed, as I said before, by the elaboration of the Historical Memory Act of 2007, which managed to channel the then Minister Ramón Jáuregui; a commitment that is also evident in its development in Euskadi, from the department that then headed the Idoia Mendia councilwoman in the socialist government of the lehendakari Patxi López; a commitment that is also in the momentum that we gave to the Gogora project. And a compromise that we have certified from our group throughout all the debates in this House, including the general policy debates, because for us this matter is nuclear material. We have always said that it is necessary to complete everything that entails recognition and reparation for these victims. And, indeed, they have said it before, it is much more important now, because we are facing a genuine democratic challenge and we are seeing its full dimension. For years we have seen that the PP government between 2012 and 2018 had effectively emptied, as Mr Hernández said, resources and, therefore, content of the Historical Memory Act. But now the challenge is even greater: it is not only an absolute contempt for the victims with repeated expressions of shame, but also certain autonomous governments are literally reversing the principles of dignity and memory. And we here in this House cannot allow that to happen. So, paraphrasing Mrs. Mendia in the last plenary of general politics, she said that "we must lift up all the slabs of memory upon those who were shot, persecuted and enslaved during Francoism." Indeed, Mr Hernández has said so, but what must be ratified here is that the drafting of this law did not appear in the legislative urgency of any group in this House, and we are aware that the victims always feel that we are late. And they're right about that, but we'd all have to look inside. Now the important message for the victims of the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship is that, after this debate, there is the determination of at least a very large majority of this House – we hope it will be unanimous, hopefully! – to culminate in a Basque law that complements the state, from the conviction that we owe it to those who gave everything and lost everything to preserve freedom and democracy, so that they regain the dignity of the one they intended to strip them of. And if we work on it, on this will of agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u45	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u46	...there's time, there's time, Mr. Arzuaga. Our parliamentary horizon ends in a year, and in this Parliament there are plenty of experiences of shared wills that come into law in a very short time. So from our group we put them to it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u47	Thank you. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u48	Mrs. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, a confession worthy of the way it was made. A precursor Euskadi in the sight of the victims of Francism, the pioneer found and derogized the bodies of the victims. We have been the only community that has formed the observation of the laws of the Hiestric Memory. Thanks to the work of many organizations, operators, and persons, the commitment to historical memory has always been very clear in the Eucolytes, the Jestric Party, including the Galevian Seat Party. And having acknowledged this course, the reasons why the law-proposing should not be protected by the law which was present to-day: as regards content and forms, we do not agree with the proposal. This proposal forgets that AMIK has already introduced a pre-public project known to the legal teams and social operators. "Mercy's texts are getting much better challenges for the future." And above all, he considers the work which has hitherto been done in the resumption of historical memory, and the measures and measures which this legislature has adopted. This legal proposition, which we have voted, does not take any notice of the work which has hitherto been done in historical memory, does not account for the laws which this Basque parliament has accepted, or the indemnizations given to those who were imprisoned, or the laws given by the franchise apparatus to all who have been killed and wounded, not even the law of the origin of the high school. Seeing this bill of law, we must begin from zero on this Eukadin theme, it's as if nothing had been done, trying to hide real reality. And the question is: Why? Why this bill of law presents itself knowing that the law was made by Red MU MUCC, knowing that the promoters of the public's legislation had turned back when they knew the episode of fun, knowing that Euskadadi is the one who's done the most work to recover his historical memory from the state. Knowing all this, the question is: why does this law-man bring about as if nothing had been done here? The answer, in a word: 'Tis a quantity of And in the face of demagogy, recognition, respect and continuity to the path travelled. Discreet work and maximum consensus, without boasting or protagonists. That is how we have acted so far, because this country has acted and has been a pioneer. Pioneer with the Victims of Terrorism Act, pioneer with the Victims of Human Rights Violations Act known as Police Abuse And this proposal of law has entered as an elephant in cacharreria: a lot of noise, but it has not sought consensus. Moreover, it has avoided it consciously and voluntarily, to the point that we, at least – not others – have had access to all texts through the press. And it is that today we do not seek to process a law, we seek to mark political terrain, and, moreover, during the electoral period. Noise. Not only that, the elephant pretends to make believe that nothing has been done in Euskadi to date in this matter. The proposal for a law ignores the commitment of years in associations and institutions, ignores the laws adopted in this Parliament, ignores the compensation paid to those who were imprisoned, ignores the reparation to the victims of the Francoist apparatus between 1960 and 1978, ignores even the law establishing the Gogora institute approved in this House, ignores all its activity for almost five years. And Euskadi has been able to find ways to recognize the historical memory, always from respect to those who acted previously, from discretion and from maximum consensus. This is the attitude that deserves an authentic historical memory. And one more reflection on the thread of what we've been hearing these last few days and weeks. It is very difficult to share memory agreements with those who manipulate it to the extreme to equate the Gudaris and militiamen with the ETA terrorists; it is very difficult to share agreements with those who claim that the Gudaris of Artxanda and Zirardamendi or the Intxortas, who defended freedom, democracy and our rights against the coups, are the same people who wanted to impose their ideas by killing with shots to the neck or lapa bombs. Maintaining this attitude is fraught with any possible consensus on memory and coexistence in Euskadi. But the path of historical memory must be accorded: It must be admitted that the associations, the researchers, the scientists, and the institutions must continue their journey together. This is the key, and we make a clear commitment: We will have a law of historical and democratic memory that requires eucalyptics, and worthy of victims. We'll work hard for that, just like we've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u49	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, introduced to José Ramone Becerra Carollo together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos, about the Balsque Country Logistic strategy. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Becerra, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Our group is presenting a motion today to discuss logistics infrastructure in this country. We present this motion because the Government does not have a strategy in this area and is, however, financing investments with public money without measuring their need, suitability, effectiveness or profitability. The Government is acting on a tow of particular interests which, while legitimate, need not coincide with the public interest. Therefore, we would not like the debate today to be about logistics infrastructure, yes or no, but if we need, if we have to put public money, why we have to put public money, why we have to put public money, and with what expected benefit, both economic and social. Our team won't deny the importance of logistics in our current economy. In our economy, the merchandise are constantly moving, and transports and substructures required for the logistics. Our example is not permanent, but we cannot deny that, as it is before, there is need of logistics. But the propensities derived from the European Union are different. They're different, and we're asked to carry the goods from the road to the railway, to be transports, intermolas, and to take measures for the change of climate. Beraz, logistikarako gure azpiegiturak ezartzeko momentuan, bai Europar Batasunetik datzkigun joerak eta ekonomarianen bilakaerak aintzat hartu behar ditugu. Eta onartu behar badugu azpiegiturak behar ditugula, it was berean pentsatzen dugu ez ditugula guztiak behar eta ez posetu direnak bezain handiak. Needing logistics infrastructure is out of the question today. The question is how many, where and how big we need them, and for that we need planning, we need a forecast and we need a strategy that this country does not have. We do not have a strategy because in 2014 the so-called Basque Country Logistics was a paper strategy, a strategy presented on a website, that did not pass through the Governing Council and that has never been evaluated its compliance five years later. And we don't have the strategy, and neither do we have that brand. The Basque Country Logistics brand was registered by a private company in 2015 on behalf of a property management company based in the Salcedillo de Trapacaran polygon. If our Government does not have a logistics strategy and has let itself be removed, then what we have to ask ourselves is why we are investing public money without being clear what we spend it on, how we spend it, what we spend it on and where we spend it on it. And since we have no strategy, therefore the first principles are not established, the ends are not determined, and the designs are not measured or not divided. And the sects that support the government have declared that there is a strategy, but that it is contained in the just plan of the tolerable Transport. And it's not true. There's a plan that doesn't involve strategy. That we do not have a logistics strategy has several consequences, and I will highlight them with three practical examples. The three logistics platforms: that of Jundiz, that of Arasur and that of Pasaia-Irun. The multimodal platform of Jundiz, whose first phase consisting of the extension of the railway terminal has recently been launched by the Ministry of Development, has, however, a second phase, which is going to make it operational, which is that of the construction of the intermodal terminal. The Basque Government has run, and I would say that it has run for nothing, to reclassify 45 hectares of agricultural uses in the Partial Territorial Plan of Central Alava for this future intermodal terminal. What has not been said and what has not been taken into account – or has not been taken into account – is that this intermodal terminal can never work if the Basque Y is not finished. That is to say, we are proposing an infrastructure and we are running to start it up, without then being able to know when it will work or if it will ever do so. Second example, the Arasur platform. Here it is also proposed to equip this platform with another railway terminal – just 40 kilometers further – although there is a third railway platform in Pancorbo, which is the dry port of the port of Bilbao. This would qualify him as "giving money for nothing." This Arasur platform is owned on a 88% of a company (Araba-Logistics) of which, in turn, half of the capital is in the hands of a company that pays 0% of the company tax. The Basque Government has given 3 million for one railway terminal knowing that it is now developing another in Jundiz and another in Pancorbo. Therefore, all we are doing is giving money to a society that is not profitable, that has not been and will not be, without trying to assess what the return we will get from that investment will be. The Arasur platform lost 3 million in 2013; 2.3 million in 2014; 1.5 million in 2015; 1.5 million in 2016, and 2.5 million in 2017. It has a liability of 53 million euros and we still don't know what it's going to do. I end with a third example, that of the Lezo-Gaintxurizketa platform, next to the port of Pasaia. This platform was designed 20 years ago thinking about the merchandise traffic of that time; it was designed thinking of giving service to the external port of Pasaia, which is an infrastructure that has already been discarded. It is proposed to spend 128 million euros and, what matters most, and this would define it as "destroying for nothing" 180 hectares of rural land, with 22 cottages, to put another railway terminal, this time with 12 tracks, for Iberian width, for international width and for Euskotren metric width. The question is what will it do if the port of Pasaia is less and less traffic, if it is a declining port? Therefore, what I want to make clear in this debate is not whether we need logistical infrastructure or not, but how we do so that these infrastructures are planned with sufficient rationality and with sufficient transparency in the use of public money. That has to be the debate. That is why our motion, which we have negotiated with the Group of the European People's Party, is in the sense that there is a clear and clear strategy for what we need, what we do not need, what we give money for and what we do not give money for. Because in the times ahead, there is not our country, there is not the government to give money, to throw money into infrastructures that will not then be used for the task for which they were designed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u51	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. On the subject of the initiative presented by the Podemos group, once the inquiry or the motion had been made, Mr Becerra, in a very voluntary way, said that the strategy should be updated, but it is true, Mr Becerra, that there is no strategy. That is why the amendment made by the Group of the European People's Party to that motion says that, in fact, "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to develop the Basque logistics strategy, in coordination with the deputies (...) and with the Government of Spain", and presents it in this House so that we can get to know it. We also say what must be and has always been a strategy: with previous studies, which marks objectives, planning, measures to be implemented and measures for their subsequent review and evaluation, with deadlines and budgets. But it is that this strategy, brand, logo – we don't know what it is – doesn't have text, doesn't have website, is practically empty; but yes budget. Yes, yes, we go from fair to fair, we give money to the one who appears to us at every moment. I think the president of the port of Bilbao will have to explain why with this they give 80,000 euros every year, to come to explain it, because we do not know why they give 80,000 euros every year, based on this logo. And so many and so many things. So, here it's done backwards: it's put a box with money, it's made a logo and there we say we have a strategy. Then we sell it like we sell it. The reality, and I agree with everything Mr Becerra has put forward here, is that we have a geographical location that puts us in a position of reference in the logistic planning of liaison with Spain, Portugal and the rest of Europe; that we have a high potential of logistic structures, you have said: we have logistic polygons, a significant volume of goods and then we have the structures, the ports of Bilbao and Passages, the airports, the new railway network. The new railway network. We've been waiting for the new railway network for 20 years. Of course, who makes a strategy if we've paralyzed the railway network, right? Because the government has chosen it, the Basque Nationalist group has chosen it, and that is why they have again paralysed the railway network, with which we have everything in the air, and we have in the air all that logistic movement, because, in fact, the railway has to form an important part of this logistic strategy and in the logistic structures and in the ways and ways of transporting the goods, especially. And all this, as you said, Mr Becerra, requires coordination, and coordination, in addition, with the ministry. The ministry did in 2013 make a logistics strategy. There were very important bases of what logistics and strategy should be like, and it created the forum of the autonomous communities and created the forum of the logistic entities and the actors in logistics of the sector. And what does that strategy say? In this strategy they are working on some actions that were considered priorities: development of specific logistics regulations – there are many deficits and the sector calls for changes in this regulation, we have to match the rest of Europe–; the boost of the liberalisation of rail and commercial transport; the improvement of the training of the sector; the development of the code of good practice; the creation of a single window for the processing of administrative procedures; how to harmonise the documentation required in the transport chains – national and international –; analysis of the cargo capacities in road transport; the putting into service of railway motorways, of course; the optimisation of management models in intermodal terminals; agreements with the logistic sectors; the industrial one, to enhance alternative uses to those already established, to be more sustainable, to be more efficient; the increase of the competitiveness of ports; the putting into service of new motorways of the sea; the adaptation of the main railway corridors for the transport of goods... 20 years ago we went to see in other cities how the trucks were transported with the goods, with the cargo. There was an interest, it seemed, in moving that initiative here and making it possible. But no, we're standing still, we're not moving forward, we're passing the opportunities and we don't take them. And we go on, after 20 years talking about the same thing. We spend money, but it's not effective; besides not being transparent, it's not effective. So, we're doing it pretty badly. The performance we're doing is better. The Basque Country Logistics page is spectacular, I don't know if they've seen it. "Values: Collaborate to compete." So short: "Work together to compete". I don't know if they're talking about the Basque Country, if they're talking about Catalonia, if they're talking about Germany. "Mission: We are working to optimise the delivery of logistics and transport services in the Basque Country, through the development and enhancement of both infrastructure and logistics platforms (...), which will contribute to increasing competitiveness". Point. Vision: we will develop and "enhance and enhance the integrated logistics network (...) of the Basque Country". Point. There is no more, that is: "The Railway Corridor (...) TEN-T, which passes through Euskadi, is included as a priority" in the transport network since 2011. Nothing more. Synergy: we're back to "Working together to share." That's how the hub ends. And then they tell us, the amendment the groups make, right, they tell us, "No, no, it's that you don't find out. You don't know, because the logistics strategy is within the Euskadi 2030 Sustainable Transport Master Plan. We do the plan first and then the strategy." Hey, this is really innovation, this is the most innovative! They make, then budget, they spend, then they make the plan and then they include the strategy, they say, within the plan. This sounds very new to me, actually. What do you want me to tell them, really? Why don't we do things with a certain order, a certain decency and a transparent way? That is the amendment we have signed between the Podemos Group and the People's Group. I think it is a logical, transparent amendment. And let it be clear, let it be known to society as a whole and that we can value it, evaluate it. But, please, a text. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u54	Thank you, ma'am. I will try to stick more or less strictly to what the original amendment said, because in the end one then comes here and ends up listening to things that have little or nothing to do with what he said. Finally, I believe that if you want more details, what I would invite you to do is to exercise your opposition work, to ask for the appropriate appearances and to be advised, the Vice-Councilor or whoever you think it is appropriate to come to this Parliament to give you the explanations that you must or to give you that information in writing, also exercising your responsibility as a government. But it seems that in recent times it is becoming fashionable to come here, to Parliament, to shake the government, presenting one thing, coming to talk about another, which may have something to do with it, but not to strictly stick to what that non-law proposal says, without tone or are, with the aim of trying to undermine this government. Well, you will see, but I believe that the adviser was perfectly clear in Mr Becerra's question and was perfectly clear in the answer to the only question he has been asked about it. In short, what she came to say is that of course there is a strategy and that this strategy is incorporated into a plan. And what's wrong with that? Can't a strategy be incorporated into a plan, which sets out clear objectives and sets out measures to achieve those objectives? Is that not in itself a strategy, the achievement of objectives through concrete measures? Read the plan. There you go. They may like it more or less; they may find it more accurate, less accurate, more efficient, less efficient, more sustainable, less sustainable, but do not deny something that is obvious and that the counselor has already brought to your attention. In short, man, I do share that this is an opportunity. Of course it's an opportunity. I believe that neither this government nor anyone can escape that Euskadi is located in a key place, that it has a strategic enclave and that it is the gateway, the connection of the peninsula with Europe, and that this represents an opportunity and that this opportunity must be taken advantage of. I believe that this Government, not only this Government, but also the previous Governments, have tried to highlight this circumstance and have planned infrastructures, which have also adapted some of them to the new opportunities that were emerging, to the new circumstances that were emerging. And with the passage of time it will continue to be so. I believe that this Government has responded to the objectives that were being set, but above all to the strategic challenges that this country had in this area, as it has done in others. Finally, I believe that the activity on this issue has been permanent on the part, as I say, not only of this government, but also of previous governments. And all the objectives that were being set, which Mr Becerra put forward in the original initiative and which are also reflected in the compromise he has signed with Mrs López de Ocariz, are already being achieved. It's just that you haven't discovered the gunpowder. That's something you're already doing. All those goals and also the means to achieve those goals are in that plan. And this government has been transparent. This Government has that plan, published is, perfectly accessible to all of you. Read it, as I said, you may like it more or less, but that is it, and it has its objectives and I believe that in the transaction you have signed you are also well-received: promoting sustainable, responsible, intelligent economic development; universal accessibility; a new balance in the means of transport; enhancing the strategic position of Euskadi in the European Union; promoting and using an efficient, sustainable means of transport; integrated public transport, too. If it goes far beyond what you brought here! I don't know what's wrong with that, I don't know what you see wrong with the government having a plan and that strategy being already incorporated into that plan, with that plan and with concrete actions both in terms of public and private transport, and with the mention and development of interinstitutional collaboration, as it has also been historically between this country and other institutions, not only between the Basque Government and the three outlaws, but also between the Basque Government, the three outlaws and the Spanish Government, including the European Government. Finally, I do not know, the logistics platforms are perfectly planned according to the strategy that we have as a country and also according to the strategies that exist in the state and in the European Union. I do not know, I think it is something that is clear, meridically clear, and that it also incorporates new technologies, and that it also not only plans them thinking solely and exclusively of giving a service to foreign transport, to local transport, to national transport, but it also goes beyond and represents an opportunity to develop new technology that is done in Basquedi, which is an added value that we also have, not only our strategic geographical position, but our strategic position in the European Union economy, with that added value that we have in Basquedi. What's wrong with that? I believe that in the end the fact that we are collaborating between institutions, that there is also a public-private collaboration to develop these infrastructures is part of our day-to-day life. I think what you might have to do is look at it a little bit between you, because today you have signed a transaction that, as I said, says nothing new about what is already being done in this government. What is perhaps more strange is that two such opposing views on the future of infrastructure and on the future of certain infrastructure and transport issues in Euskadi have found a point of agreement in nothing to shake this government meaninglessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u56	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Mr Becerra, don't take this the wrong way, but I was convinced that this motion was not going to reach this plenary. First of all, because you supported the original inquiry there by May. Secondly, because the counselor, to my humble understanding, gave a complete answer to the doubts you had, although it seems you still have them. You founded your inquiry, and today this motion, in the absence of a logistics strategy, and you request that a new one be drawn up. Look, I understand that you, the opposition, do not like our amendments when we call on the government to "continue doing", to "continue working", to "continue improving" and, moreover, to understand it and I believe that there can often even be a meeting point. But, in this case, you have gone further: "Since I do not like what is there, I say that it does not exist and that you do it to my liking, without opposition, without choice. Since I don't like it, it doesn't exist and make another one please." And this, Mr. Becerra, is not so, is not so. I insist, I believe that you and I could find ourselves in the shade, in what can be improved, in what is not, in how to adapt the infrastructures in time, in space, in the moment, but, of course, when you start from a non-existent reality, because the margin for the agreement is narrowed to the minimum. The problem is that I believe, I fear, that you know, are conscious and with that speech you have come here today. By the way, you have reached the culmination of the compromise today: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to update it to develop the Basque Logistics Strategy". I don't know if I have to keep the update processing Either way, with one or another – I'm not going to surprise you – we're going to vote "no" in any case. We are going to vote that no one who asks for a new one because, as Mr Andueza said, it already exists. And to him who asks to be updated, we will vote that not because it seems to us that it is very difficult to update today. There is a logistics strategy – the adviser explained with hairs and signals there in May – a strategy that has its origin and its starting point in that Basque Country Logistics brand that you talk about, presented in 2014, and which defines the fundamental principles of government action. That is: mixed transport, competitiveness of our infrastructures and intermodality. But the world did not end in 2014, nor did it stop, neither this government nor the previous one. These principles have been defined in concrete plans. The Basque Country Logistics has evolved into a richer, broader concept, which also includes passenger transport, and which has come to be called "Basque Country Mobility". And this work is defined with objectives, actions, criteria, deadline and evaluation in the 2030 Sustainable Transport Master Plan, approved in 2017. From 2017 to here is the time to update something? This plan was explained to her by the counselor, I'm not going to go into details. But it includes throughout the plan topics that have to do cross-cutting with logistics, and explicitly everything in the fourth point. And we have also made progress, and you know it well, in areas that you are referring to in this amendment, including the entire transport area in the Energy Sustainability Act of the Basque Country. For example, if you take the effort to consult the plan, you will find that strategy that you say does not exist, with objectives and actions: And Basque As I tell you, the 2014 performance horizon has been broadened to stop talking about "Basque Country Logistics" and start talking about "Basque Mobility". And this policy cannot be carried out solely and exclusively by the Government. That's why BCLM was created in 2016 alongside the cluster, which in 2018 presented its first strategic plan. There you have more strategy and more planning, and recent. I'm talking about the 17s and 18s, this century, not the previous one, so maybe it's still, I think, a little early to update the present. That's why I tell them you're late. They may like more or less what is being done, they may like everything or they may like anything, that they respect them, but we are not at the time of defining the strategy, we are not at the time of the strategy, we are at the time of the development of the measures I have listed, measures studied, analyzed and with criteria, adapted to the needs of this country and its future. Euskadi must be a strategic logistic knot on the Atlantic axis for international trade. To this end, we are strengthening a set of infrastructures that are the key to sustainable economic development that guarantees connectivity and improves the competitiveness of our territory and its economic fabric, always in coordination with the actors involved. We can aspire and we must aspire to take a priority position on the whole Atlantic axis where in the future a volume of goods will circulate that opens up opportunities for the whole Basque economy. We need to be prepared and position ourselves as a competitive runner. We are working to make our industry more and more connected through intermodal connections. That is why, as I have already announced, we will vote against your compromise amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u58	Good noon, everyone. It's a shame to be talking about this today with everything that's going on in Katalunia. I think we have more important discussions to discuss here today and this week, but that's what I've got to talk about and that's what I'm talking about. I understand the intention of the Podemos together. It's a good impression, but that's the only thing I like about that proposition. Of course there is no strategy, or there is no-strategy And that is the only thing that can be expected of this government and that is the only thing that can be expected both separately from the Socialist Party and from the Basque Nationalist Party, and what to say together. That's the situation we've got all our lives and it's going to stay that way. I do not like the proposal because it does not pose the country that I like. He said that coordination was needed with the Government of Spain. And in the country that I imagine, the country that I feel, we should coordinate with the Commonwealth of Ipar Euskal Herria, because, really, if we want to connect with Europe, if we are talking about trans-European mobility, etc., and so on, I think we should do a country design. And a country design involves Nafarroa and involves Ipar Euskal Herria and involves the three historical territories. That would be the planning, management and strategy to be done. I'm not very close to making strategy papers. The truth that I agree with Mrs Ocariz: the website about the strategy is Basque Logistics I don't know what So, I don't understand very well why from Elkarrekin We can pose to the government a red carpet so that it buys time to do nobody knows very well what and invest public money in something that won't be very useful. Nor do I understand very well how Elkarrekin is allied We can on this issue with the People's Party because the position of the People's Party in its infrastructure policy – which does not differ at all from the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party – is known. I do not quite understand what the People's Party is doing by proposing a planned strategy based on macroeconomic numbers when, really, there has been no planning or anything in the places where it has been managing. That is, the systematic has been exactly the same: large cement mills, large construction companies and public policy and investment according to the needs posed by these lobbies, which are very powerful lobbies and sometimes it is difficult and difficult to say no to them, but it can be said perfectly that no. From the initiative I do not translate a non-construction Finally, there is a second reason why I do not like this initiative and it is that I do not find it tactically clever to pose it. I do not think it is wise to tactically ask the Government to have six months to legitimize everything it wants to do and to put it in a document. Because I already know what the result will be, if it is, because we all know that the GNPs that are raised here with deadlines then end up not being done, the Parliament ends by scolding them, but the government continues to do what it wants because it has the legitimacy to do so and it has the link with Parliament's decisions, as it has, and it is the one that protects it. I think that with this initiative, if it were approved, what we would do would be legitimize the government to make a document whose result I know I will not like anything because it will translate into a document all the infrastructures it already plans to do – some already in the bidding phase, others in the construction phase – and it will end up being a document that is the anti-document So I don't understand by Elkarrekin We can, in infrastructure policy, I don't understand the position of Elkarrekin We can because I think it's still warm, it's still offering a red carpet to the government so that this government will continue to do and undo what it wants, in a country where there is no more than one square metre of cement. For this reason, it goes without saying that we are not going to vote in favour of the amendment to the whole proposed by the groups supporting the Government, but that is why I understand that we cannot support this compromise proposal from the People's Party and Elkarrekin Podemos either. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Passing on the answer shift, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u60	Let me begin by saying that I understand that in this Parliament we make alliances on written texts, in general, also on ideological issues, there is no doubt, but generally on written texts. The position of Elkarrekin Podemos is as critical with these infrastructures as that of EH Bildu, surely, or more. I will not speak only of the Lezo-Gaintxurizketa platform, but Arasur, Pancorbo, all we want to see. But it wouldn't have been bad if that moratorium, which I share, you had written it down and we would have reached an agreement, you and us, and maybe you wouldn't have joined other groups. It is easy to say that agreements are not reached when there is no alternative. The question here is not only whether we are critical or critical of infrastructure, that our group is critical, but what we do with the public money we invest in these infrastructure. To me, the truth is, it does not seem to me wrong that the Group of the European People's Party, in this case, shares a critical analysis of what we are doing with this money, because when the Government talks about public-private collaboration and you from the Group of the European People's Party buy it from it, in many cases what we are talking about is what is being done here. It is a lack of strategy or have a strategy only on a website, in order to be able to give public money to all infrastructures that leave the country, are necessary, are not necessary, are useful for something or are not useful for something. Mr Andueza could have done the work of tearing the government apart. I wouldn't have found it difficult to ask the advisor, exclusively, why when Oregi presented the Basque Country Logistics brand in 2014, only a year later, that brand is registered by a private company in her name, by a property company domiciled in the Trapacaran polygon, Salcedillo de Trapacaran polygon. That would have been to wear down the government. I would have stayed on that quietly. But, obviously, we're not just for that, we're not just for that – which is also sometimes, when there's no other remedy –; we're about to come up with solutions and alternatives. Of course our group before drafting this motion read the famous 2030 Sustainable Transport Master Plan. Mr Grajales, of course, that we read it, and in that plan there is not a single concrete and quantifiable objective of the country, of the country. What has been done in this plan is to collect the strategy of the private logistics sector and as, boom, it has been translated there. Because it is best not to have a strategy of its own, it is to take the strategy of the private sector and automatically give it money to do what it wants. It has not even gone to meet the demand, look, because there is not enough demand for all the logistics platforms that are being put in. There's not enough demand. We are creating platforms for them to compete with each other, all financed with the same public funds. And I'm going to give you an example. In Jundiz, our group is in favour of a railway motorway, a railway motorway that takes the trucks out and takes them to the railway. But it turns out that in Jundiz it plans to take out 130,000 trucks a year, which are like 2.5 million tons. And in Arasur it is proposed to remove 420,000 tons. They are the same tons: first they are made in Arasur and then they are made in Jundiz. And you count the mime tons for the two platforms, the same tons. We're doubling infrastructure. So, we have a Transport Master Plan that is not coherent and, in addition, we have a plan that is not up to date. The same quantities of goods are still being proposed for the Lezo-Gaintxurizketa platform as it was in the 1960s and we are not now transporting those quantities. 5.5 million tonnes are proposed in the Port of Passages in seven years, when it is currently in less than three, it is in less than half. You're destroying soil for destroying it, for destroying it. In Arasur no money is being invested, in Arasur public money is being buried. Every year, public money is being buried. Public money, giving it to a society that doesn't pay taxes, that doesn't pay taxes, that's a society. And if you want to know why Arasur has to compete with Pancorbo, don't look at Elkarrekin Podemos; look at the socialists, which was at the time when it was decided to invest in Pancorbo. And you tell the socialists why they invested in Pancorbo and not another 10 kilometers here in Arasur. But now the result is that we have three platforms: one in Pancorbo, one in Arasur and one in Jundiz. What do we do? Do we load the goods in Pancorbo, download them in Arasur and reload them in Jundiz for all to have activity? This is a misconception. This is a misconception of public money. And they should focus on that and not on whether these objects that the Government has are written or not, but on what they actually do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u62	The truth is, Mr. Andueza, it's amazing to hear you. He tells me to ask, ask for appearances. You chair a commission. The appearances that are requested in your commission, what periods have they taken? Eight months? Ten months? Are we now seeing appearances from February, March? What are you telling me, Mr. Andueza? I think... Please! Look, what we've come to say here is not if this infrastructure is, is not, if the railway network is, the railway network is not... There are logos, and one thing they call "strategy," which doesn't exist, which is a lie from beginning to end. Here we are, that the structures that the government has to make policy... This is a lie, it's a lie from beginning to end. And they use these tools to do other things that have nothing to do with logistics; they use elements of logistics to develop other activities, which they think are important, to the department. And I'm not referring, Mr. Grajales, to what year. I'll talk to you about September 2019. "Basque Country Logistics", they continue to use it as such. Official Gazette of the Basque Country, a resolution of the Department of Public Governance of the Government, in which it says: "In this sense, the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructures of the Basque Government, in the development of the promotion actions linked to the Basque Country Logistics...", which they are. He says, "No, we don't operate like this anymore, now it's something else." No, no, there it is, and they're still using it. And what are they using that for? To make an agreement with the president of the Port of Bilbao to identify new trade fairs or autonomous events and events. We're at the events. This is the platform they use for events. Of course, for events. And then €80,000 to the president of the Port of Bilbao, who is going to look for fairs and events where to go. This has another name, Mr. Grajales, this has another name, and like this other things. So, I think the whole tour we're going to... Today it is interesting for the Basque Government to be at one point and use this. It's not for a promotion of logistics platforms, not for an organization, not for action planning, no. It's a cover cover. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u64	Thank you, ma'am. It has become clear again what its objective is. They have thrown absolutely nothing new into the replica, absolutely nothing new. I've asked them a number of questions, I've told them to see if they're okay with that strategy being registered within that plan. Anyway, you guys do your thing. Some based their entire argument on the registration of a brand, which seems to them to be the most important of all this, the registration of the brand, what has been done with that brand. Everything, you base it all on that. Mr Grajales told you; here they had the Counsellor, following an inquiry from her, giving her the appropriate explanations; it was made quite clear to her. Whoever wanted to understand it, well; whoever didn't want to understand it, it's his problem, but there's everything. Do not come now to justify something that does not make any sense through this GNP. And I repeat to you, and I repeat to you, that if you want clarifications on specific infrastructures ask you, and I do not think that the counselor has any problem in coming to you to talk about the high-speed train, or the high-speed freight train, or the south-rail variant, or the logistics platforms, or the situation and operation of the ports in Euskadi, or even the Sustainable Mobility Act, which have not even been concerned about mentioning it, and it is another issue that seems to me to be of undoubted relevance, you should look at it. The brand and what this government does with the money. I don't know, I think you should ask the counselor, and as a result you will be able to give an informed opinion. You are not giving sticks of blindness and reaching absolutely unnatural agreements on an issue on which you have absolutely antagonistic visions, starting with all the questions I have put to you here on the table, starting with that, because you were not going to agree on any of the issues, on any of the issues, and that is what really matters: "Who has registered the mark?", "The website is empty" and "What is the money invested in this government?". Ask him. But man, Mrs López de Ocariz, let you come here and say "what money does this government invest, what money does this government waste, what use does this government make of public money...", when you are a representative of the People's Party, it seems to me, at least, quite cynical and hypocritical, with all due respect, after what the People's Party government has done with the public money of all Spaniards, with the money that the People's Party has used from the government to set up infrastructure. Those do not serve anything at all. With the waste of public money that the People's Party has invested in public societies,...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u65	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u66	... that they are useless, that they have no use and that they were born dead from the minute one to fill the box B
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u67	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u68	I'm sorry, but I think I've respected you, and I'm asking you for the same respect. I understand that you don't like it, I understand that you don't like it, and that I come here to get the colors out of you with a poor management of a game that is corrupt from top down. I understand they don't like it, but it's their reality. Look in the mirror and stop looking once and for all...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u69	Silence. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u70	... What this government does, that you have enough with your own, that you have enough with your own. In any case, what I will not consent to, Mrs López de Ocariz, is that you use this point to question my work as chairman of a committee, among other things, because you are bringing to this plenary initiatives that have been registered for more than a year and a half, and when you know quite well that any appearance that affects the Government, as far as the committee I chair, is being convened in time and form. And that if there is any problem, in most cases I contact you to give you the appropriate explanations, which in most cases are delays that occur due to agenda issues. With regard to 100% of the appearances you request on other entities, associations or natural persons, most of the delays are not motivated by this president, but by the impossibility or lack of interest that these people have to appear. So please don't question my work as president because I won't allow it. I don't allow it, much less when you don't have any serious arguments to put it on the table. And I say to you: here we are dealing with initiatives that you have been registering for more than a year and a half. They would have little interest and little relevance in these initiatives when they come here almost two years later to bring them. Do you have hearing problems, Mr. Semper? Well, look, put on a Sonotone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u71	Silence. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u72	In any case, I find your attitude rather disrespectful.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u73	Mr Ruiz de Abulo, Mr. Sémper, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u74	I understand that the issues I am putting on the table are painful to you, but they are issues that often come from your irresponsibility, your lack of judgment and your lack of seriousness in proposing things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u75	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u76	Well, it's hot! Does it smell like election or what? Finally, I would like to calm the debate a little bit and return to the subject, although I must confess that I no longer know very well what the subject is. I don't know if the issue is logistics infrastructure, because if we start talking about it, probably the two groups that have signed a transaction start hitting each other too, and that's what we're missing this morning because, obviously, they don't match at all. I don't know if to talk about branding. Zuri, Ugarte andelea, Nafarroa missing izan zaizu Iparraldea aipatu duzunean... Barkatu, he said in an order; nik Iparralderi buruz Bakarrik said in. Nafarroarekin was gauzak sinatu beharko genituzke. Horrexegatik, guk gure mozioan jarri dugu "in collaboration with the other public institutions", without naming them, because we must work with those that are closest to us and with those that are not. Because Mrs López de Ocariz has given us an absolute reading of what her government did there for 2013, when it drew the Logistics Plan from Spain. He has been forgotten two things: the concrete commitments regarding Jundiz and Lezo, 2013, between 2013 and 2017. That's why you've been forgotten, because what did you do? Nothing, nothing, nothing. Acquired commitments? Zero. The Basque Nationalist Party had to come in the negotiation of the 2017 budgets so that what was already signed would be included in the State's General Budgets so that it could be carried out at once. You see, Mr. Becerra, with whom you sign things. That's why I didn't get into the details, of course. From 2017 to mid-2018, Mr. Rajoy's motion of censure takes place, there is a year and a half to meet commitments as well. Zero. So you've had to read everything the Logistics Plan says, less what it has to do with the concrete commitments you made to this country that you failed to do. And now it turns out that this government, in six months, with a general election in the middle, has to bring here the strategy that you want because there is one that you do not like. In six months. Anyway, that's how it's gonna have to be. Either way, as I tell you, we're gonna hang out. You calm down, continue to oppose as best you know. We, the Government, will continue to rule as we know best. And have no doubt that this country, despite you, is in good hands. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u77	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The representative of the EH Group... He won't say a word. Now that we've ended our discussion, we're going to vote together in the middle of the semi-correction signed by the Podemos and the Basque Popular Groups. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u78	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the Basque Socialists and Eunciators the whole correction of their respective groups. You can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u79	As equality is, we'll vote again. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given at the meeting, 74; supporters, 37; opponents 37; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-17.u80	As equality is, we'll leave it for the next round meeting. I'll read an institutional expression next: "Instructory expression of the International Day of the Woman of Luda Field. "The Great Assembly of the Union, in December 18, 2007, December 62/136 Eve, decided on the 15th of October, a year ago, to celebrate the International Day of the Landa Woman of the Landa Field, to confess women in the land, women in the region of India, to promote the development of agriculture and rural environments, to improve the security of nutriment and the decisive contribution of the field. "The women of the field are more than a third of the population of the world, and 43% of the labour of the planet's agriculture, and moreover they challenge to guarantee the nourishment of our peoples and to secure worthy conditions for our inhabitants, and to protect our natural position and our historical domains. "On this International Day of Rural Women it is important to recognize and highlight the vital role they play in the economic and social sustainability and development of peoples, and their fundamental contribution to sustainable development, food security, the maintenance and updating of traditions and their survival. Counting on women to ensure the rural future is essential. "Just as it is essential to keep raising the voice to continue denouncing the inequalities and lack of opportunities faced by rural women, to make it clear that real equality of opportunity will not be possible until we effectively assume the value and fundamental role they play in the social, economic and cultural progress of our peoples. "It is therefore essential that we continue to bet with determination to promote and develop measures that will boost the leadership of rural women in the social, cultural, economic and political spheres, with the aim of giving them greater decision-making power in households, businesses, society and politics. "A woman in a field of country is an essential axis to stop depopulation and age in the country, and thus it is necessary to offer opportunities to women and their families, and to face important challenges, such as to make an end of the unemployment of women, to destroy the genus of agriculture, to serve under the same conditions, to promote the leadership of women, and to provide the field-guard with more services. "We join in this international day of the country women in the country, in order that the euscal society may possess the question of socially seminary in a country where the social consciousness has been buried with an irresistible purpose to increase the social consciousness of a problem which has been too long." It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one-fifteen in the afternoon.
