ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Punciation of the law of the Parliamentary teams, as to the necessity of establishing a prosecution against corruption. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The Preliminary Presidency of the EH team is the Lady's word, in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u1	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President, for giving us this moment. Some things had to be discussed between the different groups... And I'll start with something. I think what I'm going to do is this atril that doesn't usually do a thing: no one commonly confesss that he has done a thing ill or not well; but I, in this case, am come to say it. This proposal was September when we put it on the table. What we were talking about was that we saw that it was absolutely necessary to create a special prosecutor when they are in corruption cases to investigate it. Besides, when we proposed this to the parliament, it was necessary that this proposal should be made known in the month of September. And yesterday we saw that this prosecution was already founded, that it was on the bulletin and that it was in force. And with this background, because...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u3	... We saw it in the bulletin and we were also told by the Chief Prosecutor of the Basque Country who appeared yesterday in the Committee on Justice; then, we wondered whether it was necessary or not to maintain this non-law proposal, taking into account the date on which we put it and the content of it, which had basically to do with the creation of an anti-corruption prosecutor's office, which was created and appeared in the official bulletin just before the appearance. I have to say – and I also want to say this because I have no problem with doing this here and now – that we did indeed hold a meeting of all the groups in the Committee on Justice and Labour, and we came to the view that, indeed, the same – well, almost certainly – the maintenance of this point did not make much sense because the prosecutor's office was created and that it was also better for us to make an approach to the appearance of that prosecutor later on in the committee. But I also have to say that, said this and raised so, then, taking into account basically what the Chief Prosecutor had proposed to us and the content of some of the amendments that were being proposed, I re-capacityed and there is a Spanish saying that it is wise – in this case of wise people – to correct. And although it is true that, as the case law says and as the law says, this point could have a lack of objective, because it focused basically on the creation of a prosecutor's office that was already there, because I thought that it was also necessary that, if we maintained this point, that the discussion would not be linked to the creation of a figure that was already created, but on what the Prosecutor's Office of the Basque Country had told us, that is, the media and the rest of the questions that it put on the table. That being said, and asking forgiveness and apology from here to all the parliamentary groups who understood the matter in another way, at 15:00 – yes, they understood what we had talked about – we sent an email, in which we said that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u4	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u5	... We were not going to withdraw the point and we were going to put forward a compromise amendment. Transactional amendment that we sent to the groups and that I can fully understand that some have not seen it, that have not had time... But we really tried to do it so that no one would come here today without knowing and not knowing that the point was being kept, why the point and content of that compromise amendment were being kept. If this feels bad to someone, I recognize that it can feel bad, but what I also want to say is that I have tried with time – at three in the afternoon – and with form, sending the amendment, that we can do this debate with those contents. If the debate turns to saying that we have no word, that we have no credibility, that we have remained in one thing, that we have remained in another and that we have done another, because we will take that criticism, but that enters into the parliamentary debate and we will take it, but that does not take away that we have this point, that we have these issues and that this is the position that Euskal Herria Bildu maintains here today. Dicho esto, I mean alone, after finally, on Wednesday, published on the bulletin, that the figure of this prosecution had been introduced in force. The name, Attorney General for economic crimes, and that is good news for us, welcome to us, and it's a thing to notice, if we consider this Chamber at different times, in different places... That surrender has come out. At the same time, I believe that, considering and considering all the matters mentioned by the Fiscal General, what we have seen was that, in his own words, this prosecution will not suffice for the present at certain moments of corruption, or investigations about economic crimes. And what we were told was that he saw that the means were to increase, that there were more people and more instruments needed, to investigate and to carry on these investigations. That's what the prosecutor said, and seeing the real problems of the prosecutor's business, we took care of it, and we saw that we talked about the matter, that is, about the resources that Podemos introduced together. The two things were united and the consequences followed, so that we arranged the transaction together with the Podemos in this sense, and from our point of view to do exactly what the prosecutor said. What did we see yesterday at the Chief Prosecutor's appearance on this issue? He announced the creation of the figure, but he told us very clearly that more means were needed, that more people were needed and that more means were needed to be able to carry out an investigation in conditions, when it comes to such crimes. He suggested that the figure was indeed an important achievement; he also explained that she had had a role to play on this issue, and that more resources were needed. Given what the Chief Prosecutor told us in her appearance and taking into account what Elkarrekin Podemos proposed in her proposal, we understand – and we understood yesterday as well – that what we agreed as a compromise amendment benefits and facilitates and goes in line with the position of the Prosecutor, that is, the provision of all kinds of means and that they are put in place to help this figure. He also discussed the question of another parliamentary, and it was about the conduct of the Administration that the authorities gave them answers when they asked them to give them the answers and in that sense... And he said there were times when he said that the answers were not very clear, seeing that it was the study of his own thing, and that sometimes they didn't carry the papers, or that they were, so to speak, shy. Orduan, hori izan zen beer kexa komisioren aurrean. And how he complained that sometimes the Administration was very jealous of his things, because he was very concerned about not giving all the documentation, or not providing all the documentation, when he understood that everything was being investigated with regard to his actions, because we understand that the proposal we put forward in the compromise amendment, when he urged the other administrations to cooperate in cases of corruption or in cases of investigation of all kinds of economic crimes with the investigation, because... we understand that it is not too much; precisely because it already raised this issue as a problem that had to be solved. That is why our amendment has these points. Basically, the media and the collaboration of the administrations, and a question that will surely seem to some even strange, is that Euskal Herria Bildu proposes that the Ertzaintza has a unit and that it acts in relation to these crimes. And, well, some say: I, then, Euskal Herria Bildu now asks that Ertzaintza do something. Euskal Herria Bildu calls for Ertzaintza to do things within its competence; Euskal Herria Bildu is not alone or per se In other words, it is compatible to suggest that a unit is created or that the Ertzaintza is given the means to act. And it's not incompatible with criticizing when you do something wrong. And that, I think, was also very clear in the last trial. The Fiscal General of the Araba said that he had not had enough resources, and that he would need some other kind of help to find out. And even in other cases, how the inquiries have been made, or what manner of conduct they have taken in their investigations, there have been consequences. Consequences, often, not positive, but negative, have been incapable of transporting to the extreme; and the consequence is, that there is or is not a crime, or that there are trials to be carried forward in a particular case. Therefore, because we see that this also is necessary, we enter that point. Eta Azken Ereflexio bat, éta nik you had to bear her orokorra gauza, eta da korruptioaren inguruan. Guk horrekin love nahi dugu, bathe kontzienteak gara horrekin amaitzek baliabideak behar-beharrezkoak sayla, is horri da gure posemendua. We want Euskal Herria to have no such action. Let no one see as normal or as something that can be done that, because of being in an institution or being in one place or another, you can have access to a series of information or a series of funds, which allow you to act in a concrete way. We believe that that philosophy which, in some places, seems to be as natural as the actions of some people or groups, has to disappear. And that's why we're pushing for measures in what we call democratic regeneration, so that Euskal Herria is a different Euskal Herria, where these actions disappear, and where truly the transparency and performance of all people who have positions of responsibility, or are in companies, is adjusted to their real activity and can never profit from actions that have to do with plugging, corrupting them, diverting funds or creating foreign companies so that they can do different things. Our intention here today is not at all to criticize any party, nor to mess with any party, but simply to show that this is the case, that we want it to be so, that it is one of the bases of action of Euskal Herria Bildu, and that we are very clear that our country has to be different. And that's why we skip the same forms, which are sometimes important, recognizing the mistakes that we have been able to have, flogging ourselves here in front of everyone as we have done to say that this, the other and beyond – some will say, "put the blindfold before others beat you up" – because well, even doing that, we understand that the proposal we make is coherent, makes sense, goes on the path of what was proposed to us by the Prosecutor's Office, goes on the path of continuing to act against corruption, and goes on the path of getting this social scourge to disappear. What is important is not so much the forms – which may be – and I repeat again what I said: what is important is the bottom. And, if in the background we agree, I understand that forms can't cover it. And I hope that's the way it is, and I hope you'll be protected. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u6	Thank you, madam. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u7	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning. For, as we said yesterday, last Tuesday we knew, through the press, that José Manuel Ortiz had been appointed deputy prosecutor of Euskadi in the matter of economic crimes, an appointment made on the proposal of the superior prosecutor of the Basque Country, Carmen Adán, and that yesterday she herself made known to us. It seems that the new prosecutor will also investigate cases of corruption, thus assuming the powers of an anti-corruption prosecutor. Elkarrekin We can welcome this appointment, and we want to give the new prosecutor sufficient time to take up the new post, and we also hope that he will be given the material and human resources necessary for his task, as requested by our amendment, because in reality there are no territories that are more corrupt than others. It is not possible to diagnose the level of corruption through the number of criminal proceedings; it is precisely the lack of means to carry out independent investigations that makes it possible not to detect certain behaviours linked to corruption; that is, it is precisely the existence of an anti-corruption prosecutor's office that would allow more cases to arise. Let us remember some of the cases that show that patronage in Euskadi, for some politicians, is a way of life, and hence the need to have a delegated prosecution against corruption: Txomin Renteria, director of Bakio of the PNV for 16 years, sentenced to 2 years and 6 months in prison for the crimes of falsification of public document and fraud to the Administration in its performance in the failed thalassotherapy project in the municipality of Vizcay. The Court found it proven that it amended the contract of that centre by exempting a company from payment of the City Council's fee of almost half a million euros. Gonzalo Rianzo, then mayor of Muskiz and then councillor for the PNV, was sentenced to 7 years of disqualification, for a prevarication offence related to the irregular award of summer courses. Gabino Martínez de Arenaza and Aitor Santiesteban. The Basque Court of Public Accounts found the responsibility of the two Jeltzal mayors of Alonsotegi in a hole of 4.1 million euros. The defendants are still responsible for the inefficient management of Alonsotegi Eraikiz, an urban society that led relevant works in the municipality, including the award to build a health centre, housing and a parking lot. Mait Garrastazu. The family of the councillor of Urbanism and Works of the PNV of Zarautz, took advantage of a house in ruins to run a new building in a different location; the surface doubled, and is also located in a rural area and of special protection. Or the purines case Margüello case. After 10 years of training, it has been observed by the National Court that one Margüello tried to fill in the deficiencies of Basque public health, managing waiting lists for being a personal friend of the former PNV advisor, Mr Inclán. At the time, until the same councillor, Mr Darpón, the current health councillor, signed a document assuring his honorability. In the end, they dropped a minimum sentence, partly because the Government decided not to enter the trial. The Miguel case. Another case in which the Government has not been involved in the case, a case involving the Araba PNV, with 28 accused. The General Council of the Judiciary has described it as the largest corruption case in Euskadi. The trial began 8 years ago, after a complaint, and today is at the door of a sentence. And like these, many more cases, such as Bidegi or Barrika, and some so bloody, that touch full on two pillars of our state of well-being, education and public health: Jantoki case. Seven catering companies Just like doped OPEs. Thanks to the work of my group and of trade unions such as ESK, it has been demonstrated that there is a client network that favours specific people in the access to the public service, in the categories of hospital medical specialty, with the permissivity of the advisor Darpón, of which we have requested his cessation, and that has preferred to seek alibis and to point out and criminalize the opponents, whistleblowers of the irregularities, until he has found himself with a demolition decree of the Office of the Attorney General, Mrs Carmen Adán, who said yesterday that he appreciates little cooperation from the Administration when it is being investigated. A government which, by the way, does not like us to legislate on matters relating to the protection of citizens who report corruption in the Basque Country, in the light of its criteria. However, Euskadi is clearly at a disadvantage in relation to other communities, such as Catalonia, Madrid, Balearic Islands, Andalusia, Murcia, the Canary Islands and the Valencian Country, which do have one, two or even three anti-corruption prosecutors. That is to say, Euskadi has not had sufficient material and human measures to detect, prosecute and punish cases of corruption and clientelism, and we have doubts whether he will have them from now on with the new appointment. For Elkarrekin Podemos, the fight against corruption and clientelism is the basis of democratic regeneration, political decency and equal opportunities. And to do so, we demand to put all possible material and personal means, in order to identify it, to judge it and to condemn it here in Euskadi as well. We want to demonstrate our commitment to the democratic quality of ensuring that Euskadi has a delegated anti-corruption prosecutor's office by law and under the responsibility of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and not the prosecutor's office of the autonomous community in which it has just been established as a specialized section of article 18. Avoiding the coexistence and relationship between prosecutors and the authorities that are obliged to investigate is a reasonable measure, which prevents the pressures that may exist, in addition to ensuring the unity of criteria in the strategy to combat corruption and clientism. For this reason, my group in the Congress of Deputies registered a bill for the reform of the Statute of the Office of the Prosecutor, with the amendment of article 19.5, in which we requested that the Attorney General of the State ensure the presence of delegations of the Office of the Prosecutor against Corruption and Organized Crime in all autonomous communities. The use of this formula in the new wording responds to two premises: firstly, that the premise of the procurator-delegate of the Public Prosecutor against Corruption and Organized Crime provides the material and personal means necessary to bring to light the cases of corruption that exist throughout the territory of the State and that their implementation does not respond only to the established existence of the high number of procedures, as was the case so far. Secondly, the guarantee of the independence of delegated prosecutors is maintained in the face of possible pressures from local authorities. Therefore, in Elkarrekin We can maintain that the best option for Euskadi to have an Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office is to have an appointment through Article 19 and that it depends on the State Prosecutor's Office, thus ensuring the independence of the delegated prosecutors, in the face of the influence of the local authorities with which they live. The unit of the Office of the Special Prosecutor against Corruption is maintained, thus breaking any possible contiguity between the Office of the Prosecutor and the authorities which are obliged to investigate. It is a reasonable measure, which acts as a safeguard wall in the face of most of the pressures that may exist. That is why, as I said at the outset, we are pleased with the appointment of Mr Ortiz as the prosecutor responsible for economic crimes. And in order to ensure the proper functioning of that prosecutor's office in its anti-corruption work in Euskadi, we have signed a compromise amendment that serves as a starting point and, until the amendment of the Statute takes place, we will continue to work to ensure that, as I have explained, there is a Prosecutor's Office against Corruption and Organized Crime here too, in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. It's your call, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President; members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Indeed, as the proposer told us, the loss of the procedural object is one of the causes for which normally – forgive, for which abnormally – any procedure ends and ends with a resolution by which..., that procedure ends, because the object has already been lost. And that is the conclusion we reached yesterday and, therefore, I understood that this debate was not going to take place. But, of course, this is not a trial, and the debate is therefore open on the table. And we have an even more curious debate, because, if it were a trial it would not be admitted, since you at the last moment have changed us the petitum Questions, on the other hand – which already progress – with which, if we agree, as I understand that all the groups in the House have to be, because they are issues that have also been raised on other occasions, and issues that have been supported by the majority in this House. Common sense issues, which have brought me another comment, in this case a chascarrillo, which is often used a lot in courts or more among tax advisors, which is what says that "man's best friend is not the dog, it is the tax prescription". And in this case, seeing the requests that you have brought to us on the table on the provision of better economic, material and personal means to the Prosecutor's Office, the best provision of economic and material means to the Ertzaintza by the proponent of the EH Bildu group, has brought to my mind this chascarillo that the prescription, indeed, is the best friend of man. Because I'm still surprised that you're defending the performance that very recently in this very rostrum they were criticizing. And you have done so, on many very numerous occasions, both you and your group in this legislature and in previous ones, where you have made unthinkable breaks not to support precisely the creation or the new provision of financial, material and personal resources to the members of the Office of the Attorney General of the State, whether it be the Office of the Prosecutor of the High Court of Justice, whether it be the Office of the Prosecutor of the Provincial Courts, or through the establishment of delegated or specialized prosecution offices for the study of certain areas or the prosecution of certain offences. Of course, I would like to reiterate that we are not against the proper provision of these means to the new prosecutor's office which the Chief Prosecutor of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country announced yesterday and which had been published in the State Official Gazette on the day before. It will reinforce a role that in the Prosecutor's Office, as the spokesman for Elkarrekin Podemos has said, has already been working very well. She has listed a very large list of cases of corruption that we have experienced on this earth, and that is simply based on the fact that prosecutors have done their work for a long time. But, as many prosecutors who have appeared here have pointed out, and, as everyone in this room knows, the performance of these professionals, of this pillar of our judicial system, has not always been an easy performance and an action with sufficient means. That is why today we are going to reiterate that, once it has been created, it is adequately endowed with all the human and material means for its proper functioning, in the same way that we urge the Government, as we have repeatedly been told, to have our police, our autonomous police, the Ertzaintza, with all those means, perhaps through the creation of a specialized unit for the investigation of economic crimes, which are not only the corruption crimes of the public administrations, but are economic crimes that are placed on the table in the courts continuously, committed between private individuals, and that the police are not easily able to carry out their investigations, since they do not have the necessary knowledge, means and personnel. And finally, the third point. It is very sad to have to reiterate that the Basque public administrations must comply with the legal aid, when required from the investigating courts, or any judicial body, or from the Prosecutor's Office, in collaboration, in the facilitation of documentation, in the facilitation of the media, whether it be municipalities, whether it be the deputies – in particular, the deputies, the inspections of taxes –... And I say that it is very sad to reiterate it, because we know that it has not always worked under those conditions, and I do not think it is good that a parliament should be demanding that our administrations comply with the law. But, nevertheless, we are going to subscribe to that point, because we believe, in general, that things have worked well, but there have always been some who have been putting stones on the path of those who are dedicated to the persecution of crimes. That is why we are going to support the compromise that, after so much dizziness, we have been put on the table to debate this morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u10	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u11	Good morning, everyone. Before I enter into the debate of the transformed initiative that had been presented by EH Bildu, I must say to him – I have told Jone; we have had our little Vatican council before we start this session – the astonishment and discomfort that we have from our group for maintaining this non-law proposal. I say this to her, because yesterday, after having attended the appearance of the chief prosecutor of the Basque Country, Mrs Carmen Adán del Río, with whom we were able to directly contrast the appointment of Don José Manuel Ortiz as coordinator prosecutor in economic crimes, which had been published the day before her appearance, that is, Tuesday, and that the prosecutor of the Basque Country also told us that she had promoted this formula of appointment..., because we met all the groups, right?, and we believed that the proposal had lost its raison d'être. Here we have talked about the loss of object that has occurred and so on, and what we have come to is an agreement. It's not that we misunderstand; it's not that it was a consideration... An agreement was reached, and the agreement was that the non-law proposal should be withdrawn, that we would request the appearance of the deputy prosecutor in economic crimes and that, once the specific needs that this deputy prosecutor in economic crimes would put on the table, we would make a non-law proposal to bring it to this plenary. I mean, something that seemed, from that point of view, totally logical. Well, here you are, Mrs Goirizelaia, that an hour after that crushing logic, that unanimous agreement between five groups, disappears. What happened when Mrs. Goirizelaia went down from the third floor to the first floor is something that intrigued me for not too long – it's also true and I have to tell you – because the words that I mentioned, myself in the commission, came to my head in front of the chief prosecutor of the Basque Country, who said to them: "If this remains tomorrow, it will not be because she was interested in what was asked – that is, the appointment of the one who has already been made – but because the interest of others is to talk about her book and not to equip the prosecutor with the means." You have come down here today – which is very smart; you are smarter than Cristina Macazaga – and you have divided here the separation of roles, rather than powers, and you have said: "I already have my own fault in keeping the point after having told you to take it off; the book that Cristina reads it," which has read it from pe to pa, come on; half of the intervention has been thrown away by reading the book, and the other half by talking about the Congress of Deputies. Now, about the specific means of the Basque Country's Economic Crimes Prosecutor's Office, not a word. That is the real interest that was here on this subject. After all, the truth is, I'm not surprised either, because this isn't the first time it's happened here. I will only have to remind you of the discussion and the debate that was held on an eighth point – last point – of a plenary, there for the month of July 2017. At that time others, Mr Lander, Mr Semper, intervened Mr Estarrona; Mr David Latxaga intervened, I believe, and I intervened myself. There the debate took place the same way. The D.A.'s office was the least important thing. The question? The pim pam pum to be able to throw right and left the cases that everyone was interested in. So today we now have a proposal, a compromise amendment, that change of petitum. The request to the Government of Spain for the creation of the Deputy Prosecutor for Economic Crimes in Euskadi; the request for the provision of material and personal resources necessary for the better functioning and effectiveness of the fight against the illicit and misuse of public funds; the implementation of measures providing for a judicial police unit with real, functional, dependence on the Administration of Justice; and a final point in requesting the collaboration of all institutions with the Administration of Justice. As you see, the only novelty of all this that I have told you is that the first point that was still unfulfilled, on Tuesday in the State Official Gazette, was complied with, and has been appointed a prosecutor delegated in economic crimes. As you know, I usually read the memories of the Office of the Prosecutor, and, although I was criticized by Elkarrekin at the time from this rostrum We can do so, because they were tired of us giving lessons, the socialists believe that the reports, the memories, are made to read them, because they are made with the aim of evaluating what has been done and making proposals for improvement by those who are closer to the functioning of the service being evaluated. Therefore, I will allow myself – because I have time and I do not have to read any other book... – I will allow myself, from this rostrum, to read a small part of the memory of the Prosecutor's Office of 2017, the last one that has been presented to us, concerning economic crimes. It's not very long but it's worth reading. He says in the specific section, in the eleventh section of the memoir: "As a relevant novelty, it should be noted that during 2017 the Provincial Prosecutor's Office of Gipuzkoa proceeded to initiate the procedures for the creation of the section of economic crimes, composed of two prosecutors, materializing the same in October. "The technical difficulties in the cases and the need for more specific training on the subject are highlighted by the delegated prosecutors of the three territories. This is a request that is common to the generality of the specialties and that is framed by a general need that the system of training of prosecutors, both initial and continuing, be the competence of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions itself, with a view to increasing their level of autonomy and effectiveness. "It is also seen as a common problem in most cases, regardless of the territory, the huge number of documents that are being incorporated into the causes, many of which are superfluous, but which make it extremely difficult for them to move forward. And finally, for the three delegates, the collaboration with the Tax Agency, the outsourced finances, the Social Security, the General Treasury of Social Security, as well as with the police forces, who have also taken on a greater specialization in the field of these crimes is highlighted." This, and nothing else, is what the Prosecutor's report contains. And you know, as I know, because we participated in the committee, that we had the opportunity, on questions from several Members, to deepen on this issue, on this need that it manifested, which was that of training. And Mrs. Adam's reflection on us was meridianly clear. It says that a real specialization of prosecutors, through a specific continuous training, allows them a greater agility in the understanding and processing of investigative proceedings in these and other cases, which results in the optimization of the actions of the Prosecutor's Office and will improve its results. But, curiously, this which we had the opportunity to read, the opportunity to contrast with it, is not reflected in the proposal that is being brought to this Parliament today. Finally, I do not know whether it will be the media emergencies or other reasons, but I have the feeling, Mrs Goirizelaia, that this is the second time that the real needs of the prosecutors are not the leitmotif.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. What has happened with this first item on today's agenda, as we see, is very rocky, and the truth is that in the end it has morals and indirectly comes to the case that we are discussing. In this life – and in politics as well – it is very important to have a word, to act with seriousness and rigour, to generate confidence, because this, in short, is ethical, and this is a very important value in the underlying issue we are talking about, the attempt to eradicate corruption, if this is really the attempt. Because some, perhaps, this is not what they are trying to do, but rather try to get political results, putting the fan and airing alleged cases of corruption. EH Bilduk Iraqi Iraqi aurkeztutako PNL beat aurrean gaude, gaur eztabaidara ekarri diguzuena. Eta gaia ez da beria Ganbera honetan. Specifically, on the request for the creation of an anti-corruption prosecutor's office in Euskadi, the specific subject of the initial initiative, this House made a clear statement on 28 February 2014 in the Committee on Institutions, Security and Justice, with the votes in favour of the PNV, the Socialist Party, PP and UPyD, and the curiously abstaining group today, EH Bildu. You, Elkarrekin We can, you weren't. We at that time have already made our point and have made a clear position on this issue. And, also, at the plenary session of 29 June 2017, where the issue was discussed, at the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos, and where the amendment of all Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists was approved, with votes in favour of the PNV, PSE and PP. And against, also from EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos. Therefore, perhaps the most recent development in this area was the initiative's proposing group. Which seemed positive to us. As they said in Education, it evolves adequately, at least in this area. It could be added, too, that it is late but evolves. But the issue has been triggered by other paths. It turns out that in an undeniable skill of the Chairman of the Committee on Labour and Justice, as well as the proposer of the initiative, she pointed out for yesterday, 27 February, the appearance of the superior prosecutor of Euskadi, one day before discussing this issue in full. Coincidence! But here the senior prosecutor was more skilled than Mrs Goirizelaia and one day before appearing in the Commission, on Tuesday 26 February, the BOE published the appointment of the autonomous deputy prosecutor of the economic crime specialty in the Autonomous Community, Mr José Manuel Ortiz Márquez, of what Euskal Herria Bildu learned just for us, just minutes before the appearance began. With this, and after the announcement of this appointment by the prosecutor herself at her appearance yesterday, both the requests of the Prosecutor's Office of the Basque Country and those of this Parliament had been met and there was no need to request anything already done and fulfilled. That is why, at the end of the committee, as has been mentioned, the proposer of the initiative brought us together with the speakers of the parliamentary groups in this area, in order to analyse the new situation, and finally informed us of the withdrawal of the GNP. It's not like, almost certainly, he took the point off. No, he told us he was pulling the point. This happened at 1:45 p.m. yesterday afternoon. It must be said that it was as legitimate to withdraw it as to maintain it, but what he told the rest of the groups was to withdraw it. Less than an hour later – it did not give you much time to turn it around, Mrs Goirizelaia – we received an email from the EH Bildu group, in which, from Mrs Goirizelaia, it was communicated: "We will not withdraw the first point of the plenary tomorrow; in the course of the afternoon, we will send you a compromise proposal". Is this serious, Mrs. Goirizelaia? Is this serious, ladies and gentlemen of EH Bildu? It may be so for you; each has a concept. But, of course, to us and to us, it seems to us a true take of hair. And once again it is evident that you are not credible, you are not reliable, and you cannot be trusted. Because, Mrs Goirizelaia, you could have said that you were going to consult with your parliamentary group, which would already comment on your decision. But no, you said that you were withdrawing the initiative, and they were going to ask, as Mrs Castelo commented, for the appearance of the new prosecutor appointed as delegate, to explain their needs, in committee. That being said, logically, the point of substance is that to you the appointment of a deputy prosecutor for economic crimes or an anti-corruption prosecutor gives you exactly the same, as you have shown in the previous votes, to which I have referred, on this issue, in 2014 and 2017. They're going to allow me to paraphrase our colleague Aitor Esteban... And you don't give a name to a D.A. for economic crimes, or a bottling with fresh water. Because to you – and above all to Elkarrekin Podemos – what you were interested in today's debate was to let go of your speech here, to try to tarnish the political ground, and you were not going to give it up. They are interested in airing, over and over, alleged cases of corruption, the same cases. That was really his interest, and more now that electoral periods are approaching. You must think that by repeating it many times more are the assumptions. Well, look, you can take out two more, Hiriko and Epsilon, which, by the way, I don't think Mrs Macazaga mentioned in her speech. And, although you had initially applied logic and common sense by saying that you were withdrawing the initiative for already fulfilled, or deceived us or someone from your group, as it seems to be, you disallowed it and told him that no, that no, that even if what was requested on your initiative was already fulfilled, the important thing was not that, the important thing was to mess up the political scene, to see if you could scratch a few votes. They may scratch votes, I don't doubt it – I'm sorry, I doubt it – but what's clear is that they lose credibility, if they can lose it. I must also say that we accept Mrs Goirizelaia's public apology. We initially, as it could not be otherwise, were going to be consistent with what we voted for and agreed in this House in 2014 and 2017, and hence our total amendment, together with Basque Socialists, which I am not going to read, and since last Tuesday the delegate was appointed, we preferred to withdraw it, because of the objective fact that it has been fulfilled. With regard to the amendment of the whole presented by Elkarrekin Podemos to this initiative, it is almost identical to the GNP presented by this group in 2017, and which was rejected by this House with the nationalist, socialist and popular votes. The only news is that in this case the defender, well, perhaps it would be more appropriate to say the attacker, is not Mr Martínez, but Mrs Macazaga, who is taking pleasure in exercising as an anti-corruption attorney general, once Mr Maneiro's aspiration, and already sees where he has put the Basque society to Mr Maneiro, Mrs Macazaga. I have no intention of repeating to him the arguments given on 29 June 2017 to reject his proposal, which have not changed and, in fact, he has not mentioned them; he was not interested in that. He talked about other autonomous communities where there are anti-corruption prosecutors. Have you wondered why? Will it depend on the PNV? Maybe. Is it not, Mrs Macazaga, that it depends on the State, on the Office of the Attorney General of the State and that, according to the organic statute, article 19, it depends on the number of cases that advise it? And do these matters have nothing to do with those of Catalonia, those of Valencia, those of Andalusia? Mrs Macazaga, I say, has not even spoken about her proposals, and then, with that change of subject, we are presented with a transacted amendment between Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, about an initiative that initially was about the need to create the anti-corruption prosecution, and created the autonomous delegate, as we have said, for the specialty of economic crimes, now they are doing a refrite, basically with the amendment of the Elkarrekin Podemos, and they propose, first... Well, I must say that before Mrs Gorizelaia said that this was what she did, after we met and agreed to withdraw her, according to what the Prosecutor's Office had requested – the Prosecutor's Office had asked for it before we met – and according to the amendment tabled by Elkarrekin Podemos, when the amendments had been tabled in September 2018; therefore, she had had time before and certainly knew exactly what those issues were. And what they are proposing, first of all, is something that was already reflected in the first point of the agreement of 28 February 2014, adopted, as I said, with the abstention of EH Bildu, who is now a proponent, and which was also reflected in our withdrawn amendment. And further, is this how you do it, Mrs. Goirizelaia, Mrs. Macazaga? How is more human and material resources provided? With economic resources, right? They come out, where do they come from? Of the general budgets, those that you usually don't approve. The second point contained in the Elkarrekin amendment We can immediately propose to increase the material and human resources dedicated to Ertzaintza against corruption crimes, as well as to increase the number of agents dedicated to its investigation, with the precise training and qualification. He says this was raised by the senior prosecutor in his appearance. Can you tell me on which page of 2017's memory you're talking about this? Or at what point did the senior prosecutor request it? Mrs. Castelo said: listen, read the memoirs. I have read what the memory of 2015, 2016, 2017 says about Ertzaintza, about the police forces and, by not extending, I will read only what the last memory says, presented yesterday. He says: "... just as he highlights how the police have also taken on a greater specialization in the field of these crimes...". And I ask again, how is this done, Mrs Goirizelaia and Mrs Macazaga? With words? No, no, With economic resources, which come out of the general budgets, those which you have the custom of not approving, and, despite knowing that you are not going to approve them, nor in your partial amendments are consistent with what you then propose, since both of you, year after year, propose to reduce substantially the economic resources for the material and human means dedicated to Ertzaintza. A little coherence. They want and ask for agents with precise training and qualifications, and then propose amendments to substantially reduce the departures of the Arkaute Academy, which is where the officers of the Ertzaintza and local police, among others, are trained and qualified. They want and demand more agents in the fight against corruption, and then jointly propose, Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, the paralysis of the OPE of the XXVII promotion of Ertzaintza. Consistency null, gentlemen of Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu. And finally, it is also reflected in the last paragraph of Elkarrekin Podemos' amendment, and which was already urged also in the amendment of all Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists, adopted on June 19, 2017, and which received the vote against Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, consistency!, propose something that has already been approved and, moreover, with their vote against. That's the coherence. We are drawn to the position and position of the representative of the People's Party, who, well, lends himself to this game and enters this game, I imagine still with the recent wounds. A clear example of this collaboration is the OPE of Osakidetza, of which, from the very beginning, the department has informed the Prosecutor's Office of all the necessary documentation for the investigation. Therefore, they are not consistent with what was proposed, together, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, on June 29, 2017...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u14	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u15	We have proposed the same thing as 2014 and 2017. Do you remember that amendment that you had had sex with each other, totally surrealistic and lacking in rigour, the one that spoke of a public census of convicts, of intervening in EITB news, etc., etc.? Nor has what they put forward today received their own vote in favour when it was dealt with in this House. That is why, for the sake of form and substance, we are going to vote against your compromise amendment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u16	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing on the turn of the answers, the representative of the EH Collectors, madam, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u17	Good morning again. I didn't know there was someone here who shared titles of credibility, who has more ethics or who has less ethics or how things are done... I have one thing that I have very clearly: loyalty... Recognizing mistakes and giving opportunities to everyone, for, recognizing error and being loyal – because we had done one thing and we are going to do another – has to do with the credibility and the actions that each one does. Because, if I have to talk about credibility and keep the word, I can give thousands of examples from all over the world, but there is one that really draws my attention and has a lot to do with the judgment that is being made now: "We will not agree the budgets with 155." I have nothing more to say about that issue... What we are hearing here today leads me to another reflection, which I think is important: the story of things, in the end, is a sum of stories, and in the sum of stories, we have each made our own and each one has drawn conclusions. But the main point is that something is being raised here that I do not understand how we can now say that we are voting against, when Mr Zorrilla told us in his speech that, for example, the first point was adopted before and they voted in favour. So, there he makes me a story of inconsistencies..., he makes me a story of inconsistencies, and it turns out he's telling me that you said yes and now you say that, and he tells me it's because of the forms. Well, if the important thing is the bottom line, which is that we all agree that corruption has to be eliminated, that we have to equip ourselves with means, because equally the forms, recognized the mistakes of each one, assumed the mistakes and raising as I have raised the question, even publicly apologizing here to everyone – something that is not usually done – I think that goes beyond the forms, and I think that it already has to put us to the bottom. And we don't care if there's a prosecutor or there's no prosecutor. We don't care; for if he gave us the same, we wouldn't have made a proposition in these terms. There is also someone who is concerned that there is a prosecutor who acts on this, because it turns out that here we are talking about matters that are going around in everyone's heads, that have been investigated in certain ways and that we have been told that more means are needed, but they are no longer matters that we are talking about, that there seems to be issues of corruption, there are many convictions in these matters. There's a lot of convictions. So, someone who has a prosecutor is also worried about doing this in a different way. And I, at first, didn't intend to do much more interventions, but well... I think what is quite clear is that guk nahi duguna eta zergatik posestu dugun hori. Mrs. Castelo, in the group Euskal Herria Bildu there are neither people sending anyone to do anything nor dark places where they put anyone to force him to change his position or places where one thinks that one doesn't know what and thinks I don't know which... There isn't. I invite you to come. It would be very good for you to come, and we would talk a lot more about it and see if we could reach more agreements on other things where we don't reach agreements. I invite you to come and see that nothing happens, that it's not a dark place, like other places where they do force people to change their minds and make different statements in other places, that you don't know, but that I too have been able to know. There has been no pressure of any kind. I have explained why; I have recognized that what you say was so... But I have explained why and the fundamental question has to do with means, with which, if we want things to be done right, that is necessary, and do not always come to me with the budget cut-off. Let's see, I already know that money gets out of the budget; I'm not an economist, but that's where it gets me, that's where it gets me..., and do the math rather than bad, because I already do it, even though I have to do it sometimes with a calculator and sometimes I'm wrong. But I also know, because you have shown us a very short time ago, that the extended budget can have modifications, it can have incorporations, you can make decrees, you can make complementary laws, I know you have more money... Man, then, don't tell me that, because the budget has been extended, now we ask for things to be done, that's why it takes money and it's not going to be possible to do it. Don't always tell me the same thing! Tell me if, with the money there is, you can make it or you can't make it. And, if you can't do it with the money that is there and you need modification, incorporation or any change that is needed, you bring it here as the others have brought, and we will discuss it, and if we all agree that these means are needed, you too, because you say that you voted for it although not now, because then we will vote for this to be so, because the reality is that we want this to be over. And one last thought. I told them I wasn't going to talk about games or mess with anyone. I explained why, and I did. The rest of the people... each in their interventions do what they want. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u18	Thank you, madam. Together Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u19	Mila esker, andrea president. Well, look, I wasn't going down, 'cause I thought we'd all agree on something like that. But, look, Mr. Zorrilla, I don't know, I've understood you, I don't know, whether to "get angry" or "get angry"; I don't know what you said. But I want to insist that you, who have been doing so well for a long time, have never considered that an anti-corruption prosecutor's office under the anti-corruption prosecutor's office should be a better option than the one that has been raised, and that is what we have come to explain. Because, I see that he misses Mr. Maneiro – he made it clear to me yesterday; he makes it clear to me today – and he says things like that all the documents of the OPE were handed over, because you look at the report that he presents to the Prosecutor's Office, where he asks for documentation that has not been provided to him, so don't tell me that he was provided. No, you had to ask the prosecutor. And it's also that yesterday the prosecutor also complained and mentioned not finding collaboration by the government when she's being investigated. "You were also in that same committee; then, I don't know what we heard differently, Mrs. Castelo. For a moment I thought I was in the En Jake set. My support measures are all written, first here and then in the transaction; I thought I had read them; the letter is small; I could read them, but Mr. Zorrilla has already done so. What is important, I think, is what is going to be approved here today with the EH Bildu and the People's Party groups and that, in any case, what it does is to bring material and humane measures to a prosecutor who has recently been appointed and with whom he has to start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mr Ruiz de Arboulo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u21	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, I thought I was speaking clearly and that in the first speech I had given the reasons why I understood, despite the dislating of "I remove it, I bring it, I change it, we discuss it, we do not debate it and we make a full shorter and then it is longer", the reason why the People's Group supported the initiative, and it was simply because the content seemed to us to be correct. And I thought you had clearly explained it, Mr. Zorrilla. But I am afraid you claim dark ends in our vote for this initiative to come out. And what I have said to you, Mr Zorrilla, is that it was very sad to have to reiterate from this House the legal aid, the need for cooperation between administrations, because it is taken for granted, that, in compliance with the legislation in force, these things are fulfilled. But the reality is, it's not like that. And the reality is that Ertzaintza does not have sufficient material or personal means for the prosecution of certain economic crimes; I have said before, economic crimes between individuals and economic crimes carried out by public administrations. And so it has been demonstrated on many occasions by the Ertzaintza unions, and you know it. And that's why we have to ask you from here to stop that situation. And when it turns out that, claiming the data protection law, a Member refuses to give the tax data of those accused in a corruption procedure, because we find that what is to be done is the fist to the courts and not to collaborate with the Justice; precisely, and that is why, in the third point, we have to reiterate that we have to cooperate with the Administration of Justice. And you've come here to say that that requires money and that that's what we have to do is approve of your budgets. Well, look, I don't know, I don't know if the whole exercise is going to be licking the wounds of having their budgets down in this House and asking us all to support new ones, because that's not the solution either, because we support their budgets. In 2018, the budgets went ahead with the abstention of the People's Group. And we amend issues in the Department of Labour and Justice, which have not been met. Then, the excuse cannot be that to do all these things it takes money; because, when there is money there is sufficient collection, when there are specific budget allocations, they are not fulfilled. Why? Because the government does not like it and because this government has no word, and yesterday the chief prosecutor of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country had to admit that, in fact, the communication office, which had a budget allocation in year 18, has not been created, because the answer to the government is: amortize a prosecutor's seat and devote it to another question. When it turns out that the Office of the Prosecutor does not have sufficient resources and the Government tells him that he still has less to have a communications cabinet, logically, what is not collaborating with the Justice, and what has happened with that money? Has it been used to provide material or technical means to the Prosecutor's Office? No, he has gone to the common fund; he has disappeared, which is what they do in Justice with the budget lines with which an agreement has been reached. I don't want you to have the generals, who don't even meet them. That is why, Mr Zorrilla, we are going to support the amendment proposed today by Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u22	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u23	Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, the truth is that... –well, you're out there entertaining – I don't often need to listen to you, because I don't know whether you speak clearly or not. In the first round, you didn't know very well what you were going to do; but, as you have a skill that is to double-turn back with a flipper, and lately you do it up to a certain style, because quietly, even though you don't have a coma to question a paragraph, because you either vote it or you don't vote it. Well, as you go down and see the debate, well, perfect; here we already knew because we had queues in your office beforehand to enter and discuss this point, what you were going to do... So, well, listen, right, everyone votes what they want. And we also vote no, and we vote for a very simple thing, because we are never going to validate that Parliament's agreements have an expiry date, and that is that this, all of this, all of this, is already approved by this Parliament. And I would like to know what is the concreteness or contribution that we make with this initiative today, when what is said is that it is endowed with the necessary material and human means. Because, Mrs Goirizelaia, I am going to thank you for your apology, because it is also not customary for a Member of Parliament to come down to this rostrum and say that he has made a mistake, that he has made a mistake, that he has also caused not only confusion, but a certain discomfort, and that this has made it impossible for him to work quietly on this matter. But I don't think it's true that they took into account what the chief prosecutor of the Basque Country said yesterday, because the chief prosecutor, if she asked us something very specifically yesterday – and Mr.Uria will be able to corroborate this – is in the juvenile section. He told us that there was a major problem in the children's section, and he told us that there was also a problem in the gender violence section. And about that, in particular, if we really want to help the prosecution, there is nothing here; but, as we have changed the object, that is, if we came to talk about the creation of the figure of the prosecutor of economic crimes and we took advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, because we already have that and we are going to reconsider, we could have really reconsidered what she was asking us for. So, of course, when you come out here and tell me we welcome the new prosecutor, but we do not expect to listen to him to know exactly what resources and needs he tells us he needs, because the truth does not seem very sincere or very accurate to me this proposal. Because, in economic crimes, the only thing we were told was the need for specialized training. They need a specialized training, and they asked us for autonomy in their training, of which there is nothing, that just like another cock would have sung, if in this proposal we had actually brought issues that the Prosecutor's Office was asking and not a proposal to be able to read the book that we have read from Elkarrekin Podemos. Media asked us yesterday by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the tax support unit, it's true, with a communications service. Do you have a communications service in the D.A.? Yeah, how? For the issue of non-amortization of functional places, which does not have to be of prosecutors, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, through an external contract. They do not want outsourced recruitment for the Office of the Prosecutor's Communications Service. That's what he said because he didn't consider it safe; he told us so. He talked about computer applications, the progress they have and told us about the need for the electronic file, because it would greatly facilitate their work. He told us about the problem of territorial dispersion, and he told us that there are problems to cover the attention, when medical discharges occur; that's what the prosecutor told us yesterday to questions from different parliamentarians, and of that, nothing, absolutely nothing... And if there is one thing that also says the memory is that Ertzaintza has been specializing over the years more and more in this type of crime, and it is true. If that is done, it is because resources are allocated to it. And I told the prosecutor yesterday, and I have no problem repeating it here: "Prosecutor, we, normally parliamentary groups, have no difficulty in reaching agreements – as I say – of content." We will come to say that you need to have this medium, this medium and this medium... Now, that's right, when you have to get the money for those media, there's some more difficulty. And more than that, some of those who say we put in means then take the money away from them. And that's what happens; that's a matter of inconsistency. All right, I want it to be done, I want it to be done; but, when the time comes to put the dough to be made, then listen, you do not retract. Moreover, the last time they didn't even vote: since I didn't like the procedure, I get up and I don't vote on this. Well, with that attitude, it is difficult to get these issues too. And the truth... Elkarrekin We can't trust anyone, don't trust if the deputy is a territorial deputy prosecutor, if he's a co-ordinator prosecutor... You don't trust anyone. I already understand you, because, as you are lately inside, you can't even trust your own. But I will tell you one thing, Mrs Macazaga, you, of your amendment, of this amendment, have not given you a single minute in your speech; it brought so much to read that on this in particular, that on the leitmotif
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. As for Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I have not claimed dark ends; I have told him some very clear ends, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo; I have told him about... they are still healing wounds. He says the Ertzaintza has no material or personal means for it. The same is true: you can put forward amendments on this matter... You say this – you have to clarify this – and the Ertzaintza unions; but neither the President of the High Court of Justice, in the last years that he has appeared in this House, nor the Senior Prosecutor nor Justice, nor in his memoirs or in his appearances, say so. Either someone lies or it's not true. You see what the memory says; I've read before what the memory of 2017 said. With regard to Elkarrekin We can, Mrs Macazaga, look, the reference to Mr Maneiro, I did exactly the same as I did yesterday; I wanted to do it in public, the same as I said in private, and I say it to you with affection, as you would say, with affection, because I see where Mr Maneiro is, with that political strategy, with that political strategy that you are taking the witness from. I don't think you've understood me well: I don't know if I haven't explained myself, I don't seem to... He says that the Basque Nationalist Party has never been clearly positioned; we, in 2014 and 2017, in this House, call for the creation of the anti-corruption prosecutor's office. In 2014, with the abstention of those gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u26	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u27	... and in 2017, with the vote against you and them. Therefore, the position is very clear. Yeah, yeah, I used to say "happy." I've said fuck up the political ground. I'll leave it to you to "get angry." And not only donate, you propose donate; not only donate. How? Well, they don't. We are content not to take away what is available for these means, which you are proposing is to take away: to take away material and human resources for Ertzaintza and to take away resources for the training academy. With regard to the presumption of innocence, it is important, because, in that attitude that you are taking, I think it is important to see how you then repair what some do or say. No one proposes mechanisms to compensate for these situations. By the way, something difficult to make up for, and I hope that it will not happen to you, Mrs Macazaga, or to you, Mrs Goirizelaia – which is good, you have the back more covered in this matter – because, Mrs Macazaga, I hope that, when the procedure of the OPE of Osakidetza ends – I do not know where you will be, whether you will be like Mr Maneiro or will continue here – and that everything will be clarified, if necessary, to apologize for the damage caused, damage as I say hardly repairable. In your declared desire to throw out the PNV, not everything goes, Mrs. Macazaga. And when someone criticizes others, they have to have their home clean and shiny, and that's not their case, and that's without management responsibilities. I'm not going to list here the senator living in a VPO and paying the pension, and so on, Mr. Spinar... I'm not going to mention it, because I don't think it's worth it; we all know it, and they're just born as someone says. With regard to Mrs Goirizelaia, man, the titles of credibility and ethics, who distributes those titles of credibility? I don't want to assume that role, much less, because I don't. I believe he will share with me that this is not shared; that is worked day by day, and earned day by day. What I'm telling you is – I know you don't care about it – you've lost a lot to me today. Secondly, I was saying that you did not talk about corruption. Man, as Mrs. Castelo said, you're very alive, and you've seen the mess, you weren't going to get into that garden, because you knew we were going to give it to you in that sense. You knew that Mrs. Macazaga was coming with the book and that she was going to air, put the fan, and start handing over here to right and wrong. So don't be naive, don't hang up. He apologizes to the public. Yes, I think we have said that we accept the public apology and it seems to us to be an act worthy of mention as well. And I could use it to apologize publicly, on behalf of EH Bildu, for the Hiriko and Epsilon cases. There have been very serious accusations in this Chamber of EH Bildu about these cases, and you, as a lawyer, who knows very well what the presumption of innocence is, could also use it to apologize, at another time, because you now have no choice to do so. What we are asking you to do is to become constructive, and to present alternatives for such economic resources to exist, not simply words, which are then not matched or corresponded to the facts. He says someone's worried. Well, I don't know, I don't know who's gonna worry. We, in 2014 and 2017, clearly set out the will for the creation of the anti-corruption prosecutor's office. We're not afraid and we don't have to hide anything. We have political will. Time puts everyone in their place, and you know it very well, and despite the hardness, as I said, of the passage of time for innocent people. Therefore, we are going to vote against it, in terms of form and substance, because what you propose today is not coherent; it is not consistent to put that when you voted against it and abstained, and we do vote for it. They've just used this microphone for air what interests them and make political propaganda – legitimate but everyone will appreciate it –, trying to get a handful of votes. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u28	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; 70; supporters 35; opponents 35; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u29	As equality is, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 36; the opponents 35; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u30	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, concerning the conversion of Naval fleet into public enterprise. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Becerra, representing the Podemos group together, has the word to present and defend the initiative. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. In October last year, a motion was tabled by our group, which sought a minimum agreement on the future of La Naval. That minimum agreement, our group defined it as a necessary but insufficient agreement. It was an institutional agreement necessary, to give the support and momentum that needed...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u32	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u33	... the performance in favor of the rescue of La Naval. Five months later, we have to say that this agreement has failed. And parliamentary agreements, as well as parliamentary agreements, are to be implemented. Not only has it failed, but, basically, in these five months, what has been shown is that the Basque Government has never intended to do so. And, in fact, what he has done is to take steps back, such as the famous report not to enter the public ownership of La Naval or the abandonment of the dialogue table he had with the central government and with the staff. In the motion mentioned in October there were five petitions, and I shall mention: the second was to avoid closing, that the immediate investment was to be completed; the third was to form a table between governments, together with workers, to examine every possibility, to examine every possibility, to examine every possible possibility, to make a report, in the fourth place, in order to study and protect and protect the administration from buying and buying the active Naval operations, and the fifth and last of the government, in order to find a private investor. Bost eskaera, age beat ez da bete oraindik. Bost hilabete passes say, age atzerapausoak besterik ez will say eman. Steps back. The Basque Government has risen from the table with the staff on more than one occasion; it has not been able to sit seriously with the Ministry; it has cancelled one of the meetings, and on another it has not even sent anyone of relevance to the department. And, above all, it has produced a report, aimed at not acquiring the assets of La Naval, as stated in the motion of October, an incomplete report, with legal errors, with value judgments, without legal references to the jurisprudence or official positions of the European Union. The steps behind have defined the attitude of this Basque Government. A passive attitude waiting for closure; an alarming and bloody lack of commitment, as it knows the problem of La Naval since 2014, and an absence of leadership, with a missing lehendakari – and I don't mean today; I mean the last year and a half. They've let the time go wrong. Prior to the competition, they said that they needed to prepare for the competition; during the competition, it was said that they could not intervene while the competition was running; after the competition, the liquidation was alleged, and after the liquidation, the dismissals and the relocation of the staff were expected. They have been playing to confuse citizens, confusing public aid with public participation, confusing the existence or non-existence of private investors, with those who were but did not appear, like Del Dago; with those who were but were told to me, personally to counsel, who were but I did not see them; with those who exist but do not exist. And, in fact, everything possible, any hypothetical private investor what is waiting for, today, is also what the Basque Government is looking for: to have clean land and facilities of dust and straw, without anyone on the staff, so that it can do the business it wants the most. And the citizens, whom they have tried to confuse, are amazed at this spectacle, in which a government of a country is giving up saving one of its main companies in difficulty. This attitude of the Basque Government is causing enormous disappointment, and I believe that not only in our group. In the left margin and in Sestao, this disappointment is historic, only comparable to the closure of Altos Hornos de Bizkaia and Babcock Wilcox. Historical, because, if the Naval closes, it's because they didn't know or wanted to defend it. And this historical disappointment is due to the fact that there is also a historical debt to the Left Margin, because the Left Margin has given everything for Bizkaia and for Euskadi: its wealth, its energies, its health, and even the lives of many workers. I said this in December in an inquiry to the lehendakari: Sestao is now the Basque Detroit; Sestao has lost, in 40 years, a third of its population; Sestao has half the per capita income that Getxo, and Sestao has a life expectancy of one and a half years less than the rest of Euskadi. And right now, Sestao and the Left Margin are only representing the staff, only the staff acts in favor of the dignity of a region and of an entire people. And never were so few, because they fight for the root and for the future of the shipyard, but they also fight for the jobs of their auxiliary industry. They have gone to Europe; they have sat down with the governments; they have commissioned the reports that the Basque Government has not commissioned; they have done everything they have to do, and now they are told to the staff that they are the problem, that they are the problem. You want a ship yard with no loads. What's the problem with the template... No, ladies and gentlemen. The template right now is the raison d'être of the shipyard. The template is now the solution; it is the example in which the Basque Government should be looked at, an example of commitment to its company, an example of an active role in finding solutions, an example of social leadership and an example of responsibility. And that is the responsibility that the Basque Government would have to shoulder as well and that we would have to shoulder all the political groups in this House. Of course, Elkarrekin We can, in our work of opposition, critical but constructive, we have not stopped in this year and a half to make feasible, realistic and technically contrasted proposals, each and every one of them. And the non-legislative proposal that we bring to this House today is another. It is a new proposal to concretely and update the content of the motion that we unanimously approved in October 2018, to update and reinforce the institutional commitment to La Naval and against the steps that the Basque Government has taken in the past five months. In December, I requested the President's responsibility, so as not to let him close La Naval and challenge the responsibility, that is to be the means, the means, the means, and the means, which is the policy of industry, which must be the auto-gourage. Our industrial policy, our self-government, only serves us if it is to fight for our people, if it is to save our regions, if it is to defend our industry. If it's not for that, what good is it for us, if not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u34	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. [[Applause]] Passing to the teams who are running the corrections, the Basque Popular Group, Mr. Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. We, unlike Mr Becerra, do believe that the agreement of October last year is in force, that we unanimously approve all the groups, and that is why our amendment says that we ratify that agreement. And we, on this subject, could do a pretty easy demagogy, because we are neither in the Basque Government nor in the Government of Spain. But we have always said here and we have always stated that the important thing was to maintain, not so much the jobs of La Naval that were guaranteed, because we have already taken care to ensure and extend his return to Navantia after 10 years, but the whole auxiliary sector, and that, therefore, the primary purpose that this Government had to have was to maintain the shipping activity in Sestao and to support the entire auxiliary company and that it could grow. And so, in that unanimous agreement, we all started from the basis that we had to articulate an alternative, create a new society, with new partners, public-private, that would take charge of that management. And today you, Mr Becerra, are not asking us that. You're raising a little bit more or less that the Naval has to go on, which is... Let's see, with the 160 million euros you must not buy it anyone: either it is settled, so that something new can be articulated there or there will be nothing, and the liquidation is the liquidation of assets and liabilities of the society, of the current society, and, until that is done and the debt remains to zero, there will be nothing viable. And I already forgot about Europe and not Europe, but we all knew that two months ago, three months ago, when we signed that unanimous transactional. What are you proposing to us here? That, even if nothing is done, the Basque Government will keep the staff here. The agreements that exist with the staff are that they be re-located in Navantia. If, in addition, you get to articulate something new, maybe that template can go back or some of that template can go back to work there. It will have to be seen by those who articulate that, that we are in charge of the Basque Government, but, of course, is that their own proposal is contradictory, because, on the one hand, they tell us that we must maintain the Naval and, on the other hand, they are proposing that a new public or public-private enterprise be created. Listen, let's see, this is incompatible, and I don't care if it has to be public alone or private, but it's incompatible: either it's liquidated and it's liquidated or it's not possible to create a new one; it doesn't matter to me, public, private or public-private. And as long as we are not able to understand this, little real viability is being raised here, from this rostrum, for the Left Margin, for Sestao and for the naval or the naval activity, in this case. Perhaps if we leave ourselves with a little demagogy, because this is what we did two months ago, three months ago, in this Parliament, and what was proposed there is still in force. Some people will like some of the points more, than if the Basque Government had to make a report to see if in Europe we were allowed to do one way or another; we all have been in Europe, in short, since 1986 we are in Europe, and we all know how Europe works and we all know the sanctions that Europe has imposed on this autonomous community for failing to comply on more than one occasion with European legislation. We already know how it works: what you can do, what you can't do, and even other new things that have worked out more or less well. That is why we said that the Basque Government had the capacity to articulate an alternative to the situation it was in, but it is clear – and it is recognised by you, Mr Becerra, by Bildu and by the Socialist Party and by the Basque Nationalist Party – that it demands to liquidate a society and to leave it without debt. What a partner he's going to... When you say "we have to assume our responsibility"; I am not prepared for the Basques to assume 150 million or 160 million euros of other people's debt. Why? Why do we have to take that debt to the banks? Why do we have to pay banks a company debt? I refuse, I refuse that, and the only formula is to liquidate it, and, with the remaining assets, you can articulate a new project, a new company, that takes charge of that activity, and that, obviously, as much as you like the public, or there is an entrepreneur who brings boats to make or there will never be anything. That is why we raised from the outset that it had to be public-private. Why? To assure the private that the Administration is behind and supports this project. Because, moreover, the Administration is interested, because the Administration, even if it has no profits or few profits, benefits from the tax collection that takes place there, not only by VAT and by the IRPF, but also by all those induced throughout the area. And I repeat: we do not believe that anything has changed in the last two months. The company remains unliquidated, so long as it is not liquidated, solutions can be adopted later. What do you want me to say? I will limit myself, for the time being, to telling you what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u36	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u37	Good morning, everyone. Well, yeah, we'll talk about the Naval again. It will seem to some too prematurely. Gardel sang that "twenty years is nothing." For sometimes, twenty years is nothing, and sometimes, four months is a lot, and the four months since the last debate we had, since the agreement we reached, have been a lot, because, in those four months, what should not have happened has happened, and what should have happened has not happened. After all, what we're asking for today is not a new arrangement around La Naval, which we're going to order today through the middle-way introduced by the Podemos and the Basque People together, that's the arrangement, by keeping that agreement, by keeping it and carrying it forward, because we believe that when political agreement is taken up in this Chamber, it's supposed to be a trail of paths and then to be executed after the journey. We think the agreements are a lever, a instrument to act in reality and change things. We think it's a bargain to make, and the agreements are no excuse to stop doing anything. And that is, unfortunately, the arrangement which we obtained in October from the government, that this political agreement has been accepted as an excuse not to do anything but what is agreed on and which is not a plan planned before it. What we ask to-day is to do, to act, to activate, and to carry on this agreement. On November 10, we said that La Naval is a strategic vessel, and that it was essential to guarantee the future on the left. And there's some consistency between that sentence... We say big words here, that it's a strategic thing, that the future on the left goes through the maintenance of La Naval, when we throw out such fat words, we give ourselves an arrangement with those adjectives we mention to be proportional to our activities. And, in my opinion, it was not at all at the height of what I said. And I'll begin from the Julian report, and it's not because the government's position is very weak, because it's a very poor report that has specifically introduced a report against what we've just requested, but this report was the key for the future to generating the entire strategy that was to be developed, and without reports, we'll hardly have the effective strategy to articulate it. This House asked the Basque Government for a legal report to support the purchase of assets. That report has not been submitted. We asked him to support it from a legal point of view, to also make an economic and industrial study, and there is the literality of the agreement. And that report has not been drawn up by the Basque Government, but it has been intended to give us, literally, a cat for hare. A report that dismantles the possibility of providing aid, rather than a report that talks about the possibility of acquiring assets, justifying and supporting it and also emphasizing the legal and economic aspects. And this report was the key to the whole road map to be followed later, because we understand that this is a complex problem from all points of view and that it had to have a good legal basis, to avoid problems in the future and also had to address the economic and industrial issue. Y, si no tenemos eso, aentonces, qué vamos a hacer? -Cómo vamos a arcticular las soluciones que se pedín que arculara, si no tenemos unforme que nos dé regaldo? "Y se nos presenta un informe desatado, rutio, ho exclusivamente para cubriir el expedente y justicitur las predeterminedas del Gobierno." Hence, we say that the Government is a breach of agreement, and has voluntarily violated it, because it had no will to do so, because the Government has from the beginning a plan and only one plan, and it is the plan of letting the market perform its normal activity without any public interference, with all the other petitions which happened with the report, with all the other requests made in the October treaty. Eta, lehen, gauza batzuk aipatu will say. The famous multi-stakeholder table has, in fact, been a kind of permanent persecution of the staff to the different institutions in order to get them to be heard, also in a disparate way and sometimes with a low-profile dialogue, which seemed more destined to make the time spent by the workers than to seek, together, a solution. Where is the alternative to be articulated by the Basque Government? Where is he? We, both in public and in private, are aware not that something has been achieved, but that it is being attempted. We just don't have any hint that he's trying. And he said that four months is a lot, not just because the agreement is not being fulfilled, but because, as we have said more than once from this very rostrum, we are in a counterclockwise situation. And losing four months badly, as they have been lost, seems to us to be a blow to this House, to the signing groups of the agreement and, in particular, to the staff and society of the Left Margin. After summer, the boss's boss of what's going on in La Naval is crazy, and we're not going to charge you with the bad situation of La Naval, because it's not his. We know the management was poor, but the government had to take the wheel from summer, and he wouldn't take it. He asked us for time and we gave him time. But as we have no time now, we have entered the age of experience without any doubt. The only intervention, the only plan that the Government seems to have and that is following the rajatabla is to let the market forces act freely, and, in the meantime, to entertain all of us with so-called agreements, with so-called talks and with so-called gaitas, because, in reality, it has no intention of doing anything but sitting down and waiting for an investor to come. Because, as they have told the staff, the government does not make boats. The Government was waiting for an investor to arrive and, in that case, it would be willing to provide aid. That is not what was agreed here in this House, with the unanimous support of all groups. What the Government was asked to do is to lead the process, articulate a solution, and the Government is systematically refusing to articulate that solution. I imagine that when the workers tomorrow or Monday go to the street, someone from the Basque Government, perhaps the counselor, tells them that already famous or sadly famous phrase of Rodrigo Rato: "It is the market, friends". Your company is doomed to die because it is not profitable, and we could talk about profitability, because it is not a company that is not profitable. We have spoken, and I believe we have demonstrated, that the issue was not profitability or that this company did not have a future in a competitive market, but was the victim of poor management. That is why we are talking about the need to rethink and relaunch it, but the Government seems to understand that there are companies that have to die because they are not profitable or because they do not want to buy them anyone, and they simply wash their hands. Oh, gurekin ez kontatzeko horretarako. Guk esaten dugu La Navalek etorkizuna daukala, Ezkerraldeak La Naval behar duela, éta La Naval errentagarria izan daitekeela, which is not going to be a bottomless sack. And, Mr Damborenea, we are not talking about 150 million and we are not talking about debt. You read the transactional, and there it is clearly read "to attend the liquidation phase with a public-private enterprise", an issue that meets the requirements of European law. Because, not thanks to the government, which has not, but thanks to the workers, we do have a report from a specialized firm, which tells us that this can be done. And it has had to be thanks to the workers, like the workers who have had to go to Europe to ask the Commission's senior officials to see if there was a problem. Where are the European Commission's responses? You say – and probably later tell us – that we already know how Europe works... No, I don't know. I want you to explain it to me and put it in writing what I can do and what I can't do. They have not done so because the Basque Government has not been deigned to address the European Commission formally, because it had a predetermined role to play, which was not to get wet in La Naval. That's why I think it's time to give a turning point. There are headlines like this Saturday, which says, "The Naval lives its last hours." I, even though the subject is dramatic, want to introduce a small note of humor, as I always do. This from the last few hours reminds me of that phrase by Mark Twain, who said: the rumors about my death have been slightly exaggerated. For I believe that the rumors about the disappearance of La Naval and the news about the disappearance of La Naval are exaggerated, because La Naval has a future, because La Naval can have a future, if it articulates the public-private intervention that this House requested and that today we ask that it materialize. We do not want to remain in a declaratory agreement, but we want those agreements to be a genuine road map to save the shipyard. And what we're asking is to do that report and ask for that report from the experts. It is that this government, and I do not resist repeating what I said at Mrs Tapia's appearance, when she tried to explain – quite badly, by the way – or justify the report that her government had made. I put it there that this government has spent 77,000 euros in the advertising campaign Doggy Etorri! "WelcomeDogs!" so that people come here with their holiday dogs. 77,000 euros of fleece and is not able to hire the best consultancy, the best consulting in Europe to make a report and tell you how to intervene in La Naval and make a feasibility plan? And must it be the workers, with their scarce resources, who go to Europe, who are in charge of the work? The government doesn't want to. Because you don't want the report to tell you that you can do what you don't want to do. That is why I say that, from this moment on, EH Bildu stands on the side of the demand and fails to comply with the agreement, and demands that the Government develop and comply with that agreement. We say no to the ERE, and we don't say that the staff continues to work in La Naval; we say that they continue to work in Euskadi and that they are not sentenced to a labour exile, which at those ages is a real emotional, social and family fracture. We say you buy the assets, yes, but in the liquidation phase with a public-private company – which is proven to be possible – and we say that that company is believed, as Parliament has already asked at the time. I won't be long, but I'd like to finish it with a song from Su Ta Gar, because I think it's connected to the subject. We've been through the factory closures for a long time on the left, and often those old buildings look like giant monsters, dead monsters. And that's called Su Ta Gar's song, dead monsters. "In the air the withered glands are still upright in the grey sky, but the cold remains of the past are not shining. Dead monsters. This calamity is not a Bible, as there is nothing written, let us make strength for tears! "I don't know. Let's make the effort to get La Naval forward. Let's force it! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u38	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u39	Good morning, again. Mr Casanova, I am not in a coma of humor in this matter; I have to tell you with complete sincerity. You know – you know, Mr Becerra, Mr Casanova – that this Parliament has always spoken unanimously in support of the Sestao Naval. I'm not going to remind you all – you didn't want to –; I'll only mention the last time: just four months ago. But, today, this trajectory is going to break, the eagerness of the protagonists that some actors have, the electoral futures that someone else is dreaming of, so, they make the demagogy of speech, the false hopes, the manipulation of information..., all this will make this panel that I have here behind, when the sense of vote is put, not appear monocolor, not be green. The green of hope. No, that's not what's gonna happen. And it will not be us socialists who have to explain. It will be you who will have to do it. We know that the solution to La Naval will not be given from this rostrum, however applauded their interventions. The solution to the Margen Izquierda, the solution to the shipyard of La Naval, the solution to its workers, to those of the auxiliary company, will come from the persistence in the efforts, in the meetings, in the conversations, which, without so much cash, without so much media focus and without so much light, we have carried out others for quite a long time. What we are not going to endorse is that Parliament's agreements are due to expire. Mr. Casanova has experience with this, because then we're going to talk about collective bargaining again, and I'm going to have to repeat it – I've already had to say it for prosecution issues. Well, anyway, that's what there is, things come back over and over again... If we've agreed, why do we have to resuscitate?; well, out of some need, which, of course, is not the future of La Naval. And in that, gentlemen, you won't have our complicity. They will not have the complicity of the socialists for this devaluation. Mr Becerra, you were asked not by the parliamentary groups – Mr Antón Damborenea has finished today telling you not to demagogy – but by the Government itself, which, as your public representative, must not distort or contribute to the ceremony of confusion. And I must tell you that, frankly, after your intervention in the last Committee on Infrastructure and Economic Development, with regard to the hairs, commas and threads of that report, and your intervention here today, I begin to doubt that your intentions on this subject, after the manoeuvring to which you are subjecting the suffering and anguish of the workers, their families and our region, are not very sincere. I don't know who wants to pass the story because I don't know what it is; here you stood up, the counselor and you, who was going to pass the story on this subject. What is clear to us Socialists is that we are not going to get entangled in those veins and tell you what you want to entangle us in. We are not going to entertain ourselves for a second, Mr Becerra, you are not going to have a second to look for points in any report, even if I take out the one I have stored there and you read it completely; I am not going to dedicate a second to it. I will not make comparisons of statements, since this issue has been in the press. I'm not going to remind you of the origin of "We publish 100%"... That no, Mr Becerra, not a second of my effort is going to go to that, and for a very basic reason, but very basic and very simple, and that is that all that does not help the solution of the company of La Naval, does not help Sestao, does not help the region of the Left Margin, for nothing. The socialists are only going to follow, with less light, that yes – if no applause, too – but much more discreetly, looking for the complicitys necessary to achieve viable, solid, realistic alternatives for the Naval, for Sestao and for the Left Margin, which, of course, are not going to be achieved, no matter how much you wave this rostrum. It is very easy, very easy, and very simple and very cheap, very cheap, to come out here to this rostrum and make a lively speech in defense of everything – in this case, today, from La Naval – to come up with proposals, that I would already like to be able to sit down and you will explain to me how we do some of the ones here that put me, right?, but I guarantee you that this is what you are doing here, and what Mr. Casanova is helping you from EH Bildu, is not going to give a solution to La Naval, and much less to our region. I'm not interested in your needs, but how different is the speech you have from this rostrum and when we're out of this rostrum, and what anger it gives me. And I'm so angry! I would have liked, Mr Becerra, to have finished my speech today with the same words I used last October, which I will remind you of. Then I said to them: "We are in time of discount – it is true – but as true as there is a sincere and ironic will of all the agents involved, of the workers, of the parties, of the institutions and of the governments, to row all in the same direction, to prevent the closure of La Naval. "The Socialists," I said and ended by saying, "we join forces today, together with the rest of the groups in this House, to urge the Basque Government to redouble its efforts to guarantee the future of this company, from La Naval, from Sestao – from my region. We know that they are concerned and we recognize that they are busy giving them a solution, but we asked them, we asked them, to participate, from the lawfulness, in La Naval, to participate with a guarantee of continuity and future for our company." But, Mr Becerra, thanks to you, today I will not be able to finish my speech like this, and I point that out to you in your possession.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u41	Good morning, ladies, chief of departments, members of the legislature. In his fight for being the left of this country –from the same if the Basque left, the half-boarder or the left-hand side – they are able to take steps to bomb them the next day after reaching agreements. The same thing happened last week, which, after one year of the agreement on government participation in certain country-based tractor companies, returned to the matter, raised the tone and demands, so that what had been an agreement would burst out of the air. This time, just four months later, they come to break the unanimity achieved on 22 October. That agreement, which involved a pact work between parliamentary groups and which dealt with what, by the way, the unions in La Naval wanted, which was nothing but unanimity, come today to upset him. The initial proposal of Elkarrekin We can reiterate, at the beginning of each sentence, what we unanimously subscribe to in October, to then elongate it, elevate it and subjectively interpret what was approved to urge the Government to new tasks. Thus, when we said that all means should be made available to the Government, we can clarify that all assets of La Naval (land, construction and facilities, no more or less) must be acquired. When we approved in October to urge the Government to articulate, together with the private sector, an alternative to ensure the viability of the company, Elkarrekin Podemos diverges by urging, in the absence of a private investor of reference, to set up a public company for the management of the productive activity of La Naval. Take it now! And the same thing that the report, which has already been done, calls for, adds that the Government is working with the competition administration to develop the viability plan for launching the La Naval activity. Oh, my God! A viability plan, before knowing who can be the private investor, that will surely be delighted in your day to invest a pasta in a plan made by others. And last but not least, I'd like to ask you for a new one. Although I am also going to tell you, even having all that huge budget, legally little could be done, and you know it, except, perhaps, to spend a paston to then commission another study to a multinational consultant, to tell us what we already know. Conclusion: today I agree, and tomorrow I'll raise the bar to see if I catch them lost. Or, today pact, but at night I realize that I did it with the PNV, and the next morning, regret. In any case, ideological liquidity, little solid idea I see here. And then there is EH Bildu's amendment, which is more committed, that is, but in which it is not understood when it states that no instances have been fulfilled that were made to the Government in that agreement. The report entrusted to the Government, concerning the possibility that the Government itself would take over the assets of La Naval, exists; among other things, because they have already criticized it, even Podemos has ironized in the Commission by accusing the person who has done so of being a certain Pérez. They found that it had been done by an official, with more senior experts' offices abroad. I heard it, I looked at the people who were there, and when I saw that no one felt ashamed, I was even more worried, if it fits. If a job is carried out abroad, they blame staff members for not being tasked, and if staff members are tasked, they find it fatal not to be paid to an external consultant. They're pure opposition. Not ideological; I'd like you to have ideas. No, no. They are the opposition of the Paris office of weights and measures; they are opposed for opposing, without turning back. You can say that a report has not been commissioned that says what Bildu and Podemos, together or apart – that I don't know – want to hear, but never that has not been done. The only possibility of agreement on this subject – I have the feeling – is that at the time of requesting the report, they ask us for the conclusions they would like to read, and so we can certainly move forward. The same amendment by EH Bildu appeals to two other parts of the unanimous resolution, which they say have not been made, which are: to make all means available to them, including direct economic investment, and to articulate with the private sector an alternative for viability. That is why we have to go back to the report itself, which they say is not done, although they have read it and have criticized it, which points out, with force, that a company in crisis is not allowed aid and that any public capital can only be entered with a viability plan and private participation. Even, and you also know that, as early as May 2004, the Commission considered aid to shipyards to be illegal; it had to be returned. What about what I end up with? With SEPI's bankruptcy. And what did SEPI's bankruptcy entail? That, in order to replicate SEPI itself, the non-military shipyards had to be sold to the private sector. That is to say, the Naval itself, its origin, is the return of fraudulent aid. If progress on some issues has not yet been made, it is because the necessary conditions have not occurred. And not because the government is not trying, that you know that it is putting all the means at its disposal to avoid the permanent closure of La Naval and trying to articulate, together with the private sector, that alternative that we ask of you. Counselor Arantxa Tapia commented in this House that she has contacts with private interests to try to replicate the Naval, they have even read and heard favorable positions of other Basque public administrations. But you know that, as long as the liquidation of the company is not solved, Mr Damborenea has already told you, the steps to resume its activity are blocked. And, therefore, if that instance has not been completed, it is not by the Government, but because the ERE is being delayed, to which the threat of judicialization adds; surely, the deepening of the process. To say that things are not fulfilled is postureum "of the unshut", in the face of the proactivity of the other competitive left. You're under control. All you have to do is read the transaction, when you know that the possible has been done and the rest is being worked on, not being realized by the lack of the private investor at the moment, which is an essential element, and you know it. But, always, Mr Casanova, your amendment is better; it was better than the original proposal, which is only pre-electoral mitinerism, although I have already seen that in the transaction the solidity of your ideas is also not clear, because I have the feeling that it has yielded much to other areas. You know that the government cannot do it with La Naval, nor can it reflect it with the only public resources, that it needs a private investor and the viability plan, that logically should lead the private investor and you know that the government is trying to do so. Another thing is that it has not been successful so far. But it is also true, I say again, that the judicial situation and the threat of extending it for the future does not facilitate things, as it generates uncertainty and legal uncertainty. I think that we are satisfied with the matter, that what can be done is more than clear and that only with the appearance of a private investor will we be able to move forward, because they know – and it would be unfair to convey doubts – that the will of the Basque public administrations is very clear, and that is to accompany, to seek and convince private investors... Just implying that the Government is not trying to do so, from my point of view, would be in the area of defamation. They can continue to repeat the debate and raise the demand; they can break the consensus achieved, but with that attitude they will not succeed in solving the problem, except to try to transfer to the workers the falsehood that you are the ones who really care about the issue, when, I can assure you, who really is working to find viable and legal solutions, which are not imaginative and fictitious, it is the Basque Government, without hawks, without rallies, without noise, how things should be done. With La Naval and any other company in your situation. Yours, the senseless noise, without logic, darken by simulating that the solution is possible with the sole will and the only public money, when you know it is not, and you know it. If not, if this is the most urgent and most relevant to what Euskadi is facing, I have heard it in this House; if this is the platinum and iridium shipyard and the others make txalupas Because the Basque Nationalist government and group do not differentiate between companies, when it comes to saving them, recycling them or looking for alternatives. While every day you theorize more from subjectivity, dedicating many more means and chrispation to La Naval than to any other company in your situation, that there are. That said, in their fight to lead the port side of this country, they decide to break consensus, the rationality of seeking solutions among all and equanimity in the face of similar situations in different Basque companies. It may be afraid to agree with the PNV, which you will know, electoralism in the face of the dates we find ourselves, that they are worth using this problem, or a mixture; in any case, an attitude out of common sense. And as Marlene Dietrich said: "Imagination exaggerates; reason underestimates, and common sense moderates." Well, you know, common sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u42	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In answer time, together Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u43	It seems a lie, Mr Damborenea, that with the experience you have and the knowledge on economic issues, we now come to try to confuse assets and liabilities. When a company is in liquidation, it goes to liquidation to acquire the assets, not the liabilities. The liabilities, they stay in liquidation. So, nobody's gonna get 160 million euros in debt, and you know it. That confusion I would like it not to be deliberate, because deliberate is what the Government has done so far with that sort of thing, and you cannot fall into it. So, if we're talking about demagogy, let's try to apply some common sense to that, because you in the last committee said you didn't want to see Tapia become the CEO of La Naval. He said... What is it, that you can have Piqué, Soria or Morenes as the CEO of Navantia? Yeah, right? Why? Because one is a military naval industry, and another is a civilian naval industry? Because one is Spanish industry, and another is Basque industry? You signed an agreement in October, saying that the Basque Government was urged to put all available means at its disposal, including direct economic investment. Being CEO is having direct economic investment. You, Mr Tellería, tell us that the Basque Government has tried everything it had to do and that, in some way, it has done everything that could be done and that Europe made it clear to us what the playing field was. Look, for a year and a half, we asked the Basque Government to give us the letter of reply they gave to the European Commission when it asked, was interested, about the aid. It has taken both the Government and the Ministry a year and a half to give us that letter. Well, we finally have it, January 28th. The Ministry gives us the letter that the Ambassador of the Permanent Representation of Spain to the European Union sent to Brussels on 19 October 2017, that is, less than a month after the European Commission asked us for explanations. And it says, textually: "It is reported, first of all, that the Ministry of Economy, Industry and Competitiveness has not agreed nor is there any provision on the part of the latter or any other body that we have knowledge of, financial measures, through public funds or under public control, of any other kind in favour of this company. "Secondly, the Basque Government's reply annex-report confirms the absence of aid granted by the regional authorities. The Basque Government states that the Northern Naval Constructions company has not requested any assistance from the General Administration of the Basque Country, and it has not adopted any financial measures." A year and a half ago both the Ministry and the Basque Government knew that there was no public aid and they had replied to the European Commission that there was no public aid, and for a year and a half they have hidden it from the opposition, this House and society. And they've been playing with the famous aids up and down, up and down. And I said – and I was wrong in October – that the attitude of the Basque Government was doubtful, inconsistent, weak and changing. It is not true, the road map is clear: it is to get rid of the template to award the assets to the best bidder. It is to do nothing until this shipyard dies of asphyxiation and starvation. And that's why they need time, that's why they ask for time, because what they want is time for this to end as they already have clear it has to end. But they won't count on us. Our attitude, Mrs Castelo, has been consistent, outside and inside, and we have been year and a half making proposals on the same line all of them. You say that they are discreet; your silence, Mrs Castelo, the silence of the socialists on this issue is arroncissor, arroncissor. You have lost the opportunity, in this same debate and in previous ones, to highlight the disparate and ugly things that the Basque Government has done to the Government of Spain on this issue, such as leaving the minister with the staff, sending a high position of fifth or sixth escalator to a minister of Spain. And you, before that, shut up and grant. And I would like to have the ability to return in time or bring in time people like Paul Iglesias or Facundo Perezagua, who, when they stood up to the Left Margin, made the whole bourgeoisie of Bilbao tremble, to see what you are doing with the socialist name throughout the Left Margin. And, of course, these people would be torn by the clothes of knowing what they're doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u44	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Popular, Mr. Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Becerra, we already know what we came to, to see who was redder. I give you the role and that is it; we are done with the debate. I'll just remind you of a couple of things, because you've quoted High Horns. Altos Hornos closed, and it became ACB. When we arrived at the Government of Spain in 1996 we had to relocate – which was the commitment of the previous Government of Spain – 600 extra-bajadores from Altos Hornos and they were all relocated to the Left Margen by the Government of the PP. So, lessons, don't give us any. This coming to confuse... Hey, I don't get confused. And your penultimate sentence is the one that has brought about all the confusion in this debate that you have brought. Because you said, of course, they want to fire the entire staff and then hand over the assets to the highest bidder... What happens, that in order to acquire the assets you have to liquidate the company, you have to know what are the assets and all the debts, those of the banks and the debts to the workers? Who's cheating on who here? No, we don't have to fool anyone. I have already told you that we had very easy to come here to do demagoguery, because I could even give birth to you because Mr Sánchez's Government of Spain has supported you. Or what? Sure. But we're not here for that. Mr Casanova, I do not need or expect the Basque Government to tell me what it can or cannot do. If in this Parliament we depend on what the Basque Government tells us what we can or cannot do, in this case or in any other case, we are aviated. No, no. For that, I don't even need to be constantly asking for reports on issues... That is why we are parliamentarians; we are trained, we are informed and we know things. You were the ones who wanted the Basque Government to make a report. It's very good for us to do it. We do not need any reports, either from the Basque Government or anyone else, to know that we need to set up a new company, which is what we all approved in October. And if we have to create a new company, we have to liquidate the old one. So, let's stop demagogicizing and confusing the workers of La Naval and the rest of the people here. The company must therefore be wound up, Mr Casanova. Let's see, he tells me: the CEO has direct investment in the company. Let's see... But, please, what will it have to do with being a shareholder with being the CEO, who is a gentleman or a lady who runs a company, who knows what it's about, who is in charge, in this case, of hiring boats and doing them, in time and in shape? The shareholder may not even sit on the board of directors. See if I have to explain to Mr. Becerra what a CEO is. Or what? Is Mr. Galan the biggest shareholder in Iberdrola, or what? What are we talking about? Let us stop confusing people, if we really care that activity on the Left Margin continues. If we're at something else, then he'll be at something else. We are still in what we were in October and what we were two years before, when we managed to postpone another two or three years for the workers to have the guarantee of being able to return to Navantia if it closed, because they spent 10 years. We – and I repeat – have defended from the minute one is that the naval activity in the Left Margin, which, by the way, was what we agreed at the first point unanimously, goes through the maintenance of the activity of the shipyard of La Naval and its auxiliary industry, which was the main thing, and we all knew, with reports and without reports, how it was done, if in fact we already put it there. However, if the settlement is delayed, the settlement will be delayed (as far as possible). If in the end it is long overdue and the possible remaining assets are being devalued themselves, perhaps, it turns out that, in the end, indeed, it is very difficult to present an alternative to what is inevitably already the closure of La Naval.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u46	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Collect EH, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u47	First of all, two little notes to Mr. Telllería. First of all, please tell me what else is in the same state of La Naval, where the Basque Company is, with that dimensions, if you please, to bring his subject here as quickly as possible. It's like we're running for La Naval, out of place for other companies in the same state. I don't know what this company is, and if you tell me, we'll be happy to get the subject. And, on the other hand, I am angry with you, because you have only been involved with Mr Becerra, in relation to the transactional, and I repeat that you are also involved with me, because I want to claim responsibly also the co-sponsorship of that transaction, in which we have introduced important ideas and, therefore, I am responsible for what is said there and, moreover, with satisfaction, because I think it is a good proposal to improve things. Mrs. Alexia, take things in a better mood. Humor, good humor is not in conflict with seriousness, but with frivolity in any case, if we do not end up as in The name of the rose The Averia Witch said that of live evil, live capital! And I wanted, well, things to be bad for everyone. I do not believe that there is anyone in this House who wants the Naval to be closed; I believe that absolutely everyone here would want the Naval to remain open. I don't think anyone is working openly to do evil, no, but I think there are people who are working in line with a political philosophy, which in this case is going to lead to those bad results, and that someone is the Basque Government. That someone is the Basque Government because he believes, and here we could talk about saying some things in public and another in private, right?, because in public we all defend the Naval, we defend the Naval, but in private there are those who give it up, there are those who believe that there is no solution, there are those who believe that that is the normal course of things, because they approach the problem from their liberal point of view, and they believe that it is the market that has to fix it and that, from the market perspective, this has no solution. And that is the position of the Basque Government, and you, of course, the Socialist Party, have a paper, because, not thinking theoretically like that, you have to justify a government that is acting like this and therefore, indeed, you have a paper, but, in any case, that will be your problem, and it does not evade responsibilities. I too am starting to get a little tired of the issue of demagogy, because here, if we read the transactional, a series of concrete proposals are made, with which one can agree or not, which can be criticized or not, which can be correct or not, and on that, of course, we can argue; I do not believe in the possession of absolute truth. But no demagoguery, because they are proposals that we believe are feasible and in line with the agreement adopted in this House and the legal report commissioned by the workers. If you think it is not so, say why not, but do not accuse of demagogy, because demagogy is, for example, to go to all the workers' manifestations, pat them on the back and then do not do what needs to be done to save the company. That is demagogy: to come out in the photo; but then, from behind, not to be doing what should be done. And the question of the report, man, is that I didn't want to go back to the subject, but the councilwoman has already been vapulated at the hearing and the councilwoman is not exactly lacking, she has the capacity to defend herself, but the indefensible cannot be defended, be it the councilwoman, be it parliamentarian or whoever she is... A report that is requested, in its literality, to study and support the acquisition operation by the public administrations of the assets of La Naval, this cannot be confused, in any way and from good faith, with a report by the Basque Government entitled Report on the possible granting of aid to Northern Naval Constructions And the report is crucial, because it is an issue that requires legal shielding, and it is a legal shielding that has to give us guarantees that what we are doing is not going to hit the European Union. As Mr Becerra said, can you put the letters sent to you by the European Commission, the consultations made by the Basque Government to the European Commission on this issue above us? For I have not seen them; if there are, I have not seen them. Therefore, we are talking about overcomprehensions. Or are we more papists than the Pope and are we already saying, before we ask, that the European Commission is going to forbid us things that other countries have not prohibited them and that the legal report commissioned by the workers says it is not prohibited? Man, we're gonna be serious. That we're not here talking about demagogy, we're talking about finding solutions. And we, as I said, modestly, have tried to contribute those that we believe can contribute. And he said, "How does it help to be here?" What doesn't help there is to have a green marker to give a white card to the government so that it doesn't do anything, as it's doing now... Yeah, something he's doing: he's waiting for an outside investor to come in. That's all he's doing. And we have no use having the green marker; I don't care if I have it in green or in colorines. I want to have a road map, and I want to have a government that does what it has to do to save the Naval. And if the marker here in green is to give an endorsement to the passiveness of the government, with me and with our group, of course, that they do not count. And how does what we're doing today help? Well, you'll tell me, Mrs. Castelo. Would it help to have a legal report supporting the acquisition of shares? Would it help to set up or have a report that, from an economic point of view and from an industrial viability point of view, makes a forward-looking approach to La Naval? Would it help or wouldn't it help? Would it help to build the public-private enterprise that is done with the assets in the liquidation process? Would it help or wouldn't it help? Would it help to seek partners, investors, both public and private, to collaborate with this company, which gives it strength, from an economic point of view and also legal certainty? Would it help or wouldn't it help? That's what we're talking about, and you're shielding yourselves in demagogy, in the left-wing competitions, making many interjections, many general disqualifications, talking about what we haven't come here to propose... But, of course, they escape from the reality of the problem, and it is that the Government has decided that only an external investor, who appears god ex machina We're going to keep pushing for the government to take the initiative, create this company... And it's not a question: now don't talk to me about budgets, not budgets. Mrs Tapia has come here very ufana, saying that there are the necessary resources, because we would not be talking about an exorbitant investment...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u48	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u49	What is needed is political will and the ability to articulate that alternative. And, if you come here today to support a government that is de facto denying itself
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u50	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u51	Mr. Becerra, come down and I'll tell you straight ahead. You have very fine skin. Socialists have a lot of experience and the body very much made to the battle, to the endurance and to the persistence, and we do not get up, as well as so, from a table for any matter that can happen. And you know why? Because, when you break an agreement, when you get up from a table, usually the result is that you don't get a solution, and, as we have it very internalized from Paul Churches and Facundo Perezagua, the socialists have been on this subject for some time. You just got here. He just got here. I can't stand it on this subject, and I can't stand it on this story, I can't stand it. Almost 20 years of my life in public participation alongside the company, mainly because I am linked to the people in which he is and because we have a lot of people working there, and because for us it is essential. Therefore, I am deeply disturbed by the demagogy and confusion with which you raise this issue here. And make no mistake or mistake them. It is you who break the agreement with this proposal. What would help?, Mr. Casanova told me. What would help, help, help...? You know what would help. What would help here? A private investor. Do you know what your report says, that paid report – seven pages are bad, 21 are perfect –? I know it from memory. From memory. The conclusions in one and a half sheets, and all the conclusions, all pass, all of them, through a private investor. So, no one here has lied, no one has changed their position, of course they have... And they did it at dawn that we started with one thing... You were much more prudent, Mr. Becerra less, 100% publishing. You already knew you didn't. You already knew you didn't; he hadn't found out yet. I was listening to what's coming from behind. Listen, and on top of that, I don't... And I feel like it sometimes... "And my group says to me: calm down, because you know this is my business."Sometimes, I feel like saying, well, if what you applaud is this and what's worth this, get out here and say, so should others stop doing what we're doing; we should also leave the way to you, and, with these speeches, you bring me an investor, and from there, the rest of us articulate the organization, we make the report, the consultations before the European Union, which says your report that we have to do, and that's it. If that's the solution. But, as I then calm down and then it hurts and I care and I don't want to cheat on them, and so I don't tell you what I can't tell you, what I'm still doing is, quietly, keep insisting that no one gets up from a table, that they continue to coordinate certain stories that are being asked, that certain deadlines that they need to be relaxed, that you can see if you can articulate something that can give them coverage during that time, to know whether or not we could then return, and how we should do it, if we have any legal loopholes. In all that nonsense, in all that nonsense, we are currently worrying about the socialists. I know you don't care; you're interested in this rostrum. I'm not interested in this rostrum at all. It bothers me that you don't mind that screen getting monocolored. It bothers me a lot. Because, when it is monocolor, it gives them the strength to continue insisting where they have to go, to those high areas that Mr Becerra said, which was an invitation from the parliamentary group of Podemos in the European Parliament, so that it would be a union, not even the whole company committee, to meet with the parliamentarians there. I don't know if they think that with that, I don't know, or we don't know or anything. For what? To ask the European Commissioner a question. That is the great management that has been carried out since Podemos. If you do not need to ask the question, what we need is to bring you the viability plan and the industrial plan, which is presented with an articulated investor, with the collaboration of the public institutions (the Basque Government, outlaws and the Ministry of Industry), if possible the participation of all of them. That's the only reason we're here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u53	Now, Mr. Casanova, I have no objection to addressing you. But I went more to Mr Becerra, with whom he knows that we have more rifirmrafe lately, because last week he was lying to me permanently. And, moreover, because I consider that he is the intellectual-electoral author of this rupture of unanimity. Because, when you tabled your amendment, unanimity did not break the substance. I maintained exactly the agreement we had made, and all you asked was to say that the Government was being delayed in the application and, therefore, we could discuss whether or not it was being delayed. But he's turned it into something else. You've entered Mr. Becerra's game. Well, that's fine, but that's why I think he's the intellectual author, because, basically... I will not go into further discussion, because there are also other ways to resolve the conflict. And entry, entry, I don't mean this is the way to do it, but you're looking for ways out of this conflict. Among other things, if you talk to the Basque Maritime Forum, which is the cluster of the Basque naval industry, we are told that the auxiliary industry is being relocated. Last week I was told that, at the moment, there is no availability of adjusters or welders in Euskadi. I mean, it looks like, on that side... That it is true that some industries will have had to make some restructurings; they are digesting them, and they are moving forward. I mean, the model isn't rotting. He's moving on. In fact, you also know – Mrs Tapia, the Basque Government, told us the other day – that, on the one hand, there are the workers of La Naval, who have the right to return to Navantia, although no one is wishing them to go away, but the Basque Government itself is creating ad hoc training itineraries. In other words, work is under way in all areas. And I think we should see it from that positive view, and not just think that, based on the public coffers, we can solve a conflict that, in general, had generated, if any, entrepreneurs, that is what it is not clear that it has to be solved in a single way. And in that sense, I think we have to be positive and wait. And that means, among other things, that the Basque Government is worrying in all areas, regardless of whether it is looking for a private investor. And look, I don't know, I had some more notes, but I don't think I'm gonna waste much more time. In any case, Mr. Becerra, just one note. You said that everything you had proposed was contrasting and feasible. Why have you given up some things, like buying the dragon in the transaction? Why isn't it contrasted or feasible? Or why, I don't know; I mean, I just got into that doubt. Because, look, these days I've been going over everything you've been through in La Naval, which is already hours. And in an interpellation to Mrs. Arantxa Tapia, she said – she began her intervention by saying – that Altos Hornos closed for the oil crisis, Babcock Wilcox closed for globalization, which were inevitable – that expression used –... And I don't know why, all of a sudden, it came to me. And how clear, that, instead, the Naval is for capitalist ambition. What my colleague Mr. Grajales said to them the other day, that the Lehendakaris had been very good when it had been 20 years. Well, it turns out that business closures on the Left Margin were inevitable after 20 years. Well, I don't know, but I didn't like that thought you did. And, in any case, we, with our amendment, thought that that of the People's Party, which is going to vote before ours, is simpler and summarises perfectly what we wanted, that it was to maintain the unanimity of 22 October, the agreement of 22 October, with which we will vote in principle. Regarding the transactional, I am going to emulate my friend Aitor Esteban, who did it brilliantly – he always does – but yesterday I listened to him, and he seemed to me and I will say: to the first proposition no, and to the others, neither. And, in any case, today we will see, with this vote, that here we do not win the applause; here we win democracy, and democracy is winning with the votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together for the birth corrections signed by Podemos and EH Collectorn. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the odds, 28; the contrary, 44; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u55	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly, 70; the votes given, 71, 43; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u56	So it's accepted to the full correction of the Basque Potion Group. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of the Parlamentarian Party of the Euscal Group, as the popular, is, that Spain should claim to the government, the legitimate President of Venezuela, Juan Guaidó. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr Barrio, representing the Potula team, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and to all. Venezuela. We are going to talk again about this great country here again, in the Basque Parliament, about this great people with whom this country, the Basque Country, has so many ties, so many historical, family, welcoming, commercial relations... A lot of relationships. And, of course, the first thing we have to do is to greet the representatives of the Venezuelan community in Euskadi and, of course, to move them from my group, from the Group of the European People's Party, our solidarity, our support, our affection, and to share with them, in addition, this political moment, this moment that we wanted it to be for the agreement and to move forward on the path of democracy, freedom, respect for human rights, which is ultimately what this initiative brings us here. My group presented the non-law proposal that we discussed today at the time when Mr Juan Guaidó, legitimately and democratically elected president of the National Assembly, swore as interim president of Venezuela, in order to promote its recognition and to help that country free itself from the dictatorship and oppression of the regime of Nicolás Maduro. We present this initiative also recalling an agreement that existed in this Parliament, the parliamentary agreement of almost two years ago, of 4 May 2017, in which this House, at that time – on 4 May 2017 – already expressed its concern about the very serious issues that were taking place in that brotherly country and, in particular – I would like to recall – required the Venezuelan Government to immediately release all political prisoners. In that case, we also referred – even to a Basque person –; we conveyed our condolences – something we have to continue to do – to the relatives of the deceased, in the demonstrations, for the brutal repression of the regime of Nicolás Maduro. And we asked from here to investigate those deaths. We demanded, from this Parliament, from the Government of Venezuela the restitution at that time of the powers detracted from the National Assembly and which the Constitution attributed to it, as well as full and immediate respect for the electoral calendars, at that time planned... Well, we've seen what happened next. The Government of Venezuela was asked to allow the international humanitarian agencies of the United Nations system and the regional agencies of the Americas to visit the country in normal conditions, to collaborate with the authorities and to determine the scope of the humanitarian crisis – something that is still fully in force – and to establish the precise means to reverse the lack of medicines, essential food... – of which we spoke two years ago as well. We also called on the European Council to maintain a common position of the European Union on Venezuela, designing, planning, concerted action to ensure the solution of the humanitarian crisis, human rights and the restoration of democracy. Well, something's progressing... Then I will also refer to the agreements in the European Parliament. The dialogue and negotiation table, which had been put on the table at that time, was requested to be supported. They played Unasur, The Vatican, that is, there were important elements that wanted to influence at that time. And well, this Parliament reminded him and recalled his efforts, and denounced, of course, in that statement two years ago, the recent move by President Maduro to convene a constituent assembly, a decision that sought to avoid elections and the expression of the democratic vote of the citizenry, in the way it did. It is clear that the memory of that agreement comes well, of course, to frame this new phase today. Today, Juan Guaidó is recognized by Spain, by his Government, by the Congress of Deputies, as we have already seen, by his meetings and his agreements, by the European Parliament, by a very large majority, by the majority of the OAS countries, of course by Western democracies, by a large majority. That is to say, that issue is already there, and that capacity as Acting President of Venezuela to convene an election is recognized, and that design or recognition is, of course, to justify that we are also talking about that issue today. We present an initiative urging the Government of Spain... The Government of Spain has taken the steps it had to take. Today we have to talk about more and more things, and that is why the substance of the initiative and the agreement we have reached. The European Parliament's resolution of 31 January 2019 on the situation in Venezuela serves as a clear and fundamental reference. Resolution that analyzes and identifies the most serious problems that Venezuela is experiencing, of course, where the main problem is a dictatorship, is Nicolás Maduro, the dictator, and the institutional dictatorship that surrounds that dictator. Indeed, the text of the European Parliament is a very clear resolution. In other words, it recalls the situation and the problems that Venezuela has in an extraordinary way: it begins by considering that the elections that took place on 20 May 2018 were held – and we are talking about democracy, fundamentally, which is where we want to go – without meeting the minimum international standards necessary for the development of a credible process, without respecting political pluralism, democracy, transparency and the rule of law, and that the European Union, together with regional organizations and democratic countries, did not recognize the elections or the authorities that emerged from that illegitimate process. That is very clear, and it is the foundation of everything else, it is the foundation of the situation that we have today, and it is the foundation of that support that we have to give, of that recognition that we have to give, to Juan Guaidó. Of course, that text of the European Parliament's resolution considered that, on 10 January 19, Nicolás Maduro illegally usurped the presidential power before the Supreme Court, violating the constitutional order. That is something that is also very clear and that this resolution – and we are bringing it here and we want to remember it – has become very clear on that issue. He considered, then, that on January 23, 19 Juan Guaidó, legitimately and democratically elected president of the National Assembly, swore as interim president of Venezuela, in accordance with the Venezuelan Constitution. It continued to consider and allude to the events, protests, demonstrations, death victims, hundreds of wounded, victims who continue to be constantly involved, human rights violations, as a result of acts of violence and repression, against social protests, illegal raids, arbitrary arrests, even of minors. He was talking about a figure – which is already much higher – the stigmatization, the persecution of opposition activists, the arrest of journalists... Yesterday we saw how a journalist from a Mexican media was being held and his articles in connection with Maduro were being hijacked. I mean, that's the day-to-day thing that's going on there. That is also what the European Parliament resolution recalled. In addition, he recalled how the European Parliament and its human rights award has recently been awarded to the democratic opposition and political prisoners in Venezuela; this is something that is obvious, which is also seen where support is. It also recalled the rate of inflation that exceeds 1.650,000 %, that is, something that is brutal. The economic circumstances of the country are also being discussed. And, of course, what I was saying – and where we are going to stop – is that the resolution of the Eurocamera recognizes, by the vote of the vast majority, Juan Guaidó as legitimate interim president of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, in accordance with the Venezuelan Constitution. He speaks in accordance with article 233 – some discuss this circumstance – but in any case, according to the Venezuelan Constitution. I was asking for that statement which has been fundamental to us in the meantime. We also see the expulsion of so many international observers, so many people who are quoted there, to speak with the opposition and are immediately expelled from there. Let us remember recently the expulsion of several MEPs from Venezuela, in an arbitrary way, by the authorities, in order to prevent further institutional, political contacts, support in a country that, logically, moves in the field of dictatorial, repression. That is to say, they are important elements that underpin the fact that it is necessary to deepen support and do so in all possible areas and also in this House. This House, this Parliament, which has already demonstrated – I say again two years ago, but many times more – at difficult times, with institutional declarations, with political positions, its commitment to democracy in that brother country and, of course, we want to do it and we have to do it. In that regard, we have reached an agreement. Of course, the whole amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group was the basis. That is to say, once we had tabled our non-law proposal, we had to look for a point that was already superior to that reality that manifested the non-law proposal, and it was found in a text that we have been able to sign and that I will briefly mention. That text says that the Basque Parliament, like the European Union... Well, there are different positions: there is, on the one hand, the European Parliament, indeed; there is the Commission, Mrs Mogherini, with its statements, with its communiqués; well, it is an iter The Basque Parliament – we say –, like the European Union, supports a political process leading to free and credible elections. And it supports the National Assembly, such as the democratically elected institution, whose powers must be respected. That's the first point. The second point is that the Basque Parliament demands that civil rights, freedom and security be respected and applied to all citizens, but in particular to all members of the Assembly. It's pretty clear where the risks are, isn't it? Where are the dangers, that a dictatorship threatens, in this case, those members of the Assembly, and that, of course, we have to preserve and we have to draw attention to that situation. We are also talking about something fundamental, which is the fundamental axis of the agreement. That is that the Basque Parliament supports Juan Guaidó, supports Juan Guaidó, president of the democratically elected National Assembly, to lead a transition process that will lead, as soon as possible, to democratic elections, sponsored by the UN and other international observers. That is the key element of the issue. That is, that political support, that parliamentary support from popular sovereignty, from this brotherly people, in relation to Venezuela, of support for Juan Guaidó I say again, for a very concrete, very defined mission to re-establish democracy in that country. We are also talking, as an important point, about the Basque Parliament urging the armed forces and the various armed police forces to respect human rights and ensure the integrity and security of all people. Of course, in those calls, as did the resolution of the European Parliament, as did our own statement two years ago, the demand that the murders should be clarified, that human rights violations should cease, that people should not be incarcerated indiscriminately, should be established, unfortunately and permanently, as did the resolution of the European Parliament. That has to be kept on record. And, as a fifth point, the Basque Parliament reiterates its deep concern about the social crisis in Venezuela, and demands that all humanitarian aid be transferred urgently to its population, in order to alleviate the cruel hardships it suffers daily. It is something that also connects with other institutions, that does so with the needs, with the demands of the European Union itself, that has also taken its steps and that has also established some channels of solidarity, but logically everything is insufficient. For we must also continue from our responsibility by calling for that, in connection with neutralizing the humanitarian crisis as well, apart from the brutal political crisis in that country. It is clear, in that sense and to conclude, that the important thing is that today we have been able to reach an agreement of these characteristics, to which we ask that we join the other groups, to this statement of support for Juan Guaidó by the Basque Parliament, to lead that political moment in Venezuela. The Basque Country has had and has many links, as I recalled at the beginning, with Venezuela. Links that neither Chávez nor Maduro have been able to destroy, to denaturalise, links that we, with this debate and with this political and parliamentary position and with the initiative that we present, want to strengthen, with a demanding attitude, in favour of democracy, respect for human rights and public freedoms. That is the agreement that I am presenting to this House today, and I certainly hope that it will be voted on and approved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u58	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who have advanced the corrections, together Podemos, Martínezion, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u59	Good morning. Venezuela, Mr Barrio said: we are in the middle of the umpteenth debate on Venezuela. And I would ask: why so much interest in the right for Venezuela? What will he have? I wonder if we're debating, in a non-Venezuelan parliament, if Maduro is, or if Maduro isn't. Does it matter whether this Parliament, or any other Parliament other than that of the Venezuelan people, thinks about Maduro? I'd say no, he doesn't. And he doesn't have it because the only one legitimized to decide the continuity of a president – in this case, in Venezuela – has been, is and will be the people of Venezuela themselves. In 1998 Venezuela changed, and there have been 20 years of victories by progressive forces in that country. Victorias, minus two, 26 or 27 elections, with an electoral system – I open quotes – "transparent, clear and legal" – I close quotes – in the words of the former president of the United States and dangerous and well-known communist, Jimmy Carter – apparently, of course. Curious that no one from the opposition questioned the outcome of the elections when the opposition won the election. And, at that time, other countries of South America also changed towards progressive governments, which neither the United States nor Europe, allies and puppets of the United States in international politics, could afford. And they could not afford it for two very simple reasons: one, achieving a decade gained in inclusive social and economic development, and two, regional integration independent of what the United States said. And, for example, a very important statement to be made here today: declare South America a zone of peace, that it was CELAC that declared it and that the United States is violating it at the moment. After these progressive processes, what followed? He followed the blockade on Cuba, the coup d'état in Honduras, the police coup in Ecuador, the imprisonment of Lula – who is still in prison – the coup d'état to Dilma Rousseff, the coup d'état to Lugo in Paraguay... That is what followed that, that is the response of Western democracies to the progressive changes. And Venezuela, of course, a country with more than obvious problems, with a polarization that has so far been resolved through the ballot box; a country, curiously, which has one of the largest reserves of oil, gold and other raw materials in the world. But, in addition, it has a non-acolyte government of the United States, and that bothers. It bothers a lot. And from that coup d'état in 2002 to Hugo Chávez; 48 hours lasted that coup to the employer, to the Church, to Aznar and also to a few Basques and Basques. And from there, too, the strong sanctions and economic embargoes on the people of Venezuela, rather than on the Government, which affects the people: 18 billion oil embargo; 34 million dollars held in drug purchases; hundreds of millions of euros in drug payments held, and, for example, an Iberia plane, which 15 days ago returned with 200,000 drugs that were going to Venezuela. And that... the Government of Spain will have something to say about that. And of course there is a very big economic crisis in Venezuela, and there are daily problems in Venezuela. I was there months ago, and I could check it out, and it doesn't take going there to find out. And there are also countless errors on the part of the government, as in any part of the world. Of course there is, of course there is... But what is our response, to help or to make an economic blockade that further increases the cost of commodities to encourage a military rebellion? Is this the way you, gentlemen of the PP, the PSOE and the PNV, have supported these kinds of statements in other parliaments? And I'm going to go further, on May 20th there was a free and legitimate presidential election... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u61	Free and legitimate elections, with the presence of more than 200 international observers, two of them, by the way, members of this House. And Mr Txarli Prieto, Mrs Bakartxo Tejeria and Mrs Iñigo Iturrate, at the Bureau, blocked an invitation from the National Electoral Council to this Parliament to come to these elections as international observers. And now we discuss under what criteria. What legitimacy do we have, after having rejected an official invitation that, for example, in the case of Colombia, we have not done so? What legitimacy do we have to think about that? And I was there, and my personal opinion matters zero on this subject, but the more than 200 observers spoke, and they also spoke of elections that were the result of negotiations in the Dominican Republic between the government and the opposition, led by President Rodríguez Zapatero and other presidents of Latin America. Who was the one who got up at the last minute? Who was it that got up at the last minute, after having reached an agreement to hold a presidential election in Venezuela? I say it: Julio Borges and another part of the opposition. And I don't say it, Zapatero says it; there's the hemerotheque to see it. And they were also elections the result of an agreement of electoral guarantees between the candidates of the opposition who decided to run and the president and candidate Nicolás Maduro. This is the deal and here are the signatures of the four presidential candidates. Agreement on electoral guarantees (Paper bat erakusten du Eta irakurtzen du) Also that day three elections were held in Venezuela, other elections in Venezuela, regional elections; in three states he won the opposition. I haven't seen any complaints against that result. Double moral, double measuring rod? And we knew that January was coming; we knew that there were going to be problems; we knew that they were going to try to ignore Maduro's government, and the self-proclaiming charade came on the street of Congressman Juan Guaidó, in a totally irregular and separate illegal procedure. And, hey, curiously in 30 minutes, the human rights champion, Donald Trump, and subchamp Bolsonaro, go and recognize Guaidó. First two friends of the supposed president in charge of Venezuela, who I am not acting, Mr. Barrio. And in addition, January 25th, Mr. Donald Trump appoints Mr. Elliott Abrams as head of the United States for Venezuela's affairs. You know who this gentleman is, don't you? The one who financed the Contra in Nicaragua by selling arms to Iran, Reagan's National Security Advisor, the war architect to Iraq with 300,000 dead. This type, or typejo, is in charge of an operation of "humanitarian" aid – and I say so – on the border of Colombia, from which the United Nations, the International Red Cross and Caritas have been demarcated. There is no legal process of humanitarian aid under international law, because it is neither impartial nor independent nor neutral and subject to military objectives. I'm not saying it, the UN, Caritas and the Red Cross say it. If Trump and Abrams, and others, wanted to alleviate the suffering of the people of Venezuela, they would not be suffocating it with an embargo and economic sanctions; they would not be using economic famine as a political weapon. They wouldn't be doing it. But they want to use – and this is how serious this is – that suffering as an excuse to raise the Army, which has not happened, and to justify military intervention. They are irresponsibly using the people as cannon meat, because there will be no seizure of power by the opposition without the armed force, and Iñigo Martínez does not say it, says Henrique Capriles, leader of the opposition of Venezuela. "There will be no takeover by the opposition without armed force," I repeat, that's what Capriles says. Gentlemen of the PP, the PSOE and the PNV know that recognizing Guaidó is an irresponsibility and that what is needed is to support mediation and dialogue initiatives to avoid bloodshed. He has said, for example, Craig Faller, the head of South Command of the United States Army: there are two ways to solve the problem, or we take Maduro out as Noriega or we take him out as Marcos. Is that promoting democracy? The question, in my opinion, which should be answered by those who have signed the transactional, is why you are doing this. Here are the results of the operations to defend democracy and human rights in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, Yemen, with Basque weapons, which is a shame that we continue to allow the sending of Basque weapons to Yemen, and this Parliament today speaks of humanitarian aid looking elsewhere, while the refugees of these wars drown for thousands in the Mediterranean Sea. Therefore, today you should explain in this rostrum what you will do if there is a military coup or foreign intervention in Venezuela. Are you going to support him? And if you are not going to support it, why has this recognition served the farce process of the presidency supposedly in charge of Guaidó? It is an irresponsible decision – wrong, too – because there was an alternative, and it is still underway: to support the governments of Mexico, Uruguay and Bolivia, to contribute to a peaceful resolution of the conflict, or also to follow the words of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres: "Dialogue, dialogue, dialogue; mediation, mediation, mediation". That's the solution. That is the role of democrats: to respect the principles of the Charter of the United Nations; not interference, not intervention, respect for the self-determination of peoples and always bet on dialogue and mediation. And what is our place? What should be our place? I say it again: support dialogue. The other thing is to support a coup. That's the only break we have. Look, I started military in 2003, when I was 15 years old, I was just 15 years old, with the no to the war in Iraq, with the no to the picture of the Azores, and I wonder what the Basque Nationalist Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party are doing with those of the Columbus trio, supporting an attempted coup d'état in Venezuela. If the same people who led the invasion of Iraq are now in charge of Operation Guaidó, I wonder, ironically, in case you don't notice, what might fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u62	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u63	Good morning, everyone. He's not Venezuela. Since the beginning of February, the poorest country in America has taken the streets to prevent poverty, want, hunger, corruption. But President Jovenel Moïse protects Guaidó, so you won't bring up a question of emergency here in Haiti. Honduras is not Venezuela. The natives, taking a backpack, began to run away from each other in their flight, from hunger, from fear, from narcotics, from different countries, from the caravans of the migrators. But when they were obliged to leave Mexico, they met a wall and a military wall on the threshold of the United States; they have reached a country where they cannot attain to, and become invisible again. The United States, the Honduras... They protect Guaidó, and therefore there will not be a question of submission here, either by Honduras or by the wall of shame. Yemen is not Venezuela. Almost four years of war, 120,000 children are threatened to starve at the moment, and a million pregnant and nursing children are in a desperate condition. In what they're looking at as one of the most serious crisis in the history of the world, people are begging them not to forget them, to send them humanitarian help, but what they get from the nation is nothing but bombs built by us. The King of the Spanish State protects Saudi Arabia, and therefore you will not bring here a question of emergency in Yemen. And because this is not Haiti, Honduras, or Yemen, because this is not Colonia, Sahara, or Kurdi, but rather search for points of conversation and common conversation, make this proposal noise. You said, "Hemos querido que sera para el accuedo," but no purpose for the interview. Mr. Barrio, we haven't received any calls from you, no emails, no suggestions. You're not even interested in taking a turn on our proposal from the EH Collector. If you don't want a Venezuelan interview, how would you like a conversation here? For the only thing we asked when we brought him here is this: "The parliamentor informs him of his support, and asks the General Secretary of the United States to inform him at the same time of his situation in Venezuela, of Mexico, Uruguaai, and of the government of Norway, and of the work of the Montevideo, from which, at the same time, the Chief Secretary of the United States has been summoned to interview and to remedy." The serious situation of Venezuela, the proposal for conversation, the union of the United Nations, and you have refused, because you want to decide which way the people of Venezuela require, you want to mark the way, you three of you accepted Guaidó a month ago as president. And it's been a month, and what are we doing? The tension is continually rising, the division and the impossibility increase, pain, hunger, rage, all this crystallizing. To talk about Venezuela is legitimate, even to give an opinion. It's necessary to create a discussion, but that's not the point today. You want isolation: to strengthen the strict positions and not to move them. A state of this kind demands extensive agreements, and you have not laboured in this direction. Guaidó, the self-proklamed Guaidó, insists that all options should be set up for the people that protect him and the United States of America that protects him. In front of this, what do you think? Are you going to continue to protect a man who thinks military interference is an opportunity? He doesn't want to interview, he doesn't want elections. And you're talking about humanitarian help, and you know what you're proposing is that the United States of America are trying to get into Venezuela is not humanitarian help. And I say not, but the Red Crosses, the Caristists, and the Organizations of the United Nations. Neutrality, impartiality, and independence ought to have humane aids, which are not clear and clear. I won't say there's no problem, I won't say there's no problem in getting food or medication, but I won't look on the other side. They want to put a small spoonful of food and physic into the Venetian people, the people with their throats completely shut, the authors of the economic lock that causes the closing of this throat. Let the pressure that closes the people's throat, and let them breathe, let them let them make their way, give them proper space for discussion, and let us stand by, if need be, to give this interview a taste. Breathe in to Venezuela, space and time. Don't rush in and out of international contact, because we don't want war, we're going to fight and fight neutral roads to solution, like Mexico, Urugua, and Norway did, and we're not going into angelenism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u65	President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Venezuela who are with us today. Socialists have many reasons to take a stand on what is happening in their country, and today I am going to say, among many others, five: The first is a reason of an international character, of international solidarity and of respect for and defence of human rights; something that concerns us all of humanity and that obviously motivates us and leads us to extend it also to Venezuela, a country where human rights are not being respected at the moment. Secondly, we want to bet on avoiding any widespread armed action, whether from the inside or from the outside of Venezuela. All the political positions and all the political defence we are doing in this regard, we are doing so on the basis of dialogue, on the basis of trying to establish democratic guarantees, which allow the political direction of that country to be straightened out according to the whole of its citizenship. And therefore, we are and will be against, wherever it comes from, any initiative that resorts to weapons. Thirdly, we stand by the fact that humanitarian aid enters Venezuela, by demanding that such humanitarian aid, when it is absolutely necessary, as I will then illustrate with some data, for the entire population. Fourthly, we want to defend and protect the more than 160,000 Spanish citizens who live in that country and who are also suffering and suffering the consequences of everything I have said so far, and we also want to regain full freedom, we want to regain democracy and we want to recover a minimum quality of life for the citizens of Venezuela. It is therefore opportune for this Parliament, today, to join the international community in raising its voice and taking a position to influence a way out of the serious problem currently facing the country of Venezuela. To speak of Venezuela today is to talk, inevitably, of the achievements of the last years of Nicolás Maduro, its achievements are as follows: to divide and confront the citizenry, to put in jail the opposition, to destroy the productive system, to prevent humanitarian aid, to manipulate and to rig the Justice and the Army, to promote insecurity, crime, smuggling, looting, corruption, to help food and health shortages, to reduce political and civil liberties, to bring a rich country to poverty, to make its population suffer to infinity... Venezuela needs, first of all, a transition, a political transition, a democratic transition, a transition with international participation, a transition that once again gives the floor to all citizens so that they can democratically resolve the configuration of institutions that are free from suspicion of non-democracy, and that, in turn, can regain the quality of life they once had. Venezuela is not an ideological problem; it is not a left and right problem at this time, nor is it a problem of Guaidó or Maduro, and, of course, it is much less a problem of Carter, Trump, or Zapatero. Venezuela is a problem of whether it moves from disease to health, from crime to security or from persecution to freedom. That's the problem with Venezuela. And when you try to catch quotes, data, countries, situations and make many parallels, it's because there's very little interest in talking about Venezuela. Because if there was a president of government in this country, in this country, there was a president of government voted for 99% of the citizenry and doing only 10% of what Maduro is doing today, it is that we would kick him out of the government, although 99% of the citizenry would have voted for it. But in Venezuela it is allowed that, since 2015, there are three and a half million people who have had to leave Venezuela, in order to live they have had to leave Venezuela, or they have had to flee Venezuela in order to live, in order to defend their physical integrity. There is an inflation that no one knows how to calculate; money is absolutely worthless. There, with a worker's monthly salary, it is impossible to buy five kilos of potatoes for a whole month; this is Venezuela's economic reality. Venezuela has more than $40 billion fled the country in recent years; it has 87 per cent of the population living in poverty. Venezuela is a country that has, as has been said, the largest oil reserves in the world, and has no petrol for its citizens; but, moreover, its citizens have no money to buy it. This is the reality of Venezuela. It is a country, today, where the most developed activity is begging, it is what is seen permanently, and that cannot be hidden and that there is no Democrat who can tolerate it. There is no Democrat who can hide it, and there is no Democrat who can disguise it, be it in the name of anything. The distribution of humanitarian aid, which we have seen these days, has become five dead, 200 wounded, 50 detained, two burnt trucks and the others who have had to turn around, because it did not allow the Government, with the army, to give the citizens food and medicine that they so much need. That is a great achievement of Maduro, and that is the situation he portrays and has turned the world around today about how the situation is in Venezuela. This, I said before, does not go to Maduro or Guaidó, this goes to life or death, this does not go to left or right, this goes to dictatorship or democracy. And, therefore, the Socialists are, we will always be, with life and freedom, we will be with democracy, and we are, for all that, with all the citizens without exception of Venezuela, and especially with those who are suffering the most from this situation. I would like no one to cover this reality, and not to try to divert attention to other problems, other conflicts and other dramatic situations that are also going on, that also any of you, whenever you want, can take the initiative of bringing an inquiry here or a non-law proposal here, and we can talk about Yemen, we can talk about whatever you want. But well, the agenda is chosen by opposition groups, and an opposition group has brought Venezuela and we talk about Venezuela. And Venezuela can't be covered with other things. And I will add one more thing: the Bureau of this Parliament, to which I am a party, did not veto the trip to Venezuela. What he said was that he wasn't paying any parliamentarians for the trip to a rigged, cheating and anti-democratic election. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u66	Thank you, Mr Price. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to say hello to the Venezuelan immigrants and the refugees of Euskal and Venezuela. Today, again, we have to talk about Venezuela, and unfortunately things are getting worse in every area: "Venetuela's critical situation is that he's living hard times, his democracy is sick, and the social context system has long since failed. The regime is completely corrupt, and we may safely say that the legal profession is entirely extinct. President Maduro wants to acquire all power, and he becomes more and more clear de facto. With these words I began my speech here, two years ago, and unfortunately the panoama of Venezuela is getting darker and darker. In this chamber Mr. Barrio also, M. Pastor, has said that we have brought the subject here several times: In 2015, 2017, we bring him here today. Independently of the political situation, social conditions and security are purely a disaster in Venezuela: human rights are not respected; poverty is, in fact, greater and greater, poverty, and want is found in every department. Venezuela is lacking in all: work, justice, food, medicine... And it can be said, frankly, that all the standards of living that are related to the conditions of Venezuela have deteriorated noticeably in recent years. And this has been the reason why more than 3 million people according to the UN, more than 4 million according to other sources, have had to leave the country, simply to survive, to feed their families. Venezuela's decline is increasing every day; poverty is tremendous, and it continues to rise day after day and, as I said before, lack of everything: medicines, more basic sanitary and sanitary products are missing, and food of primary need. And, in addition, the population still living in Venezuela must face another kind of calamities: The first is that he lives in a regime that does not respect human rights. And I'm not saying that, says the UN Human Rights Commission. In addition, he has to deal with a tremendous crime, of the highest in the world. And, to conclude – what Mr Barrio and Mr Prieto have recalled – there is a hyperinflation that decapitalizes any personal assets, however modest it may be, that prevents savings, since it is much easier to buy today than to pay double or triple tomorrow. And while, for we have a pathetic Nicolás Maduro, every day more pathetic and, if the situation in Venezuela was not so tragic, I would say grotesque. It prohibits humanitarian aid, allows it to be burned at the border, and meanwhile, its people have neither to eat nor to leave. I am not going to talk about inflation again, but it is that, in addition to that hyperinflation, which forces people to buy food with ticket bags, because Venezuela is the second-largest murder-rate country in the world, after Syria, which is a country that, as everyone knows, has a war conflict. But in addition, 22 per cent of homicides are given responsibility to the state security forces, 22 per cent of homicides. Until recently, Venezuela owed more than $70 billion to China and, in order to pay the debt, has given it its oil and mineral resources at a balance price. And since Russia isn't stupid either, and business is business Also, Mr Putin has decided that Venezuela will be the spearhead of Russia in Latin America and, in passing, has signed a military agreement so that Russian aviation can use the bases in Venezuela. Venezuela lacks everything; there is corruption everywhere. Father Luis Ugalde, who is a Hungarian Jesuit, who left for Venezuela at the age of 18 and has devoted his entire life to the poor, in addition to being rector of the Catholic University Andrés Bello, noted in an interview, in 2017, that six former Chavista ministers had reported that the regime had stolen $230 billion from the country. This was not said by Father Ugalde; it was said by the six former Chavista ministers. Today, we have former directors of Pdvsa, Oils of Venezuela Society Anonymous, who are prosecuted in Andorra for alleged laundering of $2 billion, and other ex-directives are also prosecuted for laundering in Dubai $124 million of illegal commissions. That's Maduro's regime. Venezuela is becoming poorer, and between 2013 and 2017, it has lost 38% of its GDP, but last year, only last year, the IMF tells us that it has lost another 18%. That's Mr. Maduro's Venezuela, self-proclaimed head of state, head of de facto government. Eta Eusko Legebiltzarrak behin bath gehiagotan eskatu god Venezuelako Gobernuari drink Konstituzioa bete dezala age, huta ere, giza eskubideak bermatu dizala. Eta berriro lehenbailehen eskatzen dugu hauteskunde askeak, demokratikoak anda baketsuak antolatzeko. Giza eskubideak, demokrazia eta herritarren eskubideak erespectatu behar dira era bermatu behar dira lehenbaileen. And that is why we were urging, as soon as possible, that these elections be held in Venezuela, under the auspices of the UN or an international observation. And we also asked for that, because we are afraid of violence, that the armed forces of Venezuela, the police and the Bolivarian militias and the Bolivarian cells, which have weapons everywhere, will use violence against their population, and that is what we do not want. The Lima Pact had already said that it was not going to use violence, which rejected it. I don't trust Mr. Maduro. And we call on the armed forces, the police and the security forces to defend their people, and to ensure the peace and security of all people. And, of course, given the situation in Venezuela, that humanitarian aid, which is perfectly legal, Mr Martínez Zatón, arrives as soon as possible, that it does not burn at the borders, and can reach where it has to go, the people who are dying of hunger, who need it most. We will therefore vote for the compromise amendment that we have negotiated with the People's Group, the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Euzko Abertzaleak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u68	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Passing the answer to the popular Basque Group, Mr Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President, and also Mr Martínez Zatón and Mrs Etxebarrieta very soon. We are very proud of this agreement; we think it is an important agreement at this political moment. We are very proud of this agreement reached, and I would also like to thank Mr Aguirre and Mr Prieto for their ease, their willingness, the fact that we have been able to talk about these issues and reach that agreement. It is clear that I did not contact you, because the amendments as a whole, the sense of what you wanted to say, was opposed to what we wanted to talk about; that was to avoid, of course, in a clear way, as Mr Martínez Zatón did in his amendment, or not clear, because the fact of support for Juan Guaidó did not appear on any side; that is, in his amendment as a whole there was nothing about it, and he was talking about other issues, which well, which could be interesting, but there was nothing about it. That is, in any case, if there had been any reflection in that sense, the approach could also have been on his part. I mean, look, Mr. Martínez, justify Maduro, as you do, and doing it by hiding behind the Venezuelan people, that's a sarcasm; that is, a people who live repressed, who lives in fear, who lives with all deprivations, you hide behind that, that situation, to justify Maduro. In addition, Mr Martínez Zatón, you represent, in this Parliament, Maduro's extension to Euskadi; you clearly represent him. You represent the extension of Maduro in Euskadi, the extension of Maduro in Spain, its ideology, its political characteristics, its support, and that is what you represent. That is, I do recognize to you the merit of justifying the unjustifiable; you have done so clearly, you have done so here, diverting attention in other conflicts, in other circumstances and, of course, not recognizing what everyone sees, what everyone says, the situation that that country is experiencing, the permanent coup d'état in which that country lives by its leaders, by Maduro, as before Chávez. And now we are seeing the light; that is, the light has been seen with the courageous attitude, with the determined attitude, of the President of the Venezuelan National Assembly; the light has been seen, the political light, the democratic light, the light of a future has been seen. Something clears up the future, which, of course, is still very complicated. Mr Prieto and Mr Aguirre have spoken about the issues that are going on today, but today there is a light, a light that the governments of France, Spain, the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, the European Union, that is, the European Parliament – I have been very extensive before in making a fundamental reference to a major resolution adopted last month. That is the fundamental element. In addition, it is already trying to put fear and talks about military interventions, the use of weapons. Let's see, Mr. Martínez Zatón, it is Maduro who makes use of weapons, resorts to weapons against his people, every day, killing people. You know that; that is, how can you talk about the fear of an intervention: no one has talked about it here, no one has talked about it here. That's what you're talking about to divert attention, not to get into the core of the issue, to divert and to justify I don't know what risks, I don't know what... None of that. We are talking with the laws, with the resolutions, the countries through their declarations, their recognitions, the OAS, the countries, the European Union, the countries, that is what we are talking about today and the requests we have made. So don't divert attention that way, because, of course, it's not reality. What is an irresponsibility, Mr Martínez, is not to support Guaidó – you said it is an irresponsibility. What is an irresponsibility, of course, is to continue to cover up Maduro, as you do; that is irresponsibility, of course, and here we denounce it, but the Venezuelan people are the ones who suffer it. That's what really happens. We are, of course, alongside, as I have said, those statements, those resolutions, those democracies, which have spoken as they have spoken in connection with support and, of course, Mr Martínez Zatón, what is a sarcasm – I believe that more than a sarcasm is an insult – is to call democratic elections to the elections of May 20, 2018. That is to say, that is an insult to democracy, of course: I have already said this very clearly, something as objective as, in this case, a parliamentary majority as broad as that of the European Parliament, in relation to how those elections were: it was not a credible process, political pluralism, democracy, transparency, the rule of law were not respected; that is to say, neither the elections nor the authorities that emerged from that illegitimate process were recognized. It's pretty clear. That's there; I mean, I don't know what you can call democratic elections to that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u70	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u71	Sí. Finally, I have a few words, which yesterday were pronounced in the Congress of Deputies: "A government that oppresses its people, perpetuating itself in power, cannot enjoy the appreciation of those who believe in freedom and progress, and respect for the constitutional order that emanates from the popular will." That was said yesterday by Martin Vizcarra, President of Peru and, of course, we share those statements made in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u72	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr MartínnezIón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u73	Mr. Barrio. Trump's Security Advisor threatens Maduro with Guantanamo; if this is not to promote violence, then I am not very clear what it is to promote violence and what it is not to promote violence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u74	A ver, please, silence. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u75	And I think they'd do well, come..., that they'd do well, sorry, to review the words I said. And we talked about the economic crisis in Venezuela and all the problems in Venezuela; we talked about trying not to come up with preconceived ideas. No one denies the problems. Here the break is how we solve it. Do we solve it with sanctions? Did we solve it with blockages? Do we solve it by drowning a people who have enough problems, as above now having to suffer more economic sanctions? Or we resolve it with dialogue, dialogue, dialogue, dialogue and dialogue, and whenever you want. And mediation, mediation, mediation, mediation, mediation... Interestingly, in his transaction, not a single mention of a dialogue mechanism launched by Uruguay, by Mexico, by Bolivia, which also supports Federica Mogherini; not a single mention, not a single mention, how curious, of the dialogue initiative. Who said no to the pope's mediation? Juan Guaidó. The opposition. That's reality, that's reality. And they're talking about geopolitics, so did Mr.... "I will try to continue despite the interruptions of the public, by the way." Mr Aguirre is speaking, and Mr Barrio, I think, has also spoken, about China and Russia, about geopolitics. Well, we can talk about geopolitics. I advocate a multipolar and democratic world. I will not defend the United States, China or Russia, but a multipolar world. Of course, Maduro's government makes agreements with China and Russia. What did John Bolton say about the crisis in Venezuela? "It would be desirable for U.S. companies to move to control Venezuela's oil fields." There it is, there is the democratic caress of the United States and the international community with Venezuela: its oil wells. The rest, the rest are all fireworks and theatre of a farce that disassembles itself. And choices... So president that is Juan Guaidó, so president that is Juan Guaidó. In Venezuela's Constitution, a president-in-charge has a number of days to call an election. What happened, you didn't summon them? It's just that he's not so president, not so president, because there's no call for elections. And there has been a proposal for elections, legislative elections, December 2019, and they have proposed a mechanism for dialogue to reach an agreement. What did Juan Guaidó say? No, no, What matters here is to overthrow Maduro. So, we no longer care about a democracy, freedom, blah, blah, blah... No, we don't mind overthrowing a president. Mr Barrio, I have my opinion on Nicolás Maduro and the Venezuelan process, and I have not given it here today, and I have not given it. Check the records a little. It's just that you don't have to be either opposite or in favour of Maduro to do the intervention I'm doing right now. And I have my opinion, and it's also public, but it's not necessary. You don't have to have it. Here we are talking about free elections, democratic elections, mediation and dialogue, not on one side or the other. And humanitarian aid. Let's see, what happened the other day in Cúcuta, one of the poorest areas of Colombia, that you had to drop your face of shame saying that that is humanitarian aid, because it would also have to help the people of Cúcuta, that we are on top of leading a problem to that area of Colombia, that there are many problems Colombia also has. Of course, things are needed in Venezuela. Let's make a process for that to happen. Why does Iberia, with a not yet very clear order from the Government of Spain, return an airplane with 200,000 medicines heading for Venezuela? Why doesn't that help get in and try to do the show? A show Therefore, it is not me, and my opinion is not important in this debate. The important opinion of this debate is that of Venezuelans and from the international community... By the way, it is a lie that the international community as a whole supports Guaidó. 51 countries. How many are in the United Nations? Over 190. Does the OAS support Guaidó? No, no, The Secretary General of the OAS, yes. The OAS didn't get the votes. They didn't get them. They didn't get them, too bad, but they didn't get them. Nor in the EU; it was the European Parliament. The European Union needs unanimity. There are several countries that are blocking that, fortunately. Fortunately, because they are responsible countries, they are not supporting coups d'état. I therefore conclude: dialogue, dialogue, dialogue, and mediation and support for the Uruguay and Mexico machinery to promote such dialogue. Everything else will continue to encourage this coup process driven by Guaidó and external agents in Venezuela. Democracy, dialogue, mediation. Let's say again, you don't have to be on one side or the other. We're talking about dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u77	...and respect for democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u78	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u79	I said it was going to be a monologue, and that's what happened today. Of the humanitarian help, we have mentioned that the humanist help cannot be called, because the Red Cross himself, Caritas, or United Nations have said it. Call it what you want, but that's not a humanitarian help. But every one has continued to say what he pleases, in the same way as it is lawful. We talked about the burning trucks. Well, where the pictures come from and where we look from where that cocktail driver came from. That's seen too. They told me to look at you from above, to look at my face. I don't have a problem. The point is, today, we were arguing in here. And besides, one of the things I've accused of is that you haven't had a chance to talk here, because here, at the Human Rights Committee, we're used to taking things differently. We invite people, they come, they talk, we encourage debates. You say no with your head, but these are facts here. The other members of the Human Rights Committee will know that, when we work in different countries, my teams, for instance ège, Colombo, Kurdistan, have led us to the conclusion that we have obtained a position here, or that we have sought to achieve other things. But, by the agreement between us all, we've decided to mark our red lines, yes, but to bable our toes. Something that hasn't been done here. And I don't tell you, I say to these things: I call PNV, PP and Social Party. Because we listen to each other at the Human Rights Committee, because we speak to each other, and I'm very used to it, because I carry them to work on the themes of international relations and human rights by institutional expressions. What's that supposed to mean? Getting unanimous agreements. And Mr. Barrio will know how many times we've been talking about a text to make an agreement between us. And you didn't want that here. So you're invited to the Human Rights Committee to come to the Foreign Relations Committee to hear your opinion. And I look in the face, no problem at all. Because you're welcome. But everyone else is. And what I was trying to put here today was what I was trying to put on the table and you'll understand if you don't want to understand, it's just what we've tried to do that we're going to set up the routes to the interview here and we're trying to put them downtown. As serious parliaments do certain things, I think it is necessary to consider, for instance, the Bundestag, before any decision was made, asked for a report of experts, sobre el recorocimiteto de jefes de mundo extjeros. I don't have time to mention everything that's in it. It's ten pages, very interesting, of what I suggest you read. And immediately it says plainly: He talks English and advises not to take the steps you took in international contact on the table. We could have asked for something like that, we could ask for experts' opinions, we could meet and have a conversation, and it wasn't today. Today was a monologue. Eta amaituko dut, Barrio jauna, esan duzu guk aurkeztu duguna that is opposite to what you proposed. If the dialogue is opposed to what you are proposing, it has become very clear to me what the objective of today was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u81	President. Very briefly. Mr. Martínez Zatón, attend to what I have heard from Mr. Maduro. Maduro, two months ago, said there was a lot of corruption in his government. Mr Maduro said this two months ago. How long would a president of government in a democratic country say there is corruption in his government? Not that he is accused of corruption, that he says he knows, that he knows, that there is corruption in his government. Make a confession of crime in your government. How long would a democratic government last in any place where democracy is valued? It wouldn't last at all. So, the question is for you, how much corruption is needed in Venezuela for you to stop supporting, your political group, Mr Maduro? How much corruption is needed? How much to certify? How much misery do you have to transfer to the population, to the citizenry, so that you stop supporting Mr Maduro? Answer that. Answer this. Because that's what we're talking about. We are talking about Venezuela, and of course there is a solution for Venezuela. The solution also passes through them alone and exclusively, because they resolve, because they decide. And that can only be done in free elections. Do you know what free elections are? Free elections are those where there are no exclusions. Those where the opposition is not in prison, or in exile, or persecuted. That is the concept of free elections. Those that could not be given in May 2017, or 2018, in Venezuela, and so in the end the opposition also decided not to participate. Free elections, democratic elections, elections where the electoral board and the judiciary are free of any suspicion of favoring those who are ruling, or ill-governing a country like Mr Maduro. Because there is no doubt, and there is too much information about it, as far as the manipulation of justice in Venezuela comes, in order to favor everything that Mr Maduro has wanted to achieve, without having the support of the citizenry, as demonstrated in the last elections. Maduro is not the great president of Venezuela. Maduro is not the president loved by the majority of Venezuelan citizens. Maduro is not the president who obtained the votes of a majority of Venezuelans; he obtained them from a minority in a cheating election, in a rigged election, in an election with exclusion, without opposition. This is what needs to be answered, because, of course, there will have to be the same filter of democracy and there will have to be the same level of democracy and the same rule of democracy here, in Germany, in France or in Venezuela. Or is it that you to each country put a certain level of democracy, which has nothing to do with one country with another? That's the problem. You know perfectly well and your group knows perfectly well, and Bildu knows perfectly, and everyone knows perfectly, that the problem of dialogue for consensusing an election, which I wish could be done by consensus – and I don't care whether it is through the UN or through the Montevideo table, or the Lima table, or the table from where it is; it doesn't matter exactly – I wish there could be consensus elections, but the question is: when does a dictator want to consensus the election? This is Maduro's problem. When someone wants to perpetuate himself under his dictatorship, he becomes a dictator and dialogue is the most hindrance to him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u82	Thank you, Mr Price. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. I really don't see how you can defend a despot like Maduro. I can't think, it doesn't fit. Maduro is in power because he set traps in the May 2018 elections: he violated human rights; he banned political parties; he imprisoned political leaders, and he killed protesters who were on the street opposing this takeover. The UN Human Rights Commission denounced the multiple violations that took place in the elections, Mr. Martínez Zatón, and no one recognized the validity of the elections, neither in the European Union nor in the OAS. None of the 28 member states of the European Union recognized the validity. Maduro is an impostor; acknowledge him. Nik ez dut ulertzen hemen Etxebarrietak egin dueen defensa, zergatik nik gogoratzen ditut zure hitzak ore de la bi urte hemen bertan, esanez gutxiago salatu Venezuela eta gehiago salatu Turkia. Begiratu, gaur egun, Erdogan da Maduroren lagoon, because Maduro's friends are the People's Republic of China, Vladimir Putin, the Syrian super-democratic Bashar al-Assad and Erdogan, who so much wanted to denounce Mrs Etxebarrieta. Nicolás Maduro has de facto installed The military are in all parts of power. Maduro has militarized Venezuela. It has purchased them; it has the dome completely bought: they control 12 ministries and 6 states of Venezuela and the Ministry of Food, which was created in 2004 to alleviate the famine in Venezuela, has received 60 billion dollars for the purchase of food, because there is neither food nor money. They stole it. They stole it! The Bolivarian National Armed Force is in charge of an empire that controls oil companies, construction companies, agricultural firms, insurance companies, banks and vehicle and clothing factories. Only Pdvsa, which controls the military, has a conglomerate of 324 companies and subsidiaries. And what has Venezuela done? It's producing half of what it was producing five years ago, it's ruined and it's decapitalized. I'm going to read what Rafael Ramírez, former economic president of Nicolás Maduro, said three weeks ago to El País. "(Maduro) has violated the Constitution, has abused its power, has become an authoritarian government, has closed all the valves of the democratic game, has acted violently, but has also been an incapable in government management, particularly economic. It has fulfilled its purpose of destroying Pdvsa (...), the fundamental axis of our economy. 96% of our revenue comes from oil." He says: "Mature is not only acting outside the Constitution, but has committed serious human rights violations and acts illegally." He self-proclaimed himself president on the basis of elections designed by him and for him. He has to leave because he's tearing the country apart and he's going to keep tearing it apart. Time's run out; he's been cheating on the country for five years. And as tension grows in Venezuela, the daughters of Hugo Chávez, and other relatives of the country's leaders, boast of wealth, without any shame, Mr Martínez Zatón. Hugo Chávez's eldest daughter, María Gabriela Chávez, is estimated to have a fortune of $4.3 billion, and this 38-year-old lady is not known to any profession except the alternate ambassador of Venezuela to the UN, which gives her diplomatic immunity. And the children – children, forgiveness – of Nicolás Maduro, Yoswal and Walter Gavidia Flores, recently jumped to the headlines of the Madrid newspapers, because, in 18 nights at the Hotel Ritz, they spent 40,000 euros, the equivalent of the average monthly salary of 2,000 Venezuelans. If this is the Bolivarian Republic that Nicolás Maduro wants, then let's turn it off and let's go and, above all, poor, poor Simon Bolivar. Venezuela cannot continue this way, and it must quickly recover a democratic system for the sake of human rights, but above all to extract his society from mysticism, which is what we are asking for here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u84	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque Popular Groups, the half-correction signed by the Basque Socialists and Euzian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the supporters are 44; the opponents are 28; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u85	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. [[Applause]] Silence. Forth point on the theme list: "To collect the proposition as to the law of Parliament, concerning the neglect of the forms of labour which have injured the rights of the euscal workers. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mr. Casanova, to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u86	Hello, good morning again, good noon already. We are here to discuss the forms of work, because we have suffered different forms of labour in our country for the last few years, and I believe that the word "parate" is well chosen, because these reforms have finally been contrary to the interests and rights of the majority, so that we have suffered them. The leitmotiv of these reforms Three landmarks have been, three major reforms, the most important thing in 2010 was that PSOE put on, and the second one that PP started in 2012. In 2010, PSOE, by the form of labor, laid down the foundations of the centralization of collective negotiation, and limited the ability to arrange ourselves as a Basque, that the euscal workers and euscal unions had prevented the unions of a collective negotiation. This reform limited the right of negotiating our contract, and gave precedence to the contract of the state-wide contract, so that there are so many matters that we can't discuss and decide here, there's no way to sign the agreements here, and there's so many matters about which we can't decide here. In 2012, in the form of work made by PP, the one-sidedness, the one-sidedness of the company, and the one-sidedness of the company, had been strengthened by the disappearance of the figure of ultra-acivity. Until then, when a labor contract was finally completed, a new one still continued in force, which is called ultraactive. But with the disappearance of ultraactive activity, when the violence of the labor contract is over, companies have their hands free, respected by the minimum of negotiation or rights, to establish the conditions of their wants, and the protection of the previous contract disappears entirely. These two reforms produced serious and pernicious consequences: On the one hand, as has been said, the centralization of the relations of the work, and, on the other hand, the disappearance of the ultraactive activity. But these were not, in our opinion, the most negative consequences of these reforms, by giving the preference to treaties signed in the company, as is possible in enterprise to reduce and limit the terms of the labor agreements in the sector. They were also given new functions for a time's work, and the indemnization of compensations in the unjust streets descended from 45 days to 33, and from several other measures which increase the provisionalness. So it's a long balance, preventive, centralization, etc. The consequences are clear in us, because we believe that these reforms had been tested, partly because they had been introduced from Europe to increase the politics and to strengthen the power of the corporations. And thus we may say from this perspective, that if these reforms were made, in order to strengthen the power of corporations, and to reduce the conditions of labor, we must say, only in this feeling, that they have been successful, and that these consequences have been produced. The unemployment, in ours, is 10%, and some celebrate it as a success, but this is one of the highest rates between the world of Europe and the highly developed economy. They told us, of course, that these forms of work did not tell us what they were doing; they said, as an excuse, that the more flexible trade would be to create a job. And, as I said, employment has been created, but not by the form of work, but by the change of economic cycle. And we may conclude this: here employments have been created, but because employments have been created all around, and if more employments have been produced in the State, and even in the State, it is only because more employments have been destroyed before. But yet, here in the Basque Country, the rate of 10% is very high, very unacceptable, one of the highest among highly developed economics, and, if we look at young people's unemployment or long-lived unemployed, we are still leaders of this kind of negative rate in Europe. Even in the Basque Country, it's harder to sign the contract, and it's true there's been a recovery in the last year, but that's the fact that it's mostly thanks to the working people's struggle and the multiplication of their strikes and mutations. Nevertheless, at the present day fewer than half the workers of euscals have not the established and renewed employment agreement. The Basques have lost the capacity of buying, which means we're poor. Berri hau atzokoa da: "The Basque employees lose 566 euros of purchasing power per year". It is just one of the many informations in this regard, of the leaking of information that we are receiving in the sense of saying that Basque workers become poorer, that their wages lose purchasing power, that even by growing with the economy to 3%, wages not only do not grow, but do not recover what they lost in previous years and do not compensate for the effect of inflation. The temporary work, even in ours, is a third, namely, a third of all the workers, almost every third of them has a temporary work, which increases the prevention. The result is that, apart from the impossibility of carrying on the bits of projects, the multiplication of labor. Last year, the labor accident that created death was 30%, and most of these jobs happen to be just after entering the new job, as a result of experience, so that the rate of alternates is three-fold, that is, a person who gets a contract, he has to sign three times a year, three times a year, a man who has no fixed work, and that means alternately that it's a high rate, and a very high bonus. There's more than five of the workers at a time, 22% in general. Among women, the rate is much higher, and the rate of work supposes worse conditions of work, smaller works of work, and, in most cases, if not at all octuaries, it is almost everywhere not an option that is sought for, but only because it is found to compete with another activity. So it's natural that there should be the chief concern about the trade of labour among the Basques. I don't see it here (this isn't very full of dysentery, I'm going out of here often, but the chief concern for the citizen is the state of labor, the conditions of work. On December last year, the Deustobarometer was recognized, and that's where they used to tell us in eucaursion. that the chief concern is that the state of laboring for 34% is the chief question, and that is the first of all in this narrative of the most careful. We are also told that our fellow-citizens have in some measure lost some hope of improvement in one point. It is true that in this long and complicated crisis period of years things have been somewhat improved, but the citizens seem to think that this improvement is over. If you ask about the future, 75% says it'll be the same next year, 9% thinks we'll be better, and 10% will be worse. So there was little hope: bad situation and little hope. Hence two-thirds of the citizens of Esupal say that we are not yet able to say that we have left the crisis. These reforms have obtained these conclusions, and have produced the following results: that is to say, to be more competitive by the salary. For us, these forms of work, and the objects which lie behind these forms of work, are strangers, and we may say that they are strangers in a double sense: On the one hand, as they have taken it out of the Basque Country and outside the Basques, out of their will, they have taken it in Madrid. And they are strangers, too, because they are opposed to the interests of the workers who are willing to defend our groups, because they attack their interests. Strangers in double sense: because they are determined abroad, and have some interest in defending those who are not of service. And what we ask is that we have a power to decide on all these things here. We wish to decide here, which is the frame of the working conditions of the eumancipation of these Chambers to establish democraticly. This chamber, in some measure, is a indicator of the citizen's will. We believe that in this Chamber there must also be laws made about the working world. We want you to decide here, and the agents here are to decide here on the grounds of their negotiation process: the unions here and the patronials, according to the conditions and their productive structure here. And we want to decide here also in order that we may be able to make laws and laws for the majority here. We believe that, in the future, all these reflections, all these advances in the capacity to decide of this people, should be translated into a new political status, which would give the capacity of the citizens of this country to decide also in the field of labour relations, to decide in favour of the majority. But in the short term, we understand that there are other challenges and other issues that we must also face. And one of them, I think it should be the one that Euskal Herria Bildu's group proposes today. We propose to reject the labour reform, we propose to call for its repeal, we propose to clarify those negative aspects of the labour reform, and we propose that this decision be placed on the table of a Government that is currently assessing what decision to take in this regard. This is not the first time we have talked about labour reform in this House. The last time an agreement was reached on this was, precisely, at the request of the Euskal Herria Bildu group, in May 2017. But we think that it was time to bring this reflection back to the House, and to take the initiative again, for four main reasons: the first and the most obvious, we called for the repeal of the negative aspects of labour reform that are detrimental to the interests of workers, and those aspects have not been repealed. As we have said more than once, agreements are instruments for achieving things and, despite having that agreement, what we wanted to achieve has not been achieved. It is therefore appropriate to call again for the removal of those aspects of labour reform that are detrimental to the interests of workers and that unbalance labour relations. Another fundamental aspect is that we ask this from the previous government, and now there is a new government. Therefore, it is again relevant – as we have done on other occasions – reiterate a request that has been made to a government, when it is within the government or when there is a change of government. The third reason for bringing this issue here is that we are in time and are participating in a real debate that is taking place. It's been happening in the last few months. Obviously, when we brought this initiative we did not know that this government was going to be in the final leg of the legislature at the moment, but we are still in time because we are aware that in other important areas of the socio-economic sector too, the possibility of last-minute intervention and of making changes by decrees and decisions of the government is being considered, and we are therefore in time. And one last issue we wanted to address today is the definition of those aspects of labour reform that we consider to be harmful, because it is true that a generic complaint was made and that the generic repeal of those aspects of labour reform that have unbalanced relations was called for, but no specific mention was made of what they were, and we thought that the rejection at the end of ultraactivity, the centralization of collective bargaining, the measures that have promoted precariousness in the labour market and that have allowed unilaterality to the employer should be made clear. Horregatik pentsatzen genuine basela momenta eaiatu ginen aurrera ateratzen proposamen berri bat. It has not been possible and, sometimes, it is said that our group has vertigos, or that we want to be more left-wing than anyone else, or that elections are coming... Well, the other speakers in the rest of the groups are aware that we have tried to reach an agreement, that we have had a dialogue, but it has not been possible. It has not even been possible to put on the table a compromise offer, which I believe was, in political terms, perfectly consumable. I don't know if they were vertigo, they were called or what it was. But, in any case, what gives me the impression is that, on this issue, some – the Basque Nationalist Party – have decided with the portfolio, and others – Elkarrekin Podemos and the Socialist Party – have decided with the flag. And I'll explain myself. The Basque Nationalist Party talks a lot about deciding everything here; but, at the time of truth, I don't know if it's better for you than certain things are decided there. Because, when there are certain things he likes but they are unpopular, it is almost better than another load with the brown to sell the motorcycle to Basque public opinion, and so the Basque Nationalist Party is discharged from the responsibility of defending unfair labour reforms, but with which perhaps in the background it does not disagree as much as it says. In that case, they've decided with the wallet. And others – I believe the Socialist Party and Elkarrekin Podemos – have decided with the flag. They have decided with the Spanish flag, because they think that it is better to negotiate in Madrid, because it is the centralization and the denunciation of the centralization of labor relations that I think they did not want to subscribe very much. And knowing that a Basque framework of labour relations by the correlation of forces, both in the trade union and in the political sphere, can be much more favourable for never adopting legislation such as those adopted in Madrid, to defend in a more effective way the rights of workers, because they still prefer things to be decided in the state framework, because they fear that there may be a disintegration effect, if we make decisions about this kind of thing here. Therefore, one with the flag and the other with the wallet, and I would say that they have been identity decisions in both cases, because it is the most characteristic of each one's identity. Centralist nationalism in some cases, and the defence of interests or certain economic cases in the other. But this doesn't end here. As I have said before, we will return. Elections are called, a new government will be formed and we will try, perhaps more efficiently next time in order to do the previous work – at least with great determination – that a clear and clear agreement can be drawn from this House, that it calls for the abolition of those aspects of labour reform that are detrimental to the working majority of this country, that it defines what they are and that it is specific, that it is assertive and that it is capable of having a clear decision by this House, that I hope is consistent with the majority will of this society, that is to reject labour reform, but not in a generic way, not in a witness form, but in a way that allows such an operational rejection to be made by repealing that reform. If it's not possible this time, we'll try again next time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u87	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. This is the turn of the teams who have advanced the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u88	Yes, good morning. Mr. Casanova, although... I understand your final argument... I, even if I wanted the flag, can't; my flag is not official anywhere in Spain. My flag is the tricolor... But no, I don't share it. I don't think we've moved anything related to the identity when we don't sign an agreement with you. First of all, because once there was no agreement between you and PNV and the Socialist Party, both groups, yours and mine, in some way, we assumed that we each came with our initiative. In fact, yesterday I told you that the compromise that I had made to the PNV and the Socialist Party, I saw it as a good meeting point. I would have tried to deal with you some more on the subject of the implementing priorities of the conventions, because I have a certain discrepancy – which is not a total discrepancy, with the subject of centralization, but a certain discrepancy – and we could have reached an agreement without any problem, without any problem, on the basis of that initiative that you sent me yesterday afternoon by wasap, but when we had already given the fact, how good, that we each went with ours. Therefore, I am not moved by any flag, and in any case, when I or my group in certain areas of decision understand that they can be positive in a state, we do not do so because of an identity issue, we do so because we think that certain things can be better done in a co-participative way in the state in which we live, that we understand that it is a plurinational state, and where certain things, if this state were in addition or had a federal or confederal structure as there are states in the world, certain issues can be decided in a federal or confederal way, with the participation of all and different parties. But that was not the issue, and we do recognize the opportunity to come back with this issue that you have claimed, Mr Casanova, we certainly recognize it, because, indeed, as you said, of what you agreed in this House – in what we abstained from considering at that time insufficient – because nothing has been achieved at this time. We therefore believe that it is appropriate for you to bring the debate on the criticism of labour reforms and for this Parliament to reject labour reforms. And because, moreover, we do have a government, although it has a little time left, different from that at the time. I am not going to extend – I believe – the negative consequences of labour reforms. I share what the initiative has presented to us today; I share the absolutely negative consequences of labour reform, that of the People's Party and all those that have also been done by the Socialist Party since 2010 onwards. Absolutely negative consequences, which, in a very brief way, have brought us a new scenario, where the working conditions – and also living conditions – of the working class, which is the majority of the country and fundamentally or fundamentally of the people, of the women and men employed, have deteriorated and are in a much worse situation than before all these reforms that have been carried out. Labour reforms, moreover, which – as we have argued; at least I have supported in this rostrum on numerous occasions – were made with concrete objectives. I believe that the labour reforms that we have seen in the last decade, from 2010 onwards, have been effective labour reforms, I believe that this is the only thing I will agree with the People's Party, although for different reasons; they have been effective labour reforms, because they have achieved those objectives for those who were born, which was to degrade working conditions throughout the country and throughout the state. And putting the workers and their representatives, the unions, in a very complicated situation. That is, take away the tools that the workers had to defend their rights and to win new rights. And, in that sense, yes, the reforms have been effective, because that is what they have achieved, a new scenario; today, the working and living conditions of the workers are much worse than 10 years ago, and the unions have the much more degraded tools to be able to do their work and to be able to defend the working conditions. That's why we also think that today – in this case, if we are going to speak against labour reforms again – it would be up to us to act. And what I think is going to come out today, or at least the amendment tabled by the PNV and the Socialist Party, we believe that nothing concrete is going to happen. He rejects the Labour Reform of the People's Party, indeed – we agree – and says that the necessary changes must be made to put an end to the negative consequences of those reforms. But that's very ambiguous, and depending on who interprets it, you'll interpret that you have to do some things or other. That is why we, in our amendment, detail at least the most important issues that we believe need to be addressed, such as the recovery of the ultraactivity of collective agreements – I am not going to extend; but that is a fundamental tool for workers and workers; to make the prevalence of sectoral agreements the fundamental one, and that also solves the problem of the centralization of agreements throughout the State. And, of course, to put an end to all the measures that have favored unilaterality on the part of companies in decision-making (modification of working conditions, dismissals, etc.); where we had to negotiate before, now we have to report. That could be the summary of that unilaterality. These are things that could have been done in these eight months of government of the Socialist Party, of government of Pedro Sánchez, and they have not been done and elections have been called – we don't know, because now it seems to say the minister that we may meet tomorrow with some decrees that have made these eight months – to have to come running now in the discount time to draw decrees. These eight months should have worked to reverse those negative issues of labour reform, because the Socialist Party, first when it was in opposition, said that the labour reform of the People's Party had to be reversed. Moreover, Mr. Pedro Sánchez – if I don't have a bad memory, which can also be – said that there were issues of the PSOE's own labor reform that perhaps didn't have to be carried out. But then neither that of the PSOE nor that of the People's Party, then were the most regressive issues, only the most regressive, of the reform of the People's Party. All right, all right, and the United Coalition Podemos and Elkarrekin Podemos in Euskadi are going to find us there, because we know that, although insufficient, it is necessary to reverse those more regressive issues of the reforms of the People's Party. But in these eight months, nothing has been done. We reached an agreement: in the General State Budgets agreement, we included the issue of labour reform. It was explicitly said to "remove any of these issues", and it was said which ones before the end of 2018. It has not been done, and now in the discount time we do not know what decree will be found tomorrow. Of course, those decrees that Mr. Pedro Sánchez can take out as an electoral campaign, which then accuse us of using the stands to campaign, are not negotiating with anyone at all. With the United Group We can, of course, until yesterday they were not negotiating them. With the unions, a meeting was convened on Tuesday the ministry, and they cancelled the meeting; the ministry cancelled the meeting. We think that the unions that have been mobilizing strongly this month and that have told the government "you can't leave without touching the labor reforms", are the only reason, together with the opportunity for an electoral message, that they can move Mr. Pedro Sánchez, in the discount time, to help with the labor reform. Of course, if he does, we'll be there. But we think that the Socialist Party, in these eight months, has not fulfilled: it has not fulfilled the agreement it had with us, it has not fulfilled the word it had with the unions, and it has not complied with the workers, who, when they were in opposition, told them that it would repeal the labor reform, and it has had eight months to get their hands on it and has not done so. We are therefore going to keep our amendment as a whole today, because we believe that it is indeed appropriate for this Parliament to reject labour reforms again, and also because we believe that, since we do, we have to do so by saying the most important issues to be removed, to be touched upon, from those labour reforms. And because I hope that, in the future, we will be able to carry out the counter-reform work, which has been in need of the Workers' Statute for many years, because 90% of the times it has been reformulated has been against the workers and the workers. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u89	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u90	I'm getting water today. Mr Hernandez, there has been a moment of your intervention that I was afraid of: I said, let me see if you will not agree that, even at a discount time, there are decrees that go in a certain line. Then you've made it clear to me, and you've made me more calm, so I'm going to drink water... But I'm going to recommend, before I intervene again in the second round, because I was giving you time, that you Google the statements that Mr. Unai Sordo has made regarding what they were entertained in these eight months. Ask yourself about the meetings of the social dialogue table, which are, of course, the basis for a legislative reform in the field of labour in the State. It's just that this isn't a one or two thing they decide. Do you know it's a tripartite? You know what tripartite bargaining is, don't you? She knows it: unions, employers and government, and from there, well. Read it, it's easy. Mr Casanova, when I read the justification for your amendment and when I got to the end of it I saw the date, I said, because something doesn't add up: here's something weird between the justification and this that puts down here from "January 2019". You say, in the motivation, to present the initiative that we are debating today, that the labor reforms carried out in the Spanish state in recent years have ended the balance of labor relations and that workers have seen their ability to negotiate their working conditions reduced. I stopped at that point, at that point, as you have done, and I thought: go, but if this is what the Councillor of Labour and Justice, Mrs. San José, has already told you, I will quote you textually. It says: "Wrong decisions have been taken at the state and European level, which have caused workers to lose some of their working conditions; rights cuts have been chosen, and this has directly affected employment, wages and the core of collective bargaining." Mr. Casanova, I'm talking to you about 2017, that is, too long for this to be the reason for your initiative. Maximum if, as you and I and the rest of the Members of this House know, in 2017 we discussed the situation of collective bargaining and reached an agreement, a valuable agreement, from my point of view, between our groups, between Euskal Herria Bildu, between the Socialist Party, the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, which, by the way, you followed in your initiative. But here it is that, despite the agreement adopted, EH Bildu believes that it needs to be reviewed, and the truth is not that it is the first time he proposes it to us because you also did it in December 2017, just seven months after you approved that agreement. I reviewed the intervention and told you what my suspicions were about why you wanted to do that. But what we think is pilgrim, sincerely very pilgrim, is that in January 2019 we intend to justify the adoption of a new agreement, because, according to you, and you have put it and you have said it in the rostrum, "there has been a change of government in Spain as a result of a motion of censure". Holder of yesterday, yesterday, the holder is yesterday, change of government by motion of censure. It's February 2019, January when you were writing. And that is already open in Madrid, he said, in the Congress of Deputies, the debate about the modification of the labor reform. All this justifies your proposal. Man, Mr. Casanova, it's not that it's open, it's that they close next week. I mean, anyway... So you have to understand me when I tell you that there I began to suspect that there must be some interest and that I was escaping so that, on the basis of these events that you were justifying me, you would present me with this initiative. Look, Mr Casanova, you and I know that, with nuances, we share the analysis of the situation of collective bargaining, which has, it is true, brought about a substantial change in the model of labour relations that we had up to now. A diagnosis that you and I know we share with the unions as well. That there has been a change, which has been aimed at causing a devaluation of wages, at changing the structure of the model of negotiation, of income distribution and of power in socio-occupational relations. It is true: the loss of the ultra-activity of the agreements, giving preference to the company agreement over the sector, and the clauses of non-application, what they have done has been to break the negotiating balance and have given greater power to the entrepreneur, who was already the strongest part of the employment relationship. I have told you in this rostrum on several occasions, but I repeat: the labor reform turned our labour market like a sock, deregulated it and imposed the law of the strongest, unbalanced relations in favor of employers, a power besides which employers are undoubtedly using to hinder or even prevent the achievement of new agreements. But I also repeat to you, as I have done on the other occasions on which this debate has been brought, that in order to deal with this situation two, two exclusively, are the essential premises: one, unity of trade union action, and two, a legislative change that reverses the situation, restores the balance, that is, that the labour reform is reversed. First of all, Mr Casanova, you know it, it is up to the unions, and we are already asking you and I in that agreement; we are asking you. The second is for our colleagues in the Congress of Deputies, and we have also asked them; in that agreement, you and I, we also ask them to do so. What's more, you and I know, or should we know, that that's what you've been busy with these last few months. And he knows that, despite the very few days left for the end of the Spanish legislature, the Socialist Government of Pedro Sánchez has announced that it will use the way of the decree to approve measures on this subject, in particular four: the introduction in companies of a register of the working hours of its workers; the recovery of the ultraactivity of the agreements; the prevalence of the sectoral agreement on the one of the enterprises; and the modification of the subcontracts to improve the working conditions of the subcontracted workers. And it is true, I already know that this is not 100% of what was asked, it is not 100% of the objective, but I also know, and I hope that you too, that these amendments are in the right direction. That is why my fear when Mr Jon Hernández was a little critical that this route could be used. Therefore, if the objective is to reverse labour reform, what I believe we cannot do, and I have repeated it to you from this House on several occasions, is to devalue the agreements that this Parliament has and to consider that they have a deadline, bringing about the renewal of agreements that already exist, that are already adopted, that are being taken into account by our colleagues in the Congress of Deputies. Because in that, Mr Casanova, you will not find us; you will not find the Socialist Party. Now, now, Mr Casanova, if the important thing about your proposal was what appeared within 10 minutes of you starting your speech, in points 3, 4 and 5, and you already know what I mean, that line of argument which is for you priority, which I have already told you on other occasions, and which stands in a fallacy, that you also repeat to us over and over again, and which goes as well as basically by the theme or motto of "Euskadi's independence would be the panacea, everything would fix it, everything, with the ability to decide here everything would be perfect"... Well, you know perfectly well that you don't have to work hard to convince me of it, because you're never going to get it, so it hasn't been possible to reach a transactional with you. And he knows. But if, moreover, when we spoke on the phone or when we were on this subject, we knew where the gap might be. If the goal really was the other one because we could leave it. Mr Casanova, you know that the Socialists – I have told you, and I am thinking of repeating it; I am not going to tire of it – will continue to defend that in Euskadi we already have effective tools to develop a framework of own labour relations, a model of collective bargaining with specific characteristics, tools that are effective, but that in order to be useful they have to be used, they have to be used. And that is what we Socialists strive to do every day: to facilitate places of encounter and permanent dialogue, to encourage the opening of avenues for concertation in order to achieve the objective that in Basque every worker can benefit and be protected by its own regulation, which would be the one that would give it a collective agreement signed and applicable in this autonomous community. You and I know, Mr Casanova, that since 2017, since January, we have had a necessary starting point for this, the famous structure agreement that was signed by all the unions and employers, a starting point that is slowing to fill in with content, but you and I know that we cannot do that, we cannot fill that structure agreement with content. This can only be done by the protagonists of the same, who are trade unions and employers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u92	Thank you, Madame, at the head of the table; the chief physician, all the members of the legislature, all the good noontides. The other day I was reviewing the video of the debate we were holding on this issue in December 2017, after the debate in May 2017. Today I am drawn to the tone that I myself used in addressing you, Mr Casanova; at the end of the debate, I said to you: "You know what we should adopt, paraphrasing Mrs Gorospe, who is here today, who said it in a previous speech, is something like this, as Parliament urges Parliament itself and its parliamentary groups to respect the agreements adopted and not continually raise the same debates". Reuben, ye shall stand. We are again debating this initiative, not because it seems to me to be of little importance, but because it has been reiterated once again in relation to this initiative, to which you have given the title of 'annulment of labour reforms which have undermined the rights of Basque workers'. Amendment Mr Hernández – I apologize, because I am going to focus more on the issue raised by Mr Casanova – and we also amend Mrs Castelo and I, although I would say that ours is a reference amendment, which is not in the Rules of Procedure, but a reference amendment, because, Mr Hernández, it is ours; it is concrete in the three points of the agreement of May 2017. To cement your initiative, Mr. Casanova, you carry out an analysis in your justification, and I want to acknowledge – now, I'm just going to say a positive thing to you, you're not listening to me – I want to acknowledge your work, although, as I have commented, a little recurring. I can see that to a large extent I agree with you – to a large extent, not in everything – and, as that Anglo-Saxon aphorism says, "the devil hides himself in the details"; the truth is I don't know who the devil will be here either. Based on the outline of your justification, I want to argue my position. Many labour reforms have been introduced in the State legal system since 1977 in October; then in December of 79; January of 80; June of 81; February of 83; October of 84; April of 92; in total, 19. A job reform every two and a half years, until today. We, over each and every one of them, have had opinion and position. There have been some, few, such as the honorable 1980 exception, which seemed good to us, but most of us have considered them reforms in the past. In any case, in all of them we have tried to influence, more or less successfully, but always with the same compass, the Basque working reality, and we have always sought to improve that working reality. You focus on your analysis on the labor reforms of 10, 10-11, that of the government of Rodriguez Zapatero, and that of 12, that of the government of Rajoy; I will also focus on them. I think they are substantially different, difference between something that is not good and something that is very bad. They are also different in the form, in the contents, in the harmful impacts. Our position on the 10-11 labour reform. We recorded a total of 26 amendments to the text proposed by the Spanish Government; after studying them, we would certainly present a similar battery today. With these amendments, we try to adapt the reform to the specific characteristics of the Basque economy, a more advanced economy, with a clear industrial and technological accent, in which the added value of its workers has an important weight. The amendments also responded to the need to adapt labour legislation to an increasingly changing economy, which has to face constantly new challenges and which rests on a uniqueness linked to science, technology, R & D+i and value added. Amendments that are a clear bet to strengthen labour rights, those. Citing our Member in that debate, it has been possible to avoid the absolute regularisation which involved the liquidation of the axiological foundations, of the philosophical foundations, which legitimise the very existence of this sector of the legal order. And it has been corrected because there has been some parliamentaryism, right. "Will this reform be used," said Emilio Olabarria, "to prevent the increase in unemployment? It's doubtful. Without consultation, without the support and if the complicity of the social partners, nothing here envisaged can be brought to reality." Our position on the 2012 labour reform. We believe that this perverted collective bargaining as a key to the configuration of labour relations – we do not hide ourselves, Mr Casanova, we say so – by sliding to business representation negotiating and imposing powers that unbalanced the systems of collective agreement, focusing primarily on the possibility of the employer to inapply or take off the agreement very relevant working conditions (day, schedule, remuneration, voluntary improvements in the protective action of Social Security, etc.). Another power that unbalances the equality of the negotiating parties is the attribution of the hegemony, above all others, of the collective agreement in the corporate sphere, which makes it possible to modify workers' rights to a worse extent. In our view, the validation of that Royal Decree, 3/2012, of Urgent Measures for Labour Reform, transforms labour law, which must have a bilateral character, into a sector of the legal order with a unilateral character. We also consider that it clearly weakened article 37 and, through it, article 7 of the Constitution itself. On 8 March 2012, our parliamentary group opposed the validation of this decree law. Today, we have the same position as we had with regard to these two labour reforms, the same, so that the object of pursuing their initiative, cancelling them, or more specifically urging the Government of the State to cancel them, does not give us any difficulty; in fact, we have already signed, with you signed, an agreement to that effect. But that agreement of 25 May goes far beyond what you propose today; I do not understand it. We reject the reform, we urge to repeal the rules that have devalued working conditions, but with the aim of establishing a model of labour relations that guarantees balance, and it is not a witness agreement. I believe that this agreement is much more ambitious than today's 'annular'; it is ambitious, it is not left to be annulled, by typexing the rules that have perverted the scope of labour law; it is not multiplied by zero, it is necessary to cover the gap, the regulatory gap. Do politics. He used to say that the devil hides himself in the details. I'd like to re-examine some details. It describes us in its justification a reality, the Basque social reality. He says and I quote: "And we can say, unfortunately, that these reforms have achieved their objectives." The details... I would tell you my reality: unfortunately, these reforms have achieved in part their objectives, in part. Undoubtedly, after the labor reforms, especially those of the 12th, a new reality appears; we face risks, and determine them well; we determine them equally: statehood, ultraactivity, prioritization of company agreements... Okay, but I'm asking you: did those new rules that appeared, basically in the 12th, automatically become, have they become, like, real materialization? You say yes; I say in part, unfortunately, in part. And you have to take care of some details. And I was talking before the possibility, the possibility of the company doing this, the possibility of the company. Has the Basque company behaved this way in general? It has not done so on a general basis. Details, other details... The risk of falling into corporate agreements, you said, the risk of... And how is that risk overcome? How is the risk of falling into company agreements overcome? Sectoral and autonomous agreements are overcome by promoting them. Details, but there are photos, like one I have here that says: man, how the unions have behaved or what photos they took before and after the reform according to their representativeness and coverage rate. Coverage rate, which is the protection they give in general. Look at the picture, just like someone would have to explain this picture, just like someone would have to explain... No, but you don't see the picture, but you know what I'm talking about perfectly. Someone would have to explain this picture to us anyway. The details... The devil is in the details; someone should explain it. We have tabled an amendment to your initiative, unlike what happened in December, and we are against your text, the text that is before us, because it is, we understand, a distortion of a good agreement and a devaluation of the negotiating will of this House. With this position, I consider the agreement of 25 May to be more alive than ever, and I endorse that text, which rejects and urges to repeal the labour reform, which pursues stable and high-quality employment, and which promotes collective bargaining since the pact of 17 January, to which Mrs Castelo referred, and from the priority of the Basque area of negotiation. It is a clear and clear agreement and you, Mr. Casanova, look at it. 55 supports here that day, 55 supports. Today, with a much less ambitious approach than that, 18. The excuses to the wallets, the flags, well, really, they seem to me a little, no more... We re-claim that text, which, by the way, as it said, bears its signature and which gained all that support. We re-claim that text, through which we got – and I quote you, I quote you again – "to reach a good agreement and send a positive message to the entire Basque opposition." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. A team that hasn't run any corrections, the Basque Popular. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u94	Jaunak. Thank you very much, Madam President; members of the Government, good morning, again. Mr Casanova, Mr Hernández, I was surprised today, sadly also; sadly, because you are filled with your mouths when we talk about labor matters, you are filled with the word "agreement": social agreements must always be backed by political majorities, social agreements must be backed by trade union majorities. And both have gone up to this rostrum to ask that the Government of Spain repeal the labor reform of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Directly... That is to say, they are asking a government that is in office, which has two or three days left, two or three televisions, to dissolve the Courts, to issue a decree repealing a labour reform and imposing something new, which has not been agreed with any political party, with no parliamentary majority, which will not be able to be debated in Parliament and which does not have the social support of the workers' representatives, who are the trade unions to which, as you said, Mr Hernández gave them the floor this week, so that they will not be able to negotiate anything or give their opinion on these possible reforms, which perhaps by decree tomorrow will be approved by the Council of Ministers. We all remember and heard the President of the Government on his other vital facet, before he was President of the Government, saying that the first thing he was going to do when he arrived in La Moncloa was labor reform, because it was one of the great evils that this country had. And, in that sense, you were urged here in May 2017, in that debate to which you referred, Mr Casanova, that this majority was to be achieved and that a work counter-reform or new labour legislation applicable to these times had to be made, to alleviate the negative effects that the previous ones had had. The truth is that you, all of you – I mean all your political groups in Madrid – supported a change of government. And since the new government took office, they have not agreed to promote that legal reform – all together or some of the groups in particular – just to see how it was discussed, I refer to a specific legal text. I mean, not just a GNP that can be discussed by saying "it would have to change this." No, we are the competent; you have the majority, and you have done nothing. And today they go back to the rostrum, to say that "we would have to change this and we have to do it" and we tasked a government practically in office, in a matter of days, completely bypassing the dialogue with the representatives of the employers, with the representatives of the workers, the social dialogue that they constantly ask from this rostrum. I honestly think it's a complete dislate. That sounds crazy to me. You, Mr Casanova, once again tell us about the need to have an own framework of labour relations. Good. Yeah. That seems to me to be a repetitive speech, because you do it all the time, and with which I disagree. And I have explained it many times; I have tried to explain our point of view: I do not think that the decisions of the labour relations framework should be made here at this time; because, look, the representatives of the workers do not recognize the representatives of the employers; they say that they are not legitimate, that they are not elected and that they do not sit down and negotiate with those representatives of the employers. The workers' representatives strongly criticize the Government, because it does not have them to make decisions in which all the members of the Social Dialogue Bureau, a table that is half empty and barely works, precisely because those workers' representatives do not want to sit. What does the government say? That is that the unions want to do politics and do not want to defend workers' rights. Which means we're running into a time bomb. We are going to bring all the normative capacity here for that social dialogue, so that some do not recognize each other and do not reach any kind of agreement whatsoever. That's the reality. In that situation, Mr Casanova, I have always told you that I understand that we do not have to reduce, to this impossibility of agreement, the decisions that affect our companies and our workers, workers who, thanks to this job reform, have found a job. Look, 3.5 million jobs were destroyed. Much of these jobs have recovered. Mr Hernández, you say that this was an effective reform because what you wanted was to degrade the conditions of the workers. If there is something that really degrades a worker's condition, it is to lose his own status as a worker. It's being an unemployed person. That's the worst thing that can happen to a worker. Want to work and not be able to do it. Some of the 3.5 million jobs lost at that time have already been recovered. Today, there are more indefinite contracts than then. Today, the temporality, which is very high – which I don't say no to you – has been reduced with respect to those 2011 data. Women's employment has grown to levels we've never had before. Social security membership levels are growing at a good rate, until the new Socialist Government has arrived and the employment data are there; we have seen them, we have discussed them. We are going to talk about them over the next few months, and we have all taken our hands to our heads, because these data are not positive, Mr Hernández. Then, that change has not been positive for the workers, from my point of view. And I'm talking about data, only data. In 2017, Mr Casanova told me that if jobs were being created, if the average wage of the workers was increasing, that if the temporality was reduced it was not because of the policies carried out in the field of labour by the People's Party, but because of the march of the European economy. And it is true that we had lost almost 10% of our GDP and, logically, wages had to fall. But wages were beginning to recover. The reality, Mr Casanova – and time gives me reason and that is why I make this comment – is that, when there has been a different government in Spain, the rate of growth has fallen, job creation has fallen, and job insecurity has risen. That's the reality. And there have been no fundamental changes in Europe. The fundamental changes have taken place in the Congress of Deputies in Madrid, with a motion of censure that all its groups promoted and that is leading us to minors, for the time being, growth rates. That is why I insist that it seems to me a real disslate to urge a government in office to reform or make a new labor reform, when it is not going to be possible to debate in the Congress of Deputies and it is not going to be able to agree with the social representatives, which is where all these negotiations must be carried out. That is why we will vote against their initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the day's answers, the representative of EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u96	Senor Syria. April 2018. The Basque Parliament, with the votes among others of its parliamentary group, calls on the Government of the State to submit, within six months, a timetable for the completion of the outstanding transfers of the Statute. June 2018. The Basque Parliament, with the votes of its group, among others, asks the central government, a calendar within six months, blah, blah, blah... Exactly the same thing. What's changed? That the government has changed, indeed. One thing is to ask one thing from a government, and another is to have a different government and to ask the same thing again from a different government. See if it changes that the first government gave the silent answer and the second triggered a process, that you will know how it will culminate, but at least charged with receipt and started moving. Therefore, it makes sense to ask the same thing, if circumstances have changed. And you and your group have been involved, precisely at other times, in this. Look, Mrs Castelo, today you – we are talking about exploitation and precariousness – are an example; your group is exploiting it a little bit, you are expressing it well. I don't know – the Justice Advisor is here – whether she will have to take letters on the matter... But the agreements do not have an expiry date, the agreements of this Parliament. The agreements of this Parliament, from my humble point of view, are an objective. That's where the discrepancy is. When I think, naive of me, that, when an agreement is made, it is to get what is reflected in that agreement. It is the same debate that we have had before. That does not mean reaching an agreement and saying how happy we are with the agreement so cool that we have left. When we ask for an agreement to repeal labour reform, and that reform has not been repealed, what we have to assess is how to take a step further to meet the objectives of the agreement, unless you understand that agreements are an end in themselves. No, no... Agreements are a mechanism for transforming things and, if an agreement has not fulfilled its function, logically, we must seek to renew that agreement, to push that agreement, to modify that agreement, to do anything to ensure that it is fulfilled. Because I do not want to reach an agreement with you on the repeal of labour reform. What I want is for labour reform to be repealed. But it's not that I want it, it's that your own party says it wants it. But it is not that I say it now, or it is not as the representative of the People's Party previously said, that the current president said it in his previous life, that in 2011, the government, on the same day that it was approving one of the reforms to which we refer, said: "The government approves a labor reform that promises to repeal". 2011 [[Show and read some papers]] - No, no, no, And the journalist himself said "low enthusiasm." Logically. Of course, if the day you're approving you say that when the situation changes, you're going to repeal it... But the problem is that it has not been repealed. The problem is that it has not been repealed. And you have looked, you have done a deep exercise in hermeneutics, in the proposal of Euskal Herria Bildu, and, thanks to that analysis, you have come to the conclusion that I am an independentist. All right, I could have told you. I think there was no doubt about it. But, in today's proposal, do not come to me to exaggerate things, like that Senator of the PP who the other day said that one more transfer and the inequality between the Spaniards increases. Man, because I'm asking for a Basque framework of labor relations, I'm not asking for independence, which I'm also asking for in other spaces. It was not today's debate. What I am trying to put to you today is that, as I denounced your precarious situation in the parliamentary group, there is also a precarious situation among the majority to which you have referred, the majority of the motion of censure, that motion which stands just-just and by the hair, and that we will see what happens after the elections. And that majority, that there is that majority in Madrid or that there is another majority, what will mean is that the Basque citizens of this country have or more or less rights in the field of work, because here the rights, as long as we continue to depend on the Spanish state, are rights to take and put, depending on who is in the government, take them away or put them: abortion, ultraactivity... And the rights to take and put, in the end, end up being rights of pin and put; that is, rights of toy, which one day are worth and another day are not worth. And here, in this House, and that is what I am referring to with the Basque framework of labour relations and with regulating labour legislation here, most of the motion of censure does not have a precarious majority, it has a 90% majority. Nor am I going to say that we are here to throw rockets or make revolution, but, of course, and with regard to sensitivity to labour rights, here is a much more favourable structural framework than in the Spanish State, to legislate for the rights of workers. And if you refuse that, which is not independence, but decide here to have a decision framework more favourable to the rights of workers, you are not doing so because you are thinking of those rights precisely, but because you are thinking of preserving the unity of the State. I come to the end and, well, the chapter of negotiation is always a bit boring. If the problem has been a misunderstanding, I have to say to Mr Hernández that I assumed that you in the area of centralisation did not want to get involved and, for me, it was a fundamental issue. If it was a misunderstanding, next time there won't be that misunderstanding. I have already told you that I am not going to make a totem of any word: if we agree on the content, next time I will try to do it better and also to reach an agreement, but it gave me the impression that for you it was a red line and that, therefore, there was no possibility there. So, we ask again... It is a debate; you too have discovered that the debate is underway. No, I already knew that in January, what happens is that what this Parliament is talking about is that it should be an active part of this debate that is going on at this very moment, and, when the government is going to be discussing this issue tomorrow, or next week, within the dossier, it will have, even if only on a symbolic basis, an appeal from the majority of this House, which will say to you: listen, you have some commitments: this country, Euskal Herria, the Basque Country or this part of Euskal Herria asks you, for the benefit of the workers, to repeal this, this, this and this. And that was the contribution we wanted to make, and precisely the fact that the debate is in progress gives it a plus and does not take away any legitimacy, but makes it even more timely. Unfortunately, you have preferred not to commit to asking for anything concrete, and to say that in Madrid you decide, but, well, that is not our way of looking at things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u97	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u98	Sí. Of course, it seemed to us that it was important that we should be concrete, and I agree with that last part, which Mr Casanova says: To say today not only that we want to repeal labour reform, but above all to point out what needs to be changed from labour reform, or rather, for us what needs to be changed from the Workers' Statute. And therefore, yes, it seems to us that the amendment tabled by the PNV and the Socialist Party is inconcrete... It's inconcrete, sir, Aiartza. You say it is not inconcrete because it refers to another previous agreement. That previous agreement, which has three points, on labour reform, on labour reform only one refers to, and what it says is exactly the same as it says in its amendment today; yes, what I said earlier in the previous intervention: not to labour reform, and we are going to eliminate the most harmful part of labour reform. Do you think that's concrete? Sounds good to me; very respectable. I don't think that's concrete. We have presented an initiative where we say what specific issues are the most important; moreover, it is not a question of ceilings, because I would repeal all the labour reform... What are the fundamental issues that need to be changed? And yes, although Mrs. Castelo was scared because she thought we were saying something else, yes, we, we are not the only ones, so the unions have also said – that is what appears in Google when you are looking for "Unai Sordo, Workers' Commissions", which you have recommended to me, and I am very good people I have listened to you –; what they are asking the government to do is to do so now, because it has not done so before, and now it is only left to do so now by decree, and because it was a promise, and because he promised it when he was not in the government. Moreover, the PSOE promised that it would repeal the Labour Reform of the People's Party, and it has not, and it has not; and you are not shielded in the negotiations and at the tripartite tables. He hasn't done it because they're afraid of the employer, he hasn't done it because the employer pressed from the zero minute, because it's the same employer who, when they wanted to start the labor reforms, told us that it was good enough to win so much, that we had to get used to winning less and working more. It was the same employer who told us that a job could not be renounced, even in Lapland. That same employer is the one who has pressed for no changes in the working environment when the Socialist Party came to the government. Because I do not share what you have said, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo; the worst thing that can happen to a worker, and believe me that I am, even though I am now working as a parliamentarian, is not to lose the job; the workers have dignity, and I prefer to lose the job to have such a miserable job that their conditions are unworthy. And I am convinced that most workers, even if we need that job to live, have dignity and we would rather lose the job. I'm convinced! That's why it's not the worst, but it's not a disjunctive. It is not a question, as the People's Party points out, of labour reforms to end unemployment. There is no need to choose between low unemployment rates and good working conditions. And that is what the labour reforms of recent years are proposing; they change precarious jobs, that is, jobs with more or less decent conditions, for precarious jobs. And we have said this more than once: this is more or less easy, when there are favourable economic circumstances, to create, yes, jobs, because there is a constant rotation. I can sign 14-15 contracts in a year or more. Have 14-15 jobs been created? No, no, No, no, And all the more precarious. So, to our group, it seems to us that... If it's in discount time and they're not just cosmetic changes, I'm sure the outgoing government will find the support of my colleagues in the Confederal Group of Unidad Podemos. Tomorrow, I don't know what we're gonna find. But I am also convinced that the Socialist Party has been shaking its legs. His legs trembled when we signed an agreement related to the General Budgets of the State and his legs have now trembled. It has the pressure of the unions behind it and a few elections in a short time and, therefore, the Socialist Party tomorrow will draw up that series of decrees, which we do not know exactly what they are going to be. Mrs Castelo, of course, has more information than I do, because the Socialist Party is not talking to us. With the unions, so important that it's the tripartite table, he's not talking, and that's why they're asking him to do something before he leaves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u99	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u100	There's nothing better than suffering a situation to know and be able to defend it, is there? It's a question. I have no more information, Mr Hernández, but I do have much more confidence than you in the Socialist government of Pedro Sánchez, much more confidence. I have already told you, on the first item on the agenda, that you are very suspicious; everything seems to be prepared and so on. I have absolute confidence that it will not be a cosmetic change or call it a cosmetic change; but, if you regain the ultraactivity of the conventions, it will seem to me enough, at least. I have not discovered, Mr Casanova, that you are an independentist, as I did not discover the other day with Mrs Goirizelaia, what I have come to tell you and try to explain is that you dye with that independentist halo, putting it ahead, what are the social interests of people. Because I am not going for the unity of Spain; you are there wrong, and I told you the last time and I am going to repeat it now: I come in defense of the equality of all workers, be Basques, Catalans, Galicians, Andalusians, extremists... I don't care; I think they have to have the same equal rights and protection, whether they're here or there. I therefore believe that the scope of decision in the Congress of Deputies is correct for this. And the truth is, dialogue in the Social Dialogue Bureau has not been missed at any time; it is a tripartite dialogue, in which, it is true, there are difficulties in reaching a government, employers and trade unions agreement, but that is what is at stake. Now, it is also true that trying, you and I, who are parliamentarians, to say that the reform of the Workers' Statute, which is a major reform – we are not talking about any kind of text – can be carried out in a consensual way and with tripartite dialogue in eight months of parliamentary term, for man, we would have made it look at us, because, with rules of much less magnitude, as can be the law of the public sector or the law of transparency, because we have been year and peak. So, finally, and that's where we're directly involved, so, finally, we don't have to exaggerate, we don't have to manipulate information, we don't have to manipulate anything. And if there is something that seems to me to be a dislate, which is a beautiful word that Mr Ruiz de Arbulo used, because it was precisely the labor reforms that the People's Party did. But the most dislatable thing is that you are still able to come down to this rostrum and say that more jobs have been created since that reform. You have not created jobs; you have created substations of work. And they would just have to go through the street to find out what conditions and quality of employment workers are currently in. How difficult they are to reach the end of the month, even though they work 8 months. And how, with those tools that you gave to the employer, there are people who have to work a full Jordanian for something that you and I would surely not be willing to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u102	Thank you, Your Honor, President. There is something very positive in today's debate, and I thought I was going to be much less encouraged by repetition, not interesting. However, in this one it has been animated and that is tremendously positive, and I love that we talk about the agreement of 25 May 2017. That is the good thing about today's debate, Mr Casanova, that we should talk about that. Mr Hernandez, I disagree. Discretion. What do you mean, it's not concrete? And how is it that only the first point refers to labour reform? To the repeal of labour reform, to the general part. The second point, in which the collective bargaining process involves an increase in wages, which was the specific subject of that debate. Isn't that part of the job reform? Man. Isn't that part of the disengagement approach? Please. And the third point. The interprofessional agreement. Approaches related to the starting point. I really... In any case, Mr. Casanova said that he would bring him back. Okay, great. Anyway, I think there is an important concept, which is to move forward with the agreement. On the basis of an agreement, move forward, and move forward in content. And does this agreement of 25 May have no chance of moving forward on content? Why not? Yeah. Above all, the third point. Others too. But, above all, the third point. Moving on in content. Why don't we use this base? And move forward in agglutinating to other wills. Of course, what you have done today is not to move forward, because you have put forward a text, in my opinion, far less ambitious than this one, and have managed to bring much less together. Man, if that's moving forward. Of course, it's everyone else's fault, isn't it? We've seen it clearly today. I am not going to analyse this issue much further. But I'm worried about something. I'm worried, because I have the feeling that you, and when you talk about time, "It's been time and it's time..." When you talk about time, you don't remember the time that passed between the agreement of May 25 and a reaction that took place on May 30. And I believe that this agreement gives you a problem in that regard. In a reaction that took place on May 30, and that called this agreement irrelevant. With which, for you this agreement is no longer the basis... That is why I also like this agreement to be in this debate today. I'd worry if it were, because it's not irrelevant. It's not irrelevant! Well, in any case, we will continue in our perseverance. We will continue in our perseverance; what I have told you, because these games will be played again, here and in other cameras will be played again. And we will continue in that perseverance. In Congress, the average is – we talked about it before or told it before – two and a half years for reform. I mean, they'll come; a decree may come – I don't know; I don't have that crystal ball – but they'll come. And when they arrive, or when they arrive, here we will be in agreements like this. And when they arrive, where the reforms arrive, at that moment we will be there. See you there. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u103	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. And finally, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo, representative of the Basque Potula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Hernández, I obviously do not come here to say to this rostrum that the situation on the labour market is fantastic, and that all the workers who want to work can do so, and above all in conditions that would never ask for improvement. No, that from my group we have defended on many occasions. Is there a need to change labour issues? Of course, we have to change labour issues, but precariousness is better now, despite being very high, than it was before the crisis. The number of indefinite workers is higher today than in 2007; time has fallen considerably since then. It is true that, in the middle of the crisis, thanks to the Socialist Government, there was a much lower rate of temporaryity, but it was because most of the temporary workers had gone to the streets, lost their jobs, and that is almost 3.5 million jobs. We argue that improvements must be made, but improvements must be made consciously, presented a project, debating it with the social partners and taking it to the Congress of Deputies, and not urging today that in the minute of discount someone come and transform the labor market by decree. And that intention, which you all had when you voted this agreement here in 2017, has diluted over time. That is, the agreement you had reached in 2017 was an agreement against the Rajoy government, and you all agreed again for Mr Rajoy to leave the government, and you put a government president. And from that moment on, we all forgot about labour reform; everyone has forgotten, and no one has done anything, no one has registered a single initiative, no one has asked that government to do anything in the Congress of Deputies, of course I mean. No one has asked you to do anything, no one has asked the Government to resume that labour reform that they were calling for from the opposition, and the truth is that that period of government, which you all pushed forward, has been blown away by members of the Government. And since they've been flying, they haven't had time to do anything. And they may now do so in the discount minute at the Council of Ministers tomorrow: a labor reform without the representatives of the workers, without the representatives of employers, of employers, without any of the political parties present in the parliamentary arc, rather than those who support the government, to which they have probably not even called. That is why we stand firm in the position we had in 2017, and we will vote against the initiatives, although I see that today you have not even managed to reach an agreement between you to move the initiative forward.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u105	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we shall put the original text of the proposition of EHGGGGGG, as a parlamentary group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the supporters are 17; the opponents are 44; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u106	So, not allowed original text. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the supporters are 11. The opposites are 44; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 17.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u107	So, it's not supposed to be a full-correction of Podemos together. And in the end, the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists vote for the total correction signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the suffrages given at the meeting are 72; the supporters 35; the opponents are 9; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u108	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together, concerning the rights of women and women who have the function of divergence. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Guanche, representing the Podemos group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u109	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good guests, all good afternoons, and, above all, a thousand thanks to be here. Today we bring an initiative that has been built from the work of women with functional diversity, from different fields and organizations, who have been developing and putting on the agenda...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u110	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u111	... of the institutions and organizations on this whole subject. All this accumulated work has been very present, of course, in the elaboration of our proposal, in the process of the groups, to reach the agreement they have on their tables, and they will be present, thanks to the effort of this house, also on the path that is opening today. Zorionak, and thank you for being so generous. In Euskadi, according to the INE, in 2019 there are 183,500 people with some kind of disability, of whom more than 110,000 are women.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u112	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u113	Women who, like any other woman in this patriarchal and macho society, are at a disadvantage from men simply because they are women. But, in addition, we live in a society that is still very complicated for people with functional diversity. So, to that slab that we all load in our backpack, they have to add another, that of having a profile that does not fit the standards and that, therefore, makes them subjects doubly discriminated but also doubly resilient. Women are dissected for the reason of the genus. The discrimination which cripples suffer is double or triple; for the disparaging of all women must be added to the disquisition which the cripples suffer. It is estimated that 40% of women with disabilities suffer or have suffered some form of violence, although the numbers are underrepresented in the statistics, according to Cermi. In studies conducted in the United States, for example, women with disabilities suffer between two and five times more episodes of gender-based violence, and between four and ten, if their disability is intellectual. A 2006 European Parliament resolution speaks of 80% of women and girls with disabilities who have suffered or suffer from some form of violence. It is women who, in the light of this data, are exposed to a wider range of gender-based violence and discrimination, and also by institutions or individuals who provide them with the care and support they need to develop in a society that is not accessible to all. We are certainly moving towards a more inclusive society, but we have to recognize that there are stigmas that accompany disability, and that cause these people to be seen sometimes, especially when they are women, as less valuable beings. Marita Iglesias, a member of Galicia's Independent Life Forum, says that the absence of representations of her identity favors the perception that they can be abused without remorse or conscience. Soledad Arnau talks about myths associated with disability, which give rise to abuse and ill-treatment of women with disabilities, such as dehumanization associated with limitations, damaged merchandise, as if the abuse of them did not entail a loss, insensitivity to pain, the myth of the threat of disability that can cause them to become even guilty of the aggressions they suffer, or the myth of defencelessness. Myths that, as his own name indicates, do not conform to reality or truth, but that transcend and overshadow the day to day of thousands of women. The prejudices, stereotypes, and myths, which are really unjust, determine the lives of women who are functional, and hinder society from seeing them as subjects of rights. The report Psychosocial support and prevention of gender-based violence in women with disabilities There are not a few reasons, of course, and in no case are they justified or are, by explaining them, less terrible. Some of the causes of violence against women with disabilities are undoubtedly due to the great work that we all have as a society, to the need for greater and better awareness, for greater or better training, but others, which we are dealing with today, are due to the creation by public institutions and policies of spaces, resources and services that are not accessible. It's a shame that the counselor doesn't care too much. Spaces, services and resources that leave were part of the citizenship, because the problems that affect them are less visible or less known. It is not a lack of will; it is inertia not to take into account what is not too much seen. They say in the report prepared in 2008 by Fekoor and Emakunde – and I quote textually – that it is not just a question of naming or quantifying different forms of abuse or inequality, but of understanding how different factors unite to create those conditions in which women with disabilities are abandoned or exposed to situations of risk or vulnerability, because they are at greater risk, and how to protect themselves or them." This is why, in Elkarrekin Podemos, we consider a specific look indispensable; it is essential to act with that look towards the double vulnerabilities, towards the intersection of exclusion factors. Just as we say that it is essential to put the gender perspective into everything that is done, despite the lack of that view in many of the current public policies, it is inexcusable to continue without incorporating accessibility as a cross-cutting element in all of them. And it is from these premises that we consider the debate on the initiative we are putting on the table to be timely today. By this sense, we seek to make women and girls live in a functionary manner and participate in all sorts of life. An initiative, as I said, to ensure that women and girls with functional diversity in Euskadi can live independently and participate fully in all aspects of life on equal terms, because the real and effective exercise of rights, full autonomy, empowerment, is justice, but it is also a key factor in the prevention of violence against girls and women, a prevention that without the work and the impetus of the public authorities, alone, will never have. We are going to give birth to this agreement and expand. We intend, by borrowing the words of Eginaren Eginez, to make visible the invisible, to stage the hidden and the ignored, to bring to light this situation, because for those who suffer it has nothing invisible. Today, we take a step to expand our knowledge and our work, and a step to remedy this bias and profoundly unjust situations. In Elkarrekin Podemos, we believe that all people must have access to their rights, and for that it is essential that there be knowledge and that those who are not able to exercise them on an equal basis are heard. It is essential, for this, to put means, tools, words, debates; in short, everything in our hand, to move the focus of attention on a reality that you do not see, you do not want to see and you do not want to let yourself be seen; in fact, it seems that you do not even want to listen. What is in our hand to work more and better on a reality, in which, in addition to the distance that already causes per se And that, in our view, is one of the keys to starting to transform the current situation, and to enable and encourage the social participation of women in equality. This requires, inter alia, that all institutional policies address gender and disability in a cross-cutting manner, that they be assessed how issues affect them, but also that they be assessed how public policies affect them. All this, that public policies may be more effective in the defence of the rights of all, and frequently the rights of the community are acknowledged, but many of the people are not allowed to use them. There are tools at European level, as well as in Euskadi, to facilitate and encourage policies to integrate this dual vision. Let's use them! In 1997, the European Disability Forum approved the Manifesto for Women with Disabilities, with the firm aim of ensuring the presence and participation of this sector and laying the groundwork for taking into account their demands and needs for the promotion of equality and non-discrimination. 14 years later, through the second manifesto, the rights of women and girls with disabilities in the European Union are updated. Two points, a tool for activists and political actors. They ask us directly, we pick up the glove. In Euskadi, Fekoor women took the initiative and developed, in 2008, with the support of Emakunde, a guide to gender and disability mainstreaming in public policies. It has been 10 years since then, and there are other areas of diversity and other territories, from which there was no opportunity to contribute at that time. We believe that, if we are to make policies for all, we must value all these tools, but also expand and update them and, in the end, listen to those who know, the protagonists of these daily struggles – and I insist – so invisible; learn from and with the protagonists, so as not to leave anyone out and set out once and for all towards real improvement, towards an improvement that transcends. Because this guide gathered and collects magnificent recommendations, made in 2008, of which it has been implemented in little or nothing. He talks about prevention, resource detection, good practices, issues that are not developed, and many others do not exist or are expected. And it's not the only thing... For example, as we were told yesterday, how many years have we been insisting on passing the Iris questionnaire in cases of violence, which allows for better identification of the situations of violence suffered by women with disabilities? The tool is from the year 97. Get out of the accounts! How many times have we seen or heard situations in which diverse women are nullified or ignored, as if they were not subjects of law? How many times do women with disabilities not have employment opportunities because their lives are relegated to care, without breath, without alternatives, without rest, without right? Zenbat bizitza-proiektu oztopatzen will say aurreritziak eta stereotypeak parratzen dituztelako? There is certainly a lot of work to be done. And in all areas. Today's initiative gives us the opportunity, little one. The women present here, and many others who are not here but contribute in their daily struggle, offer us knowledge, tools, involvement and knowledge to be able to do so. I insist, let's take advantage of it. In Elkarrekin Podemos, and thanks to the generosity of all groups, today we take a step to do so. A step to put aside inertia and build on the agreement; an essential agreement for work to move forward; an agreement that urges the Government – it would be good if the woman counsel were a little interested – to ensure that women and girls with functional diversity can live independently and participate fully in all aspects of life on equal terms with other people; an agreement that calls for her to do so by cross-cutting her specific proposals and needs in the planning, implementation and evaluation of all policies promoted in all departments. To this end, the Government is also urged to provide a guide on gender mainstreaming and functional diversity in all its forms and in all public policies, so that there is no risk that it will remain in a box in this Parliament for a maximum of one and a half years. The initiative calls on the Government, calls on all the institutions in Euskadi and commits itself as an institution the Parliament to take into account, with a view to the design of implementation and evaluation of policies, the second European manifesto mentioned above. Finally, it is committed to working with the associations working in this field, as the convention states. And I have to say I'm very happy. I am very happy because for the second week, we managed to put at the heart of this House concerns that are of all and solutions that we manage to share among all. Concerns we bring, because we are aware that it is essential to do things better and that it is time. People with diversity no longer have time for their rights to continue to be violated and for no one to place them in the place of importance they require. From our group, we put on the table the commitment to closely follow up on this issue, so that no one leaves it, either voluntarily or unintentionally, again, in a drawer or in the toilet. Today we take a step forward for institutions to deal with essential actions, if we really want to live worlds in which all people can exercise all their rights. Because, as Rosa Luxembourg said, we must fight for a world in which we are socially equal, humanly different and totally free. To conclude, I wish to acknowledge the engagement of the Parliament to-day, and encourage women to continue their work with functional diligence. We're here, and you've got our support. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseboy, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u115	Thank you, good noon, and welcome. We are now concerned with the necessity of being an intersecrational equality of characters and views, and therefore I wish to thank Mrs. Guanche for the proposal which I brought to her, because we believe it to be really important, as we spoke about older women in time. And what a coincidence it is that I have two issues today, and we women have an interview and an arrangement in what we do. And I'm glad you're feeling inclined to interview when we're talking about equality police. Yesterday, I was in Ordiz, in a speech, and among the several questions that came out, we talked of the right to be a citizen and a citizen of the women. And what difficulties the Lesbians had in developing their courses of life in small countries, we began to discuss it, or the difficulties with which those who fought against normality were able to develop their citizenship in countries-that is to say, all those bodies which were excluded from homogeneousness were in the community, that is to say, public politics. And it is not only that women you have a functional multiplicity, but that they wish to make you perfectly invisible with these politics. And precisely when we insert these points of view, introduce multiplicity, it will be beneficial to us all, because we will speak of inclutive citizenship, and I think we still have a great deal to do in it. And here I have light And the correction we proposed came from that, from the consideration of the work already made. And there are researchers, and there are guides already to suggest how it can be done by inserting a functional multiplicity in public policies. It's true that we're talking about a job in 2008, but unfortunately it's been 10-11 years, and everything that's there is still to be done. Then I think it's important to fit in the modern context, but it's also necessary to consider what's done. With these inclusive citizens, this modification of public politics, this surprise! Because we talk about sexuality, oh, surprise, because women with multiple functions must also go to giantologists, oh, what a surprise! Because we talk about the work world because we want to talk about the motherhood. Because we want to talk about it. And it seems to depend on the functional multiplicity with only one identity, and not on their multiple identities, like a woman, as a stranger, as a lesbian who is functioning a variety of ways, as well as a lesbian, for oh, what a surprise! There are multiple sexual qualities, too, between all the people we have multiple functions. I believe, therefore, that it is time to introduce our public politics into this point of interaction, to put aside the identity of the estanians, and in all these gaps we should begin to confess that too many people are left side by side. Take all these to the centre, carry them to the center of public politics, take the work they've done, and take the road to those who work, and I'd mention that in this work, which they're doing with the Machita violence, they're taking care of the need of integration of this point of view in the middle of the world. And we hope and suppose that the form of the law-form to come will also lead it to the centre. But it's time. Let's begin by bringing these people into the centre, reflecting, and it was said in this news or report, and as these people identified themselves, we are the rebellious souls that have rebelled against the world! Those rebellious souls, the rebellious souls, even in the centre of public policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u117	Yes, thank you very much, President. We are going to debate today on the rights of girls and women with functional diversity; today I am pleased that all the groups in this House, both the proposing group Elkarrekin Pode and all the amending groups, the Basque Nationalist group, the Socialist Group and the EH Bildu group, have reached a compromise amendment agreement, which I hope will also be voted for by the People's Group, although it has not tabled an amendment, and so we will get the vote in favour of all the groups in this House. This agreement will allow us to move forward on an equal footing. The concept of girls and women with functional diversity encompasses women and girls with any physical, visual, hearing, mental disability or disability, with learning difficulties, regardless of the severity of their disability, their sexual preferences, their cultural environment, their age, living in rural or urban areas, or in a family environment or in institutions. We are talking about multiple discrimination: on the one hand, in gender, and on the other, the functional disability suffered by these girls and women, to which can be added other discriminatory factors, such as race, sexual preferences, etc. Women with functional diversity are considered less able to assume and develop traditional female roles, and, in addition, much more vulnerable to social exclusion, not being limited exclusively to the existence of architectural barriers, but also psychosocial ones. That is why it is very important that we put all our efforts into ensuring that people with functional diversity, whether physical, sensory or psychic, can enjoy all rights in our society on an equal footing. According to disability surveys conducted in 2008, 8.5 per cent of the citizens surveyed reported having a disability, of which 59.8 per cent, or almost 60 per cent, were women. And one of the problems that has been encountered, and that has posed many difficulties, was precisely that difficulty in having statistics that could provide data that would make the situation of discrimination suffered by this group more visible. Women with functional diversity constitute an important group of people on the poverty line in Spain, suffering higher unemployment rates, lower wages, greater difficulties in accessing health services, greater educational gaps and sometimes difficulties in understanding information, or greater risk of sexual or physical abuse. Hence, the need for positive political action aimed at eliminating such prejudices, discourses, attitudes and practices that prevent girls and women with functional diversity from achieving a real and effective situation of equal opportunities in our society. It is important to take into account documents such as the Second Manifesto of Women and Girls with Disabilities of the European Union, the Comprehensive Plan of Action for Women with Disabilities or indicators of social exclusion for women with disabilities, and, of course, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And to stress the great importance of taking these documents into account, in order to develop, by the Basque Government, a guide on gender and functional diversity, in all its forms and in all public policies. And although the last few years have progressed in this area, and this group has begun to become visible, much remains to be done. I agree with you, Mrs. Guanche. My group, the Basque Socialists, is aware that, as a society, we must fight to achieve that social transformation, to accept that diversity of people, without being considered less capable. It is very common for women with disabilities to be overprotected, childish or incarcerated in the home or in institutions that make them much more vulnerable to situations of violence or sexual assault, and that often violate their fundamental rights as human beings. Because the lack of opportunities that people with functional diversity often suffer has nothing to do with their own disability, but with the barriers that society itself imposes (physical, mental and even attitudinal), having been forgotten, too, by the media and, for a long time, even by feminism. We must continue to work to achieve this and, therefore, I believe that the various points contained in the compromise amendment, which we have signed, between the Basque Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group, the Elkarrekin Podemos Group and the EH Bildu Group, take one step further to achieve precisely that objective. And within it, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue to ensure, within its sphere of competence, that these women and girls with functional diversity can live in this autonomous way, on equal terms, recognizing this transversalization. But above all, let the Basque Government be urged to provide a guide around this cross-cutting of gender and functional diversity, in all its forms and in all public policies. And that guide should be brought here to the Basque Parliament, within a maximum of one year and six months. I mean, this is the deadline. It does not mean, of course, that it would be desirable for it to come as soon as possible. In addition, take into account the preparation of this guide, the Second European Manifesto on the Rights of Women and Girls with Functional Diversity, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the guide to be drawn up by the Basque Government; and take into account, as marked by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the collaboration of associations which defend or work in the field of the perspective of women and girls with functional diversity, and which also participate and may have such participation in the preparation of the guides. I think it is a positive agreement, and that is why I am satisfied. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u118	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Juez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chairman, members of the legislature, welcome to you, especially to you, and thank you for being with us today. It is true that at most women, at least, there are more difficult things to do. It's still true that we have to face a lot of challenges. It is true, too, that equality has not yet been attained. If equality is the future, it is not yet the present, and we must attain it, we are in it. It is true also that we suffer violence from some men and from some boys. It is true that we must often more demonstrate merit, and it is true that we must yet fight with many ghosts. They're all true, and we'd talk more about it. It's a long list, too long. If she is a child or a child, and above all a woman who has a functionary character, she will limit her future and condition it. If women succeed in a portion of life or two, we believe that many, many, have succeeded. And in all the parts of life there are very few women who succeed both in the public and in private, and also with great difficulty. Yet what we have hitherto accomplished is much, though the way is very long, too long. And I think we all got it. Society has succeeded, and institutions have succeeded. But if we're capable of confirming that we've all been successful, why do we always blame you for what you haven't done? I think it would be more fair to admit that society has a share in it too. The town halls, the town halls, the town halls... they must continue to work. He who gives good results must be strengthened, and he who does not produce, rejects and testes new formulas. What you see in houses, who live, learns to see Çanzer, learns it, and repeats it. The formation may be tremendous, the policy of equality and integration may be numerous, but their efficiency is shaken in families if this criterion of equality is not present. They'll stop short. Among teenagers, there are differences. -the authorities have gone up, and educational information and formation are given. So, where's the knot? In education, society, media, social media, families... The prevention is the most important and the most useful instrument, and, like a joke which we see less and less among us, we must strengthen the prevention. We have to make sure that we don't create a problem through prevention. But, of course, when it comes up, we must find a solution. The preventive government can do it, and they do it. However, as I have said, the work to be done in families is still deep. Often, we're putting too much work on our parents in education. When I speak of equality, I mean the equality of women and men, but also of equality between men who have a functionary character, and of the equality of these women. Society's responsibility goes along with the government's responsibility. They must both be on the side of these girls and women, and they must continue to set up the necessary programmes and measures. On reaching this point, I am tempted to explain all the programmes and actions he has done and done; but as we are nearly familiar with all of us here, I shall mention a few of them: Diversity Care Plan, Inclusive Education Programme, Law and Social Services Plan. 33.7 million have just been allocated to promoting the integration of persons with disabilities into special employment centres; 1.7 million to support enterprises that facilitate the reconciliation of working and family life; 700,000 euros to support the employment of persons with disabilities in the ordinary labour market. Economic, material and personal resources. Work and investment for people with functional diversity are continuous, and the goal is, as my colleagues have said, to end the invisibility of functional diversity. The same people who have these characteristics explain that, most of the time, it is society itself that is not prepared to see these women and girls alike, to treat them equally. Disability is not a characteristic of the individual, but is the result of interaction between a person with specific personal circumstances and an environment that limits, hinders or impedes the exercise of his or her rights. These people, in too many situations and occasions, cannot participate fully and effectively in society, on equal terms with others, which is aggravated when they are girls or women. They can and they want; let us not close their doors; unite and not separate; respect and accept. I think it's a glorious position for people to be empathy. What you have with empathy, what you have in front of you, you understand better, and his needs are better visible. I think we should use more. Society must be that which ought to be observed by these persons, and which ought to treat them with propriety in all sorts of ways, in everyday life. Children are more natural than other things when they're seen, but as the years go by, this naturalness goes astray. The aim should not be to lose this naturalness and normality. It's not a pun, it's a purpose. equality to inequality. Commercial patterns, co-actions, indirectness, and people on the political side. The gift, in March Tuesday, announced the program for March 8th, March 8th. This year she insists that the girls should be free to build and choose their future. The work that constantly defends the rights of girls and women in functional intercourse is an offering. He says that the intermediary and his business are meant to mention the work they do for these people, and he mentions it. He says that the work that has been done in the last two decades, and that what has been accomplished, is a great deal, though it must be done more, and may often be in a different manner. It takes interest and directs the demands of persons with functional differences; and it admits that the action, political action, and universal access are on the side of the political policy which is formed in our community. On Friday, the Mayor Erkorea told us that in public employment these women have a place, that they have rights, that there's a program and there's a plan. First, we examine our jobs; then we adapt the process of exercise to them, and finally follow all these processes. I'm pretty calm in public because women aren't invisible. As it is said in Spanish, "nos preocupa y nos ocupa." And that, I think we should all accept. We women who have discussed and examined this point have obtained a pretty easy arrangement, because we share their values and ends, and I think it's very optimistic to come to this agreement, because it's fairly large, and I don't think we've left anything behind us. So I want to thank Mrs. Guanche and Mrs. Houseboy, Garrido and Mrs. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mrs Garrido, representing the Potula team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u121	Thank you, Mr. President, chief physician. Well, I think it's a cry that this parliamentarian tries to be brief in her presentation, and I will try, obviously for the time and apart because I believe that my predecessors, the interveners, my companions, have explained the subject very well. Today, we talk about functional "dibertsity." And, well, that which has always been used has been impossible. And with this general term there has always been expressed the privations and limitations, the privations and limitations of persons. It is true that this term is not a simple term. And especially when we use this term, we mean that we ought to respect the nature of the person, or of the individual, and above all to look for integration in different areas and quarters. As I said, the term "functional diversity" is a relatively recent term; it is from 2005 when this term is started. And the term used by the World Health Organization refers to "disability"; it is the general term, which covers deficiencies, activity limitations and restrictions on the participation of certain persons. As we all know, there are different types of disabilities, disabilities, functional diversity; we talk about physical, intellectual, temporal, permanent, sensory, multisensory, auditory, visual; even talking about levels, we talk about mild, moderate or severe. When we talk about disability or functional diversity, the most important thing is to respect the status of people with some kind of disability, whatever type of disability, and, above all, to seek social and labour integration; this is the widely shared object and, finally, to which the various institutions have to entrust themselves, obviously deploying all the competences they have for this purpose. We are talking about special centres; we are talking about specific centres, about aid. I will also refer to a subject that I think is important, which is also the student who has special needs; encouragement to special employment centres, when we talk about job integration; we talk about leisure; we talk about care and dependence; we talk about accessibility and all the barriers these people can present. I, for not extending further, I mean that, proposed aurkeztu zenean, bat gentozen orokorrean bertan posetzen zenarekin, eta, horrexegatik, zuzenketarik ez genuen aurkeztu. Eta, henera, azkenean, akordio zabala lortzen da, eta gure laguntza emango diugu, azkenean uste dugulako helburu nagusia – this hemen adostasun zabal bat dagoelako henera – politicika publikoak ezarri behar dela, politicika publiko eabilgarriak, efektiboak eta eraginkorrak. I think the end of the initiative we share. That is why we took the decision not to amend the original initiative. We were also expecting an agreement. I think the agreement is satisfactory. I am not going to extend further, because it has already been extensively explained here by the proposer and by the different people who have preceded me in the use of the word. And in the end, it is about advancing and arbitrating public policies that are used, that are effective, for people who have some kind of disability or functional diversity. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u122	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Is anyone willing to participate in the answers? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u123	Excuse me, please, from the seat. And very brief, so people are coming in. Two clarifications and two wishes: The first clarification: let us review the logbook, and you will see that I have made mention of the need and responsibility that we have as a society, but let me, as a Member of Parliament, deal with and worry about what concerns us, which is public policy. Second clarification: thank you for telling us all the budgetary measures that have been developed in the government – we know them – and it draws our attention to the fact that the lowest amount is directed towards the element of greater standardisation, which is that of ordinary employment. I believe that we have a challenge here as a society, as public policies, but we also have – this government has – a parliamentary mandate from the beginning of this legislature, which is not being fulfilled. And two wishes: the first, that in the law of equality we see the will that has been seen here today among all the groups of the House, and that we see collected the rights of these women and of so many different women, who have various needs, that they have to be contemplated; and the next wish, that for once equality ceases to be Emakunde's thing and accessibility ceases to be Ms. Artolazabal's thing, because both are responsibility and must be the task of everyone in all departments. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Yes, ma'am, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u125	One, two, three, four... No? Orian, yes. Yes, from the seat. Well, I think we're talking about public policies here, too, and that's what I'm saying, right? for this is the place where we are concerned, but I believe, as a public people, that reflection is doubtless necessary, and, as has been mentioned in my discussion, the feminist movement of the members of the Fekoor has also been occupied by a great void, and I believe that even there has been some reflection about it. Then you have informed us of the several programmes of functionary multiplicity, and at least I confess that I have not had time to read them entirely, but I leave to myself a question and exercise, to look at these reports in a PDF, and to consider how many times they are mentioned, because I think it will be very rare. and they are instances of the absence of these or of many others. And I repeat, that we spoke of the inclutive socialities, that these inclosive fellow-citizens are multiples, and must be excluded from homogeneity. That is to say, we must not only speak of persons who have a functional multiplicity and functional variety; these persons also, women, lesbians, transsciseds, euccantes, euccatals, or euphorcats, who would care or care not, because they may be either mothers, sportsmen, or sportsmen, and so on. So we stay with this exercise, take the PDF, examine how many times the "woman" appears, and if there are many, eat my words, and congratulate them, but if there is little to do so, let them be more useful in them. And another exercise we apply to ourselves: Whether these spaces, these ways of making our politics, this space itself, for women, for women, are comfortable, attractive, and vital. I have in my head, when one or the other has fallen and taken a pain in his leg, what difficulties we may have in a space like this. Well, there's another exercise proposition I leave there. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Anybody else want to take the word? Mrs. Sánchez, right? So, Eucabertarians, Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u127	Yes, with your permission, this way. Well, your wishes, Mrs. Guanche, are also ours. I was surprised, and I was not surprised to receive the word again, for while I spoke, you said to the neighbour, "le voy a contestar." Le voy a contestar... I think it's all right, you're in your right; but, well, I don't think I've said anything stupid. Gauzak Egypt will say, age you had, nik ere, skubidia doubt Gobernuak and beast erakundeek Egypt must be. Zeren, beti, see the glass half empty or half full, because it changes the perspective a bit, and see us always in government mode, I think it is nothing objective. Things are done, things are going to be done, and this time, I think I should recognize that, from the first initiative to what we have agreed, we have left nothing or I think almost nothing. So, well, I just wanted to clarify that, eta eskerrak berriro. And I'm sure if she doesn't appear in these documents, it's not because I think that's the important thing that she's going to be in the nicest streets and she's there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Now that the debate is over, we'll continue to vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect and the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; 70; the opponents 70; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-28.u129	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Next, I will read to you two institutions of expression: Institutional expression on the world's Day of strange diseases. "It is natural to remark to the society of euscal that the existence of a strange disease must be treated from a whole enfoke, with the clear co-ordination of the whole health system, with the necessary cooperation between all the sectors and operators. "A strange sickness is an evil which may appear in birth or age. Many of them are genetics, and have a high rate of mortality; those who are known to be in the European desert as unprevalent diseases are less prejudicial to less than five in 10,000 inhabitants. "As the World Medical Organization values, there are 5,000 and 7,000 rare diseases that affect 68% of the population of the world. "For this reason, the Basque Parliament expresses its support to all affected persons, all their families and the ERDF on World Rare Disease Day. "It is essential to continue to ensure equitable access to life-saving medicines and health products for rare diseases, to continue the identification of patients through the Rare Disease Registry, and to continue the improvement in access to services and services such as rehabilitation and psychological care, the basic common portfolio of the National Health System, facilitating the referral authorized by inspection to all persons affected by rare diseases, and to support the creation of new centres, services and reference units for integrated multidisciplinary care. "It is necessary that the investigation should be insisted on, and that the measures should be applied to an early diagnosis, as well as new medical treatments. It is essential to continue to improve the course for a rapid diagnosis, and to continue to give information about emergency services, and the first attentions, around the centres of reference to strange diseases, keeping the explanation of patterns in the development of the planet for the operation of strange illnesses, and also keeping a guarantee of attention-premeditations, by entering into the directive of the premic health limit. "We must also consider the peculiar needs of rare diseases, in order to adapt new calms to the calculation of disorders, and in order to ease and encourage tramites in the dependence field, as to maintain the resources of education and education, to suit the special needs of those who have rare diseases, to provide for the maintenance of education, education, and health." The institutional expression on the sahara: "Yesterday, February 27th, 2019, when the Saharar people had produced the State of Sheba. He remembered the anniversary, and peace, and, under the demand of freedom, the SEAD flag was placed in the front of the Basque Parliament." "In the same manner, a few days ago, a delegation of the Basque parliaments went to the camps of the refugees of Cniduph, and, together with the representatives of certain Basque institutions, took part in the Congress of the National Woman of Saharar, where she had renewed her engagement with the people of Saharar. "After 43 years of occupation of Western Sahara and the struggle of the Saharawi people, the situation remains unresolved, and both the population living in the occupied territories and those living in the refugee camps in Tindouf are being violated their human rights, being forced to live under Moroccan occupation or in refugee camps. "For this reason, the Basque Parliament endorses the Palma declaration, which states that the Frente Polisario is the legitimate and only representative of the Saharan people, thus recognized by the UN and the international community. "Reaffirms, again, that the Moroccan presence in Western Sahara is illegal and that it cannot have legal or political effects that undermine the Saharan people's right to self-determination and independence. "It is certain that the West Sahara is a non-autonomous territory, subject to international law, and has never been a part of the kingdom of Morocco. For this reason we demand that it be ended by an illegal occupation and execution of the people of Sahara for self-determination. "It is demanded of the kingdom of Morocco that he should immediately release the civil prisoners and the satires of conscience, and leave the human rights in the prisons which he controls, to the breach of human rights, to the physical and physical integrity of the prisoners. And it is required again that the institution of the United Nations should have more business to do in MINURSO, in the Western Sahara. "It is acknowledged that the Government of Morocco exercises natural resources in the Western Sahara, although there are conflicting judgments. "To the United States it is required that they should be encouraged at once, as soon as possible, the solution to the Western Sahara conflict, namely, the right of self-determination of the people of Sahara, by refefendum. And the United Nations Organization requires the Council of Human Rights in Genoa to have a writer of human rights for the Western Sahara. "This expression of the Palma's expression is exactly what was accepted in February 2019. The whole community of the legislature confirms the commitment to the people of Sacca, and the will to continue to assist them in that cause." It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and forty-two.
