ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. Single theme: "To examine the state of commerce in Araban, Biscaia, and Gipuzia, and to refresh the commerce of the place." This is the round of the group that made the proposal. Mr. Casanova, representing the EH team, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u1	Thank you, Madame General of the Parliament. Good morning, everyone. In the first place, on a day like this, I believe that it is necessary to congratulate the merchants here with us, that this monographic pleno has been possible to accomplish this monographic pleno, and that we should certainly resolve to leave this pleno. Your constant struggle in the defence of your sector has helped us to observe the importance of trade and the difficulties which the sector suffers, and by which we are here today confessing the importance of this matter. This is the monographic meeting in the third part of the course of this legislation, followed by prison policy and family politics. The three of them called EHG GUGHs. When we call a monographic whole meeting, we assign two factors. On the one hand, the subject is important; on the other hand, that this subject is not the proper political treatment, that there is a defense in the niceties around it. Undoubtedly the field of commerce fills these two conditions. It's a very important economic sector, which presupposes 10% of the attorneys at least 11% of the raw internal procedure, and 13% of the job. On the other hand, the politics of the trade haven't been the best thing for years, because it's been no good at all in the pretty things that have been correcting him, there's no stability and there's been no clear direction. There hasn't even been enough economic resources. These two factors (the importance of the attorney and the lack of public policies) have been added to a third motivation to call this meeting, that the sector is wrong, that the sector is in a very serious situation. And in the middle of the sector, especially small commerce, close-to-do commerce, local commerce. During the years between 2008 and 2016, the total number of stalls was passed from 32,000 to 26,000. That is to say, he took 16% down. The crisis in 2008 led to weaken the purchase power of the majority. The retrospect processing of the crisis has penetrated that weakness. Those who have been brought down to pay pay, because it is an internal prejudice, and the reduction of social policies and pensions, have limited the capacity of buying the majority of society. Some say the best social policy is job. We say that we do not agree, because it is the responsibility of public power to develop solid and active social policies. But in this respect, as far as commerce is concerned, we may say, that the best policy for the improvement of commerce is to increase the purchase power of the population, that is, to increase wages, preparations, and pensions. Besides the loss of purchase, there are other reasons for explaining the decline of petty commerce; the great tracts of commerce have multiplied in our country; some of these commerce have placed on a red carpet, which have helped them in an active manner in order to facilitate their settings and openings from politics. The clearest example of this reality is in the left hand: while the great trading centres are accumulated, the small commerce is in great distress, and some sub-rectors have straight into ruin. Besides, as far as commerce is concerned, governments of Madrid have been of the most pernicious measure to the commerce of the place, which they have taken with the pretext of strengthening free competition. The liberty of the liberalization or cheaping of the hours is suitable only to those who have the volume to answer, that is to say, for the great tracts of commerce, while the difficulties are increased to small merchants. There are many other factors which have affected the critical state of small trade; the amazonism, the amazonism, the lack of marketing when starting some projects. The electronic trade has come not only to remain, but to increase it. In the Spanish state, it is already five% of the trade. This mechanism is made normal, and annual growth is 25 percent. We will not deny the advantages of this system; we will not say, that it is absolutely necessary to disappear; but we find that the system which does not produce employment here, and that the system which pays not the taxes, cannot have the advantages or privileges which are not allowed to be more competitive. Recapitulating: we have a very important sector for our economy and employment, such as trade, especially small trade, in a very delicate situation; it has suffered in recent years the impact of the loss of purchasing power from broad sections of society, the indiscriminate proliferation and with some political support of large commercial areas, which has also been favoured by neoliberal regulations such as the liberalisation of schedules or the deregulation of rebates, and we have also seen how the emergence of electronic commerce has led to a disruption in the sector. All this while the Basque Government was developing a weak and erratic policy, without much budgetary resources, which suffered from a lack of strategic direction and even an elementary capacity for coordination with other institutions and with the sector's associative fabric. We want things to start to change, which is why we have called this full monograph, because we want things to start to change in public policies towards trade. Above all, we want that negative development in trade to begin to change. We are realistic enough to understand the limitations of a full of these characteristics, but humbly aspire that, being this full a moment of shared reflection, it may also be a turning point. So far I have exposed the situation and I have assessed the causes that have brought us to it, but being our vocation today eminently purposeful, I will go on to outline, first, and then develop the lines of work that could, from the point of view of our group, contribute to starting to reverse the delicate situation in which the small trade sector finds itself. In our view, policies to promote small trade should be articulated around the following six axes: first, increasing the social and political valuation of the sector; second, implementing a new model of more horizontal and effective governance; third, equal opportunities between the different distribution channels; fourth, improving policies to promote the sector; fifth, modernization and digitisation; and sixth, demanding labour rights. We will briefly develop the philosophy of each of these axes and some of the concrete proposals for realising each line of intervention, without prejudice to a more detailed explanation of some of the proposals we will make at the afternoon session. We will start with the section on the valuation of the trade sector, as we consider it to be the starting point for the rest of the policies. Trade is an essential economic activity in its twofold dimension of generating employment and wealth and, in addition, providing the population with a number of commodities, some of them food, which are directly essential for life. Proximity trade also stimulates the local economy and has a direct fiscal contribution. As an important economic activity which, in addition, has the significant volume we mentioned at the beginning, it should, as such, It is necessary to convey this message to society in a sustained and pedagogical way, explaining over and over that betting on local trade – that is, consuming in local trade – is a decision that will benefit everyone. This should constitute a permanent institutional communication campaign. But it is also necessary for institutions to predict by example and also to make the exercise of properly valuing trade in their own business and in their own budgets. It would not be very consistent to call on citizens to make an effort to support local trade while the institutions continue to discriminate budgetaryly against this important sector. The current budget for the area of trade in the Basque Government is only 16 million (16,000,900 according to the budget just presented to us), which represents an absolutely disproportionate amount with regard to the size of this area of activity, its importance and its problems. That is why we believe that doubling it within four years would be a fair measure that would also give society credibility to the discourse on the institution's commitment to small trade. Of course, you need more money, but it's not just what you need. Money ought to be used well; new and well-ordered policys ought to be made; and for this purpose it is necessary to make a new model of government, co-ordinated, shared, and participated in the administration. So far we have seen that politics have not been coordinated: each agency and administration have acted with the best will in Françoise; sometimes some dynamics were repeated, and what was to be done at other times was left unfinished. Nor has the information been shared as it should, and the agents have often been ignorant of the fundamental decisions until they have been introduced. Every section of the administration and all the operating parts of the sector must at least have a shared area to share information and make decisions in a arranged way. We think it's already existing, but from 2015 to the freezer, this area must be a commercial consultant. The board itself, and the groups of works which may be formed by adaptation, may be converted into a combination of commercial policy and evaluated control rooms, without denying the executive capacity of the Government, and we understand that it is the leader's business, because we think the contribution of all the other agents is indispensable. The time for self-seeking must cease, the time of decoination must cease, the time of want of information must come when it is time for us to go all together, and for this we need instruments and wills. Local trade needs renewed support policies, but before repairing the effects of the flood, we need to close the waterways. I shall now refer to the need to avoid that forms of commercial distribution other than local trade have advantages, in our view, which are clearly illegitimate. Small business must compete with large shopping centres and e-commerce. Citizenship wants these formats to exist and demands their service. We do not oppose its existence, although in the case of large shopping centres we believe that there is an oversizing of supply, because they have been promoted beyond reasonableness, but we do ask that everyone compete on an equal footing. Large shopping centres, depending on their size, can apply economies of scale that allow them to have lower prices, as well as a wider range of products. But also according to their size they occupy extensive areas, which means a cost of territorial opportunity for society that cannot have these spaces for other activities or respect their natural state. In addition, large shopping centres rotate over the use of the car, generating an increase in greenhouse gas emissions, and obliging the creation and implementation of greater maintenance of infrastructure always in the hands of the public sector. Beyond such taxation or their ordinary taxation, these centres should face their negative contribution from the area of territorial planning and the environment, and we therefore propose the introduction of a tax on large commercial areas in proportion to their size. It is a perfectly feasible tax, since it is in force in other communities – including Nafarroa – and its implementation has passed the court filter. In the Basque Autonomous Community there are about 800,000 square meters of large shopping centres, so the application of a quota of 12 euros per square meter – which is the quota that exists in Nafarroa – would generate revenues close to 10 million euros per year, a not negligible amount that, as an example, would mean that the Administration would enter an amount almost similar to the increase that we have proposed in the trade budgets. And speaking of malls, I'm going to make a special mention here of the Zaldunborda project. After a huge effort led mainly by the Euskal Dendak group, this House passed last June a law that regulated and restricted the establishment of large shopping centres on the outskirts of cities, putting an end to a period of deregulation in this area and curbing the flood of projects that focused, especially, on the Donostialdea area. With premeditation and lightness, and with the obvious spirit of avoiding the effects of this law, the Municipality of Hondarribia hastened the processing to, in record time, grant the initial approval to the commercial macro centre that they want to install in the land of Zaldunborda. All this is a misconception that must be put to an end. Although no one from outside Hondarribia has dared to support the actions of the PNV mayor – not even his own co-religionaries – it is worth noting that, at the same time, PNV and PSOE have refrained, on a calculated basis, from rejecting the project and, even more, from taking letters in the matter to stop it. In the opinion of our group, if the Zaldunborda project goes ahead, the lehendakari, the Territorial Planning Advisor and the Trade and Tourism Advisor will be responsible for the disaster that would cause in the small trade of the environment, by omission of their responsibilities. I would also like to denounce the incomprehensible and undemocratic action of the majority of the Bureau of this Parliament, which, in an authoritarian way, has vetoed the possibility that the non-legislative proposal put forward by EH Bildu to call for the suspension of the Zaldunborda draft will be debated in full and has led it to committee, with the clear intention of bringing about a debate which bothers them. The Regulation makes it possible to draw up GNP per committee if they do not have sufficient entities for their full debate. Here you have, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the PNV and the PSOE on the Bureau of Parliament, the main representatives of the Basque trade sector, some of them from the Bidasoa area: have the courage to explain to you now that the project that can end your business is not of sufficient entity, because they already had value in doing the abusive and tortuous interpretation of the regulation they have done. But come on, let's keep looking forward. We must say that the multinational productions of the electronic trade enjoy the advantages which are not permitted. Some of them cheat directly in the billing, and they even act in the commercialization of forgerys, especially outside the European Union, in the case of so many degenerates. These are extreme cases, they are not general, but they have been and are not anarchical. On the other hand, a giant like the Amazon always moves in the grayish area. An economic diary made the following calculations in the Spanish State by the activity of the Amazon company: The Amazon is divided into four companies. In all, the billing of these companies in the state was 4,200 million euros, but only the tax was declared to the tax. Finally, four million dollars was paid to the state Seed, %1 of possible profits. This situation supposes that small traders, besides fighting a gigantic competitor, are also fighting a cheater who has the advantages of a public prosecutor. This situation must lead us to consider all the prosecutors in order to turn off this disloyal competition and tax the profits which produce electronic trade. Let's say, by the way, that this way, to set the Amazon platform from logistics ad hoc But let us now proceed to explain the axes for development. The first three have been introduced, the education, the new model of government, and the equality of choice; the fourth is to strengthen the politics of the establishment. A lot of things have been done in this area. We have mentioned it, in most cases, with good faith and good intentions, but, from the state of the sector, it is plain that it has not been enough. We do not say: thousands of thousands of people and thousands of jobs that have disappeared in the last few years say it out loud. It is clear that the institutions and the complete balance of what the sector has done will have to be made to correct mistakes, to fill up gaps, and to strengthen enterprises which have been successful. We believe that the starting-point of all politics is association. It is not our paper to define the map of the associations of commerce, which is the result of self-denial. But we must try to promote the interaction of all actors, to define one's functions properly, and to align it to the strategic work-grounds defined by all of us. The situation is not in vain discussions to waste our efforts. I'm thinking about Lost. From what has been said, associations ought to be preserved and strengthened, but not to weaken their critical character or to interfere with it. It is essential that the associations of merchants should receive a financial sum, as unions, parties, corporations, and many other operators receive each according to the measured degree of representation. It is essential to give the preference to the opinions of the associations, and also to give them the care and management of the designs which they undertake, because they are the best known to the sector, because the sector is themselves. It's hard to understand how to arrange a series of exams that will take the inspection's technical office and not to know anything about the associations, much less when they are naked. It's just an example, but unfortunately it's my first example. Bonas, technical offices, city program, transmission, innovation program, formation... these are undertakings which ought to be developed by traders, and which are avoided by continual critical evaluation, with the will to improve the means. A local commerce must also have a solution for local products. The question is not only how we sell it, but how we produce it. From the first sector to the world of fashion, as artificers to all fashion products, euscal trade must open the gates to the euscal products. The "Made in Basque Country Office" must be encouraged, because the producers of Eusscal make the same contribution as small commerce, and require the same protection. We must multiply links between the larger, small, medium-and-circle producers, and this must be done in a organized and systematic dynamic. Gauza gehiago egin behar dira. We consider it necessary to open a specific line of intervention to promote local trade in non-central areas of the capitals, in the forgotten neighborhoods, articulating a policy agreed with the sector for the revitalization of these secondary areas through specific promotion and awareness, training, zonal specialization, shock plans in especially desert areas. We also believe that it is important to boost local trade in small municipalities, where trade is of basic social importance, even for the most basic supply. We propose to encourage the practices of singularisation in retail establishments, since only differentiation will allow them to provide their customers with a plus that will make them choose them. We need to facilitate the continuity or new implementation of the singular trade in the central areas of the cities in order to avoid the cloning effect and to propel a commercial offer of quality and differentiated, articulating, for this, a policy consensual with the sector, because seeing the same multinationals and franchises monopolizing the center of all the cities impoverishes us commercially and culturally and, moreover, bores us and uniformizes us. We must protect the shops that have lasted over time and those that have a remarkable architectural or furniture value, creating specific figures of protection for traditional and historical shops that help the continuity of those establishments that have already become social and emotional heritage. Adaptation to the digital world occupies such a high priority between trade promotion measures that we believe this task must become, in itself, a specific and priority line of intervention. Basque trade must accelerate its progress towards the digital age and, despite the shock caused by the disruptive emergence of e-commerce Let's wrap this up. Although 30 minutes seem to give for everything, they can be kept short in making a review of a sector as broad and complex as that of trade, so I will leave for further intervention an important reflection on the competitive framework of trade and on the invasion by the State of this area by means of premeditated intrusive basic legislation. But in the last of the axes to be developed today, that of labor rights in the sector, we must also refer to the pernicious influence of the state framework with regard to the rights of people working in trade. Large commercial areas have a state agreement. This agreement allows these large areas to have a regulation of recruitment, wages and redundancies which favours the company to the detriment of labour rights. Apart from precarious working conditions themselves, this represents a new advantage in terms of labour costs compared, for example, to a small local distribution company whose workers are subject to the Gipuzkoa collective trade agreement. Again, worse working conditions and advantage for the big thanks to the state framework. We need a framework of our own for collective bargaining, which creates agreements and conditions adapted to our reality and our economic possibilities, also in the trade sector. The commercial sector is also a very feminized sector. We know that women's average income is 23.4% below that of men in the Basque Autonomous Community, among other factors, because they occupy less valued positions or because, perhaps, certain positions are less valued because they are traditionally occupied by women. In any case, it is clear that fighting for the dignity of employment in trade would bring added benefit by limiting the bloody wage gap between men and women. Workers have a right to have a party on holiday days. It's obvious that even a company who's never interrupting production is compelled to work on days off, but consumption and leisure aren't necessarily connected. If the hours of a family or a group of friends aren't the same, the members of that group or family will not be able to spend days together. It's either a question for culture or for friendship. If it is a general criterion to make a festival on Sundays and on official holidays, it must also be so for the labourers of the business. From this point of view, we accuse and reject all the efforts which have been made as a pretext for competition or tourism, especially to the great commerce, to permit it to be opened on holiday days. We retake the right to all the employees of this sector, whether wages or autonomists, on holiday days. Basque trade, small trade, local trade, proximity trade, life-long shops are in a delicate situation, leading to years of declines in sales, establishments and jobs. It is time to start reversing this situation or at least, in the first phase, to stop it. This requires action on the factors that are causing this deterioration, neutralizing the unfair advantages enjoyed by other distribution formats, and improving and renewing policies to promote small trade. It is an effort that starts with social awareness, because it is citizenship that, with its final purchasing action, determines which format is successful, but to this end the institutions must also assume their role, showing that citizenship the importance and advantages of small trade and acting also in relation to these sectoral policies in proportion to the importance of the sector. All actors involved in the definition and implementation of trade policies need to act in a coordinated manner, share information and try to row in the same direction and, if possible, synchronised. That does not mean, in any way, that there can only be one vision. There must also be room for debate and sometimes for discrepancy. The plurality of the associative tissue is part of its wealth, but coordination and transfer of information are essential, even if there is no full tuning. There's still a lot to do. And that's good news because it means we still have a chance to breathe new air into traditional trade. Today we have tried to focus on the trade sector and its needs. I know that a good number of proposals will be adopted today. Everyone has to act from their sphere of responsibility and the parliamentary group of Euskal Herria Bildu has done so by convening this plenary, which gives continuity to a sustained dynamic of support for small trade. Many times from the trade sector we are reminded, in a comparative way, of the broad budgetary support received by the agricultural sector, which accounts for only 1% of the gross domestic product. We do not deny the need for this support, which seems entirely fair to us, because the primary sector, apart from developing an activity as important as providing us with the livelihood to stay alive, is also responsible for the management of the rural environment, of most of the space, of most of the territory. The budget allocated to the agricultural sector considers it, in a timely manner, not only as an economic activity, but as an activity necessary to maintain life in rural areas and to articulate the landscape and the territory in an appropriate way. It is the same consideration that we must give to the trade sector. We must also understand that people dedicated to trade are also builders and caretakers of the landscape, of the environment – in this urban case – and as such must be the subject of an added projection. It's the deal they deserve. We don't want to see the black of drawn blinds in our streets. the color of the open and living shops. Let's save the little trade, push the little trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u2	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. The rest of the teams' turn. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u3	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. We are in the eleventh legislature of this House and, without fear of error, I can say that it is the legislature that we have most talked about the retail trade sector in this house and in which we have been accompanied more often by representatives of the retail trade sector. So, good morning, thank you very much, once again, for joining us. Since the People's Group we have been causing you to be here for the initiatives we have put forward in this legislature, but we will continue to present and talk about retail trade as often as necessary. Commercial activity is a strategic sector for the Basque Country, accounting for 13.68 % of Basque GDP and contributing 15 % of the Social Security affiliates of the total Basque economy. Indeed, as the representatives of the associations of retailers so often show us with the data, this is not shown in the government's budget estimates. The budget law usually discriminates against other sectors such as the primary and secondary sectors, which have a 31-fold budget, but I want to make a point: the primary sector in its budgets has an important amount that does not correspond to the economy or money of this autonomous community, but is the Brussels aid. This, therefore, seems to be the case in the budgets. It is this issue that encourages the Group of the European People's Party when we have had the opportunity to improve budget lines through the appropriate amendments to the budget and to correct this situation of discrimination. Thus, in the 2018 financial year with our amendments we were able to bring an increase of 16% in measures aimed at the dynamism of the sector and its associative fabric, budget in force at this time by the Law of extension 2/2019, which this department refuses to comply with as agreed. What is the challenge we have to face? We understand from the People's Group that our work from the administrations must be how to improve the competitiveness of the retail sector in the Basque Country, how we achieve the recovery of private consumption on a permanent and sustained basis, how we improve the quality of service, how we guarantee a good level of customer satisfaction, how we create quality employment in the retail sector. This can help us to have better results than our competitors, but, in addition, we must achieve this goal at the lowest possible cost, and for this it is essential to incorporate innovation into commercial activity, the renewal or updating of our businesses, incorporate new services or processes, improved and adapted to new market demands and demands, which allow us greater business benefits. There are three areas to be taken into account when we talk about improving the competitiveness of trade. On the one hand, there are the internal processes proper to trade or business enterprises, emphasizing those factors that determine their activity. On the other hand, they are their external processes, driving business alliances and strengthening the role of their partnerships. And finally, there is the environment, the urban hubs that must help the commercial activity have the best possible conditions to facilitate and promote its activity. These are the agents, the main ones, the ones who raise the blind, the ones who undertake, the ones who bet on a business. Nearly 25,000 entrepreneurs in the Basque Country. I say almost because the actual data we work with is from 2017. That's what the statistics we have today give us, that's what Eustat gives us. So, here we have a deficit, which I'll talk about later. I am talking about groupings, also sectoral ones, of associations of traders. And finally, the administrations, each within their own sphere – local, autonomous, state – which must contribute to a balanced management of the commercial activity and the urban environments where this activity takes place. They should also provide the sector with tools to help improve its competitiveness. This is what happens, the coordination and the collaboration between the different agents, and that has been working between the department and the sectoral representatives, with some discrepancy, this normal, logical passage broke, broke in this legislature, in 2018, the terms changed, went from the collaboration to the confrontation, in the Budget Law 2018, approved by agreement between the Basque Government and the People's Group, new budget items were incorporated, in some cases, and an increase in quantity of others, in order to force the actions for commercial dynamism of proximity, especially in urban areas with low commercial density, looking for minimum commercial endowments in these spaces. Actions to be implemented by associations and groups of traders, because we understand that they are closest to commercial activity, can carry them out at lower structural costs and know perfectly well the case studies of each area and subsector. Important items, such as the Hirigune programme, so that the associations could activate measures to activate the commercial fabric of their municipalities, expanded in a significant way; increased funds to increase the number of technical offices for commercial dynamism and so that the management costs of the associations with offices could be subsidized, given that they have to cover all trade in their area of action; various agreements for modernization of the sector. As I said earlier, we managed to increase the trade budget by 16%. However, the Government turned to the budget and released the aid orders by amending the text so that the budget for associations was reduced. The management cost subsidy to associations is eliminated, something that only happens in this department, because in the others it does not work this way, so that, from the budgeted point of view, 20% is left by the government for their free disposal. This doesn't look like collaborating, does it? Nor does it seem that it is working together to eliminate the order of distribution of the surplus to the requested departure, which was always done. The Government is once again left with a percentage of the item. As can be seen, the orders are drafted in such a way that the Government, the department, is making a free disposal hut at the expense of the meagre provisions for trade in consignments. The Government has not had the associative structure to implement entrepreneurship aid to municipalities and other partners. Distributive training aids for associations, which had always existed, were eliminated and changed into an agreement, with chambers of commerce as intermediaries, for the development and implementation of the Basque retail training programme The time of the fellows in the technical offices of commercial dynamism has been reduced. There is a clear confrontation with associationism from the moment that the points of being associated are reduced from five to one in order to opt for the programmes of modernization of commercial establishments. This is a direct attack on associationism because it undermines the interest of being associated. All of these changes involve loss of partners. The trade budget no longer deals with trade, partnerships and sectoral actors. The axis of the 2020 budget – which we met a few days ago – is aimed at the municipalities, the chambers of commerce, the agencies... These items are higher than those for trade and partnerships. He told them that, in order to have a competitive retail trade, it was necessary to collaborate with trade, associations and administrations, as collaborators in order to order the activity and the environments in which it takes place. Today we feel that there is more interest in looking for partners outside the sector, such as development agencies, chambers..., which, yes, offer funding for associations' structures, but empty them of content. This clearly undermines associationism and the representation of trade in decision-making forums. This is of great concern to us, because it is essential that the retail sector participate in the activity being carried out by the Department of Commerce. It is the front-line agents, it is the agents who are dedicated to putting in place and implementing these measures, therefore, if we do not have their vision, their contributions, we will hardly be right in the diagnosis and the implementation of the measures. Just as in its day we were concerned about the closure of the Basque Country Trade Observatory Ikusmer, an observatory, a model tool for other autonomous communities, with a path of success. Just when the observatory was closed here, in Navarra its observatory was set in motion based on the one here, copy and sign, image of Ikusmer. We were announced an alternative megaproject of the future, which we never knew, and now, surprisingly and after different news, in a waste of originality, we will have – so I see in the budgets – three observatories, one per territory. And who's going to start it, then who's going to be? The innovative element par excellence, something that we have discovered: chambers of commerce, to which, despite their limited relationship traditionally with the retail sector, today they are awarded everything relating to retail trade. Now they drink everything, everything seems little to them and everything they can choose. To give a given, look at the composition of your plenary sessions. If I go to the 36-member Chamber of Alava, two belong to the retail trade. The rest are precision mechanics industry, metal processing industry, manufacturing industry, energy and water industry, transport industry, service of financial institutions, construction industry, chemical industry... They may be their activities – and they are – very important activities, but they are theirs: wholesale trade, export missions and support to large-scale industry. But the relationship they have had with retail trade, we all know, has been very limited. And in fact, in some programmes that have been awarded to them for some time now, they have had to go to the corresponding association next, to help them start them up. Therefore, we believe that this needs an important review; I do not dismiss any cooperating agent, but each to the right extent. And I am surprised that the government is being filled in by saying that we must face the competitiveness of the Basque commercial sector and do so without the sector, or rather against the sector in some cases. The policies and actions to be promoted must be agreed with the sector, because otherwise it will pass as with the campaign launched by the government, this campaign these days, Save local retail trade, in danger of extinction. Your hand's gone, ladies and gentlemen. Around 25,000 retail establishments, shops ranging from food products, beverages, tobacco..., which are around, according to data from the Eustat, between 6,750 establishments; 810 establishments of technological and communication equipment; 3,579 dedicated to personal equipment and household equipment; 1,544, cultural and recreational items; 2,799, to other non-specialized sectors; almost 9,000, to more minority specialized sectors... Ladies and gentlemen, each of them deserves a respect, he deserves a recognition of his efforts to keep the business on its feet and an immense thanks for lifting the blind of his establishment every day, even though he knows that there are many days that can pass almost blank. Of course, we are at a difficult time for the trade sector, so we are here, but it is not "in danger of extinction". The Basque country trade, according to the last DAFO data made by Ikusmer, says the following – it is true, as I said, that it is an ancient data from our point of view – and, as I told you, this last DAFO data made by Ikusmer said: we have a close trade, which allows you to know the customer well, his tastes and his needs; the vast majority are located in urban centers, focus of attraction of potential buyers; they have a high specialization in differentiated product and good quality of service; the usual clientele is fairly faithful, which helps them to maintain a minimum fixed income; the average age of the businessman, of the Basque trade manager is between 43 and 45 years, the average age of the Basque trades is an average of 25 years... Therefore, there is a high percentage of consolidated trade, with a low level of indebtedness, a veteran trade, which better supports the economic swings that can be given. They are large job generators, 15% of Basque memberships. Therefore, it is not good to send catastrophic messages because it is not real. Why is this happening? It simply happens by not analyzing the campaign with the sector, something that seems so basic, so logical, but that has not been done. That is why we have had to see in the press a complaint from traders who have felt unreflected in that slogan. We can look at the trade we have here, neighbor of Parliament, which in his blind says, in his window says: "Customers, thank you for trusting in small trade. We are the soul of our city." For, indeed, many thanks to this trade and to so many in the Basque Country, who raise the blind every day and care for the citizen who wants to get close. As an Administration, we have an obligation and responsibility to collaborate with trade so that it can be adapted to new forms of sales, which establish global competition and require action to enable trade to be adapted to new channels of distribution and communication. How to make your activity more attractive for the young public, for future consumers? How to incorporate complementary experiences into trade according to the subsector in question? The population pyramid has a direct influence on the retail sector and also requires specific adaptation. On the other hand, expenses increase mercilessly, rents, social costs, taxes... All this is encouraging the proliferation of empty premises, which have an effect on the environment and diminishes the commercial appeal in areas that were once on the rise. All these issues are important, but what is really urgent, from our point of view as a People's Group, is the digitisation of retail trade in the face of the proliferation of online platforms According to all experts, the best formula for selling physical product is that it combines the online mix offline Knowing that this is coming, little or nothing we've done since the administration, case omitted this. We have not emphasized this. The little has been done from the associations themselves, from the trades – some on their own initiative, others from the associated groups – but, really, the department has not had a clear line of work on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, before these situations, from the administrations, and from each one of their powers – the autonomous, the foral, the local – we must work together to create opportunities and favourable conditions for the retail sector to be able to carry out its business in the best conditions. And for this there are no magic wands, you have to do it by the hand of the sector. Because the trader, the trader, is the axis of commercial activity. Who lifts the blind, who faces all adversities, who wins or loses is the merchant. The Administration is not the central axis of this, the collaborating agents of the Administration are not the fundamental axis. Traders and associations themselves must develop the policies of the retail trade sector. That's impervious. Administrations are not trade. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I shoe your shoes, each in our field, to do the best I can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u4	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u5	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselor, counselor, representatives of the Euskadi associative fabric, good morning, welcome. Indeed, we are faced with an interesting debate and I hope that today's outcome will also be productive, because Basque trade is in a process of conversion, at a time of change of model, which, after the crisis, is also faced with new consumption habits, new forms of commercial distribution that have an important impact on Basque society and that oblige us to articulate efficient and cross-cutting policies, which I hope we know how to structure through resolutions and actions that have a broad consensus today. The Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs – after her appointment and an appearance last June to set out the strategic lines of her department – indicated to the Directorate for Trade that important work was being done to ensure that this sector, in the process of conversion and modernization, could face a scenario of major disruptive changes and, in addition, of great calm. Changes that are linked to factors such as technological development, online trade Four are the pillars on which the trade strategy of the Basque Government department is based, with concrete objectives and lines of action that are further evaluated annually: the axis of modernization and rejuvenation, business competitiveness, the commercial management of urban environments and the improvement of the effectiveness of trade policies since the strengthening of public leadership. The evolution of the set of indicators of the analysis of the Trade Master Plan 2017/2020, both from the perspective of consolidation and from the perspective of modernization, draws a scenario of lights and shadows in which conversion and sectoral modernization walk hand in hand. A smaller sector quantitatively in terms of enterprise numbers, but more robust and robust qualitatively in terms of modernisation, profitability and employment. Thus, although the general trend would aim in 2018 at the stabilization of commercial spending, with nuances by branches or formats, compared to other alternatives of consumer spending, the commercial model to satisfy this consumption continues to be in transformation and still has a wide track. The Basque Socialists wanted to start in this debate from an objective analysis, from a real and not intuitive diagnosis, such as the follow-up report of the Trade Master Plan 2017/2020, which was carried out in 2018, to then, contrasting that report with the lines of action of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, in addition to the proposals that have been put forward by the various agents of the sector, and analyzing the debates and actions that we have also agreed in this House, to be able to have an overall view of the needs of the sector and the situation in which we find ourselves. In order to be able to propose, in the end, responses and solutions to the challenges of the future of the sector, possible solutions, effective solutions, broad consensus and involving all parties, social partners and the various forms of the sector's associative fabric, as well as the public administration, to generate as soon as possible a trend of favorable evolution of the sector. Therefore, if we take into account the framework indicators in the framework of the Trade Master Plan, we can contextualise the evolution of the sector from two perspectives, and they are complementary: from the consolidation of the sector and from the modernization. From the perspective of the consolidation of the sector, the structural conversion that the commercial model has been experiencing in the last decade, associated with different global trends of change, both of supply – falling number of establishments, loss of weight of self-employment and of small productive units in favour of a new business model with fewer and more solid ones – or also from the point of view of demand with the loss of weight of commercial expenditure associated with the drift of consumer spending towards other services and effects of the crisis experienced, which generated a new, more prudent, more informed consumer profile, conclude, this framework and these indices conclude that the number of small establishments – by 2.1% – which increases the number of social security affiliations – by 0.3% – and which, although wage employment – by 1.2% – increases, decreases self-employment – by 1.7% – is reduced. They say that there is a slow but progressive gain in the role of the stronger companies; that the employment ratio per establishment is increasing from 3.30 to 3.38, while the trade margin is consolidated and improved, and from 24% to 25%. The commercial density remains at 12 per 1,000 inhabitants, and remains significantly higher than the Spanish density and European density. And the weight of the sector on the gross domestic producer resists and even grows. And from the perspective of the modernization of the sector, linked to the renewal of the commercial park on its double side, people in the process of entrepreneurship and succession, on the one hand, and the forms of sale and competitiveness, on the other, this evolution points out that electronic commerce is opening up continuously, both in terms of companies that sell online online We are therefore moving towards a smaller sector in terms of the number of companies, a lower commercial density, which is approaching these ratios in both the state and the European Union. But they're more competitive companies. It is also true, however, that a process of transformation such as the one described is not simple. The modernization and rejuvenation of the commercial park is complex. And high-businesses, both in terms of new businesses and succession, are not easy. Thus, the pace of high business in the sector, although part of a historically high dynamic, declines significantly. The process described provides a sectoral moment of dualization that is not free of unwanted effects. For example, with a large, ageing group with no competitive response capacity that is still going to feed a considerable fall, and a small but growing group of progressively more competitive and modern businesses, nurtured both since the transformation of existing ones, through competitive improvement, and since the creation of new business projects, through entrepreneurship. And so we are faced with a process that the sector is experiencing, which is not a neutral process, neither social nor spatially, and which makes institutional policies of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, in a broad sense, the two strategic tools of consolidation and modernization of the sector in order to be able to drive it, and which places the spatial reading of it as a key element in ensuring not only the commercial service to citizens, but also the quality of life and social cohesion of our urban model. This is why it is also very interesting to know, even if in a succinct way, the evolution of the lines of action of each of the axes, in order to determine their consequences with regard to the achievement of the objectives set out in the Trade Master Plan 2017-2020. With regard to the modernization and rejuvenation of the sector, which was intended to transform the image and social perception of trade, professionally prestige it and stimulate and accompany its material modernization and the rejuvenation of its enterprises as a background for a progressive competitive update, three lines of action were proposed: communication, entrepreneurship and the renovation of facilities. Communication has become aware of the importance of incorporating at all levels a language and a more up-to-date and coherent image with social reality and with the transformation that the sector is undergoing in terms of innovation. As regards the line of entrepreneurship, in the context of the growing ageing of the sector, in addition to the line of accompaniment of succession processes, which is already coming from afar, a new programme or line of work has been set up to support any commercial entrepreneurship initiative from a dual perspective: the direct way of aid to businesses and self-employed persons who have opened a commercial enterprise or expanded an existing one with new business routes to cover primarily investment in assets and start-up costs. And also the way of collaboration with municipalities through grants either to studies aimed at identifying initiatives that favor entrepreneurship, or to facilitate the development of existing projects and the municipal investment associated with them. In the area of business competitiveness, the objective of this axis was to boost the business competitiveness of the sector through the widespread improvement of management standards, the digitisation and adaptation of the omnichannel context and the strengthening of the skills of their jobs. To achieve this axis, five different lines of work were proposed to address competitiveness from different perspectives: management and competitive improvement, digitisation, sectoral studies, unique projects of competitive cooperation, employment and qualifications. To move forward on this axis, the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs has focused on providing Basque trade with the tools to overcome the digital divide. Programs like e-commerce online The module has been incorporated for advanced companies, companies with online trajectory In the field of the commercial management of urban environments, the aim is to deepen it through the enrichment and differentiation of traditional interventions, in order to optimize its transformative potential and efficiency, and, at the same time, also to promote the perception of the territory as a space for convergence of different policies and lines of aid. Two lines of activity have been worked out in this area: sectoral hybridisation and commercial dynamism, and the innovation line and the enrichment of dynamism activities. Sectoral hybridization, spatial differentiation and the approach of convergence of interventions in urban space have been explicitly incorporated into Hirigune's aid orders to promote innovation in urban and dynamic actions on urban environments and to introduce the look on neighbourhoods as a neighbourhood trading space in an explicit and complementary way to the traditional commercial urban centre. Through Hirigune, policies are put at the service of the economic and social development objectives of the most sensitive areas. That is why we continue to bet on the proximity trade that creates an urban plot in our neighbourhoods, in our towns and in our cities, with a particular impact on which unemployment rates are higher than the average of the autonomous community. As regards the line of activity called "Innovation and enrichment of the activities of dynamism", it is clear that the activities represent historically a very important part of the policies developed by the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumers, because they allow to make the sector more visible, they allow to raise the awareness of society of the important vertebrating role that trade plays at the social level. At the economic level too, it generates consumer flows, increases viability and profitability and promotes the animation of urban environments, which is a fact that also facilitates the anchoring of the population, their neighborhoods and their municipalities. And this line of activity is essentially channelled through three lines: by the Hirigune program; by the activity of the urban platforms of the three capitals, in which the Department of Commerce, through the coverage of the cost of the management structure of the same, draws a municipal contribution from similar municipalities – this generates a wide range of actions with an important dynamism component; and a third way, nominative collaboration agreements with various entities covering territorial dynamism activities and/or unique projects in this field. As for the fourth axis, the policy translation tools to the sector and territory, the objective was to improve the effectiveness of trade policies since strengthening public leadership in the design, implementation and monitoring of trade policies, and strengthening and optimizing the human and technical resources available for this purpose. To move trade policies to the territory, the Trade Master Plan identified four lines of work: internal own resources, field resources and community and municipal ecosystem, integration and convergence of policies, and the creation and management of urban platform management in the three capitals and chambers of commerce. Through the meetings that the Department of Commerce has held with commercial actors, they have been aware of the time when these aid lines and programmes are at hand, what are the priorities for the future and what will be the new actions that will be developed in collaboration with the sector. The department has also prepared a battery of studies to carry out an analysis of the new realities of the online retail sector online Following the creation of the department's statistical body, work is under way on a tourism and cross-cutting trade monitor that offers market information to the sector in a structural way and with an online tool Based on the analysis and evaluation of the strategies, government work lines and policies implemented through the Trade Master Plan 2017-2020, and reflecting on the evolution of the indicators, the action lines are set out in the strategic axes and their necessary modifications to make the programmes and projects affecting the trade sector more effective. And in addition to this strategy that the department has followed for the field of the commercial sector in Basque, this House – the Basque Parliament – has also had its political activity of debate and proposal regarding the trade sector. It seems to me appropriate and important to highlight the fact that in the first half of 2018 – in connection with the completion of the work of the presentation for the recovery and reactivation of the Left Margin, Mining Zone and Oarsoaldea –, specifically in the shock plan, of the actions being carried out from the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption as regards aid MEC, aid Hirigune (associations), aid Hirigune (municipalities), aid to entrepreneurs, to commercial enterprises and aid to entrepreneurship to municipalities. In addition to strengthening entrepreneurship aid for enterprises and municipalities, the inter-company cooperation project from Ezkerraldenda, Federation of Trade Associations of the Left Margin and Mining Zone is expressly incorporated. There is also the Urban Rehabilitation Program, based on the regeneration of the commercial window that is part of these actions. And so, as far as we are concerned, in this Parliament we have dealt with various and multiple aspects affecting the trade sector. The Socialist Group has also carried out a number of parliamentary control initiatives to the Government, including in relation to aid to the Euskadi municipalities and trade associations for the improvement of the trade fabric, bearing in mind that trade is facing a situation of disruptive change. Trade is moving towards globalization, and local trade needs to have its competitiveness and strengthening tools more and more clearly defined. For this reason, the Basque socialists understand the need to know what tools the department was putting in place to support local trade, to boost their competitiveness as a fundamental element for the consolidation of employment and the dynamism of towns and cities, and the efficient management of urban spaces. We also ask about the situation of proximity trade in Euskadi. The small Basque trade offered close and personalized attention to the citizenry, it is a backbone of life in the neighbourhoods, in the towns and cities of Euskadi, and in recent years this trade that will vertebrate our communities, provides many jobs in addition, faces threats with the new models that propitiate information technologies and the globalization of markets. That is why we were able to know the diagnosis made by the department itself, through its adviser, and the measures to be taken to help maintain employment in this sector. In relation to the development of e-commerce programs and applications e-commerce With regard to the new aid for entrepreneurship in the Basque commercial sector, we also promote an initiative to know the characteristics of the new aid programme for commercial entrepreneurship for both enterprises and self-employed persons, and to know the balance sheet that the adviser made, because we consider it necessary to know what tools the department put and put in for the support of entrepreneurship and the balance sheet of that programme. Without entrepreneurial people taking the lead and promoting channels of access to trade, it is unthinkable that our business model, a model whose main objective must be the consolidation of quality employment in the sector – with a special focus on women's access to entrepreneurship – will be maintained or improved, and that it will also enable the dynamism of towns and cities, and have, of course, efficient management of urban spaces. In the debate of the Basque Commercial Distribution Observatory, in which the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups presented an amendment to the whole that did not come to vote, the Government, in its report on the implementation of initiatives in the first half of 2018, pointed out that Decree No. 124/2018 of 30 July 2018 establishing the specific statistical body of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, establishing its organization and operation, has led to the creation of a specific statistical body to carry out statistical functions in these areas. The new Euskadi Trade Observatory has been redefined and is about to be launched, which will certainly be presented to the sector before the end of the year, in order to have indicators and benchmarks. In the non-legislative proposal regarding the sectoral territorial plan, in the June 2018 plenary agreement in which the groups, at least the Socialist Group, did not participate in the vote, in the approval of all points, we proposed to request the Trade Advisory Bureau to appoint new members, in this way, and in the framework of this forum, to be able to gather the opinion on this and other matters of trade unions, workers, employers and other agents in the sector, such as the associative fabric that make up it. The Basque Government, recognizing the value of associationism in the field of trade, maintains with the various associations and platforms, as well as with the different actors in the commercial fabric, regular contacts that lead to the improvement of policies for the promotion, promotion and strengthening of the sector. In particular, the budget proposal put forward by the department for 2019 proposed a figure close to EUR 1 million for grants for the final expenditure of Euskadi's business partnerships and platforms. In this way, the Department's trade support programmes and policies incorporate a global vision and are developed for the benefit of the sector as a whole. On 30 July, the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption communicated to the Governing Council the programme of aid to technical offices for trade – a programme that aims to promote processes related to innovation, quality and new technologies, and also to promote collaboration strategies at the municipal level or in each distribution chain – and highlighted as a novelty the increase in the number of technical offices that would host the programme, which went from 38 to 42. On 8 March we unanimously adopted an initiative in this House on the consequences of implementing the Bolkestein directive. The Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumers noted that, since the 2017 call, the programme of aid aimed at encouraging zonal strategies of cooperation, dynamism and competitiveness had been modified, so that the necessary actions to adapt commercially and the urban infrastructures of the municipalities, including urban equipment, can be considered as aid, provided that the actions are carried out in areas with commercial content and are aimed at the conditioning of specific areas for the development of the street and occasional trade located in the urban environment. In the bill on urgent special measures to boost small Basque trade, the agreement we adopted by a majority in this House was that we urged the Basque Government and "the competent institutions to analyse, within the Tax Coordination Body, taxation linked to trade". Secondly, we urged the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption of the Basque Government to analyse the implementation of the name 'traditional tent' and 'historical tent', together with the agents of the sector, at the Euskadi Trade Office, and the criteria for aid to promote this type of trade". We also urged, in that agreement, the "Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption of the Basque Government to work and agree, with the agents of the sector and in the area of their competence, the criteria on timetables and the establishment of periods of discounts, so that, together with the Government of the State, the most beneficial measures for trade in the Basque Country can be taken, allowing effective reconciliation and decent working conditions for persons working in the commercial sector". Fourthly, we insisted on that agreement approved by the "Vasco Government to include in the general budget of Euskadi the programmes, measures and aid that the most consensus bring together in the commercial sector and are incorporated into the planning instruments that are approved, increasing the annual budget in the area of trade by at least the average percentage increase experienced by the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption". Finally, a final legislative proposal, which was also adopted in this Parliament, on the promotion of local and local trade, urging "the competent institutions to analyse, within the Tax Coordination Body, taxation linked to trade". These have been the initiatives we have discussed in this House with regard to the commercial sector. After analysing it, the Basque Socialists believe that an appeal should be made to the Basque administrations, the various actors involved in the retail sector and the Basque society in general to achieve a broad consensus on the articulation of measures for the promotion and preservation of Basque proximity trade, given its importance in employment, economic activity and also in the social articulation of the country. The challenges and conversions of the trade sector in the Basque Country must be accompanied by the approach, from due respect for the competition sphere established by law, of concrete measures directed at the sector and the relevant public administrations, with the aim of improving the conditions of Basque-speaking trade, with the prior opinion of the professionals in the sector, associations, trade unions and the rest of the actors in the trade sector, as well as that of the administrations themselves. The Basque Government must deepen its inter-institutional collaboration in order to integrate local and unique trade also into the tourism promotion strategies of the Basque Country, taking into account its potential as an element that generates decentralized economic returns. The Basque Socialists are convinced that the terms "collaboration" and "coordination" are the key principles for determining how the Administration works with the social partners, with the retail sector, with the social partners, with the retail sector, with a view to achieving the adaptation of trade in the Basque Country to the objectives of sustainable development. From the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra we also consider that among the challenges for the future of the Basque trading model is the visibility and, therefore, the impetus of the important role of women in commercial economic activity. It is therefore necessary to promote and encourage the adoption by the public administration of social and equality criteria which give priority to the equal inclusion of women in the labour market and to indefinite employment in the field of the Euskadi trade sector. The Basque Socialists consider it necessary to strengthen trade policies since the strengthening of public leadership and governance, maintaining a constant and fluid dialogue with the trade sector and with all its actors. The Basque commercial model must also contribute to the social articulation of the territories, must contribute sustainability, must contribute job creation, diversity, innovation, security and well-being to Basque citizenship. We believe that we must continue to promote and improve the complementarity and synergies between sectoral competitiveness policies and those for the dynamism of urban spaces, through the creation of these coordination spaces, in order to bring about the convergence of zone and trade policies and the optimisation of public-private collaboration. We also believe that the Basque Government should work and mediate with other institutions that are competent to achieve effective reconciliation and decent working conditions for people working in the commercial sector. There must be a policy of collaboration and inter-institutional coordination to improve the conditions of proximity trade, always counting on the opinion of the professionals in the sector, the actors concerned and the institutions that we are involved in. The awareness of Basque society about the work of retailing, local trade, such as that currently being carried out, is essential not only because of its involvement in the economy and employment, but also because it guarantees the balance of urban life in the towns of Euskadi. That is why the Basque Socialists support the work that the Basque Government is doing to position Basque retail trade in the Basque economy as a sector prepared and trained in the new circumstances and circumstances of our society's consumption, and that it knows how to reorient trade strategies and adapt them to the new situations that are imposed in a globalized economy, without losing on the road the most positive factors that Basque retail trade has and that make it unique and different. This is not self-congratulation, this is self-requirement. We're all involved. We all want the best for the Euskadi trade sector. I hope that today's work will contribute to that positive development. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u7	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to welcome all the representatives of the different and diverse groups in the commercial sector who have come to this House today. Trade is to a city like skin on the face, it prints character, to the point where we can identify the dynamism or decadence of a place through the vitality of shops that are fundamental to making city. Commercial establishments are not only places in which to acquire goods and services necessary for our existence, but also give life to our streets and squares, acting as a space for the relationship between people, while dynamizing neighborhoods by encouraging economics, mobility and coexistence. That's why neighbourhoods with shops are living spaces, in which you want to walk, go to meet each other, discover new proposals; while neighborhoods without shops are empty, cold and insecure spaces. And precisely because of this, people go to places where there are shops because there are people there and because there are exchanges and because there is energy. Local businesses have been struggling for decades to resist the emergence of new sales formulas. First were the supermarkets, then came the big malls and, more recently, the e-commerce and the big internet sales platforms, forcing to take more care of the appearance of the establishments, to give greater specialization to the offer and to improve the identification and proximity with the customers. The outbreak of the 2008 crisis, coupled with an institutional policy of forgetting traditional trade in favour of gigantic shopping centres – such as the Zaldunborda macro-outlet in Hondarribia – to which more political support and public resources are devoted, has led to a feeling of loneliness and absence of a policy of specific support for neighbourhood trade as part of the revitalization of the cities and municipalities of Euskadi. Because in addition to fighting, surviving in these times, our small business must also reinvent itself, modernizing and updating its commercial offer to make it more attractive, incorporating new technologies, improving and adapting its establishments, and working for greater functional specialization, deploying more imaginative and creative campaigns that allow you to approach your potential customers and establishing loyalty relationships that are effective. Too much load for such fragile shoulders. The trade sector is in a very worrying situation in our community, especially in what we now have, which is local and proximity trade. While the growth of the gross domestic product tells us that technically we have left the crisis behind for a long time, however, Basque trade remains plunged into an unprecedented serious decline, and, instead of perceiving signs of revitalization, we are learning data that indicate that the situation is worsening in recent times. Thus, between 2008 and 2018, the number of commercial establishments has been reduced by 16%; the overall number of workers in the sector has been reduced by 2.8%, but among the self-employed and self-employed the decline has been of 7.8; that is, the loss of employment has focused on small trade. And in some subsectors, this situation is even more serious, reaching even 30% of the establishments that have disappeared in the last decade. There's more troubling data. Sales, for example, in Bizkaia's trade fell by 60 % in early 2018. The merchant associations of this territory have already stated that, probably, that year, 2018, was the worst in history for trade. In fact, 300 stores have been closed and sales are falling back. In the last decade, 2% of businesses have disappeared each year in Bizkaia. And in the rest of the territories the situation is also not very flattering because, for example, in the Donostia area, in the period 2008-2018, 900 shops have been lost, and in Gasteiz, almost 500. Behind this situation are several factors and reasons. On the one hand, the 2008 crisis brought about a decline in the purchasing power of the population, which has not yet been reversed, and that has limited the amount of money available for shopping. On the other hand, among the neoliberal measures adopted with the excuse of the crisis, some liberalizing measures have entered into force against local trade, always in favour of the big ones in the sector and always driven by the right-wing parties, the same ones that claim to promote entrepreneurship and self-employment. Thirdly, we have to mention that technological developments have brought about changes in the way purchases are made, with the e-commerce phenomenon being the clearest exponent, which has an annual growth of 25% in Euskadi and already accounts for 20% of sales. Finally, there are also other factors, such as inadequate public policies, that have not given the sector the support it needed, when they have not been directly harmful. In particular: the chronic insufficiency of budgets; the poor relations between industry associations and the Basque Government; the dissolution of the Basque Trade Observatory itself, Ikusmer; the lack of effectiveness of the sectoral territorial plan governing commercial spaces; the facilities given to large shopping centres or multinationals themselves in the e-commerce sector It is clear that these problems will not be solved by themselves and that a major effort must be made to turn this situation around. Citizenship, industry associations, parties and institutions will have to multiply efforts to boost local trade and we will have to do so because this sector is strategic and because its economic and social dimension is important. In fact, trade has a great weight in the Basque economy – almost 11% of GDP – and 140,000 jobs depend on the commercial sector in our community. That is why I would have to receive, we understand, a priority, deep and rigorous treatment. But in addition, small business brings other added values to society: it brings to the streets and cities and towns life, light, security; it strengthens social and personal networks, and guarantees the availability of products that are essential for our daily lives. An economic sector that is so important quantitatively and qualitatively deserves and requires very special attention from the institutions, even more, as we have said before, when it is in a very serious situation. To this end, the Basque Government approved, on 26 December 2017, the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption 2017-2020. However, the plan received fair and well-deserved criticism because in its design it offered little possibility of participating in the sector's associations and because in its conclusions it contained only measures without depth or originality. In addition, the Basque Government sent the strategic plan to Parliament in the form of a regular appearance, without giving parliamentary groups an option to make contributions and turning the whole procedure into a mere formal procedure. We therefore believe that we need to hold this plenary today so that we can all put on the table the specific aid and measures that we believe are necessary to defend, revitalize and enhance local and local trade in the Basque Country. Currently, in the Basque commercial sector, a worrying scenario is being drawn, where the small individual establishments, the family neighbourhood shops, are closed, in favor of the large commercial chains, multinationals (Zara, Primark, Decathlon, Media Markt, Mercadona...), as well as an Internet trade, which grows at two-digit rates. The loss of employment in small trade, mostly dominated by self-employed and self-employed entrepreneurs, to become precarious wage earners in large commercial chains, shows that the closure of establishments influences a business model that needs to be recovered, that of entrepreneurship. This development has meant that, for example, Euskadi has gone from being the territory of the state with a greater number of entrepreneurs to staying in line at the state level. According to the estimates of the associations themselves, the Basque Country has lost some 5,000 autonomous traders in the last ten years. These data highlight the paradox that employment in retail trade grew by 1.28% last year, while the closure of establishments, mainly in rural areas, also increased by 1.93%, which is almost 2%. It is clear that this situation occurs because employment data in the Basque trade sector do not take into account the loss of self-employed workers, who are responsible for almost half of the commercial fabric in the Basque country. Small trade has a delicate future, due to strong pressure from large areas and malls, and many are not able to cope with this pressure and end up unfortunately closing. We are very aware, from our parliamentary group, from Elkarrekin We can, that the pace of life, the timetables and, above all, the comfort push us to buy in large areas where we can find everything from 10:00 to 22:00, but we must return to the small business the fundamental role that belongs to it within the social and urban fabric, starting by promoting responsible consumption and consumption in the neighborhood shops. Strengthening local commerce helps to co-ordinate the neighborhood, and the neighborhood in general, because both the owners and the staff employed in these shops are normally people related to the neighborhood. Some of them have been for generations. People we know and greet every day, that we have close and that we meet day by day. Nothing small trade works, that result will affect us and us. Consuming in local businesses and strengthening the local economy is a good formula to contribute to their recovery. The money we invest in the shops in our neighborhood continues to circulate around the neighborhood itself, contributing to the economic prosperity of our nearby environment. Studies show that money spent on local businesses circulates in the neighborhood three times before disappearing in the general economy. This benefit will revert to people and families nearby, not to the profit account of large companies. Our state of well-being and quality of life will grow substantially by activating responsible and local consumption, as buying in local shops is investing in yourself. So let us rejoice for the good of the neighbor; his good is ours, though we do not believe him. The local shops also encourage the daily life of the neighborhood, give atmosphere and personality to the streets and fill them with people, turning them into transited areas; they also contribute to the vitality of the cities and to the improvement of the state of the historic helmets. Strolling through a neighborhood with a vibrant trade means seeing shop windows and being surprised by the activities and initiatives organized by them. A small company is the dream and the illusion of its leaders, of those who tried to imagine it, to take it forward and to care for it. Many of them have passed from generation to generation, from parents to daughters who have grown up in the same tent and who have learned their trade in it. It is worth supporting people who risk and undertake this adventure that involves opening up a business, putting in it a lot of time, effort money and affection, and contributing individually and collectively to the survival of the commercial establishments of all life. Local commerce is a real engine of consumption of local products and manufactured in the area. We are beginning to be surprised by the fact that tomatoes know to tomatoes and that the menu of the day is not composed exclusively of heated food. In our small trade we can find differentiated products, of which we know the origin, because they will come from farms, nearby gardens or local producers or producers, something doubly beneficial because it has an impact on the reduction and saving of long-distance transport. In addition, it allows us to connect with the cycles of nature by consuming seasonal products, food from our area, fresh and from the time we are, while supporting local farmers and producers. Another indisputable issue that small trade offers us is trust and personalized treatment. Behind the counter we find authentic specialists who will be able to advise us and advise us without any haste and whose knowledge and attention obviously bring added value to the simple act of buying. This same policy of exclusivity also means that in most cases the after-sales service is also impeccable and traders and traders will give us everything in their power to get out of their establishment with a desire to return. This form of consumption also causes us to buy what we need responsibly and by our own decision, and slows down the compulsive consumption of products that come through our eyes in these design shelves and so studiedly placed that we often see in the big malls. Unfortunately, local traders have to compete, not only for price, but for leisure, with these big malls and other big corporate businesses. In these days when the media often collect news of mass redundancies in the form of ERE, small businesses are the great ones harmed, as well as the great ones forgotten in the economic crises. The great bazaar of these large areas is a lower price on the products that sell us, but have we ever wondered how they achieve profits while reducing prices? After all the money spent on advertising and business marketing, in order to reduce their costs, large areas hide poor working conditions, precarious wages, exploitation to producers and farmers, to whom they sometimes force to sell below the cost of production, they also promote tax avoidance and the relocation of companies, through subcontracting to manufacturers from impoverished countries. This is how the benefits of many large multinationals in distribution are maximized. And on the other side of the coin, we find the small traders, burdened to arrive at the end of the month and with a lesser margin to lower prices, who, among other solutions, have assumed the 3% increase in VAT in order to try not to stifle their customers and consumers any more. Administrations should be aware of the need to encourage, assist and not hinder the existence of the small business that lies behind the most modest family business. However, it is undeniable that there is a passivity on the part of administrations towards small trade; there is a lack of legislation to protect it and protect it from unfair competition from large areas, because measures are needed to enable it to compete on the market on equal terms with them. Measures regulating such matters as opening and closing hours, fairness in the payment of taxes, the granting of opening licences, economic and financial conditions for suppliers, flexibility in the application of sanitary regulations, bank financing, aid and subsidies for the development of traditional activities and trades that are about to disappear, etc. Ultimately, there was and needs to be a trade law and a trade management policy that takes into account the important economic and social role played by small trade and that clearly takes advantage of it. Consuming in small trade is, at last, a conscious choice – not only personal, but also political – perhaps deeper than we have stopped to think. This is because shopping is one of our daily activities, in which citizens have at our disposal a fundamental tool for economic, social and consumer change. As consumers, we have a responsibility, but we also have a power: we can influence the progress of the economy and the world in a direct way; we have the opportunity to use our criterion of decision according to our convictions and to promote, through our patterns of purchase and consumption, and investment, the construction of a more just, more supportive and more sustainable society. There's nothing there. Therefore, if all the political groups agree with the diagnosis, if we all share that local and local trade is in a complicated situation, it is time to show that unanimity and to call together for concrete measures to help strengthen and boost this sector and, above all, to put it into practice. We understand that the moment is here and now, within the framework of this specific monographic plenary, where we can and must agree resolutions and agreements that really change and transform the current situation of small trade in Euskadi. Today it is up to us to complete a comprehensive and rigorous work, which cannot be left in an initiative or a set of initiatives, in a battery of proposals as a patch, elaborated and debated in a hurry and running. On the contrary, today it is up to us to transfer to the House a profound development of what is necessary for us and we have been defending since we entered this institution, and of what many representatives of the sector have been doing for years. Therefore, from Elkarrekin Podemos, we believe that it is necessary to move forward in resolutions aimed at promoting a city model based on preventing the degradation of the consolidated city and giving more prominence to neighbourhoods in the development of actions; to involve and coordinate institutional interventions, in order to carry out comprehensive actions that have a greater effective impact; to promote the coordination and involvement of all actors building living neighbourhoods, sustainable municipalities and habitable cities in the actions they develop in order to promote synergies, improve coexistence and join forces with a view to the development of the strategies they propose; to promote coordination and cooperation between different administrations and the private sector itself, in such a way as to enable a system of governance that brings together all actors linked to a stake in local trade and proximity; to understand, respect and integrate local potentialities and particularities, enabling the development of proximity trade that responds to the social needs of each place in a sustainable way; to evaluate and monitor the development of the actions, and to propose their adjustment and implementation with a view to optimizing the causes and to deepen the interventions. From Elkarrekin We can, as we have repeatedly stated, both in the Committee on Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs and in various parliamentary debates, understand the importance of small trade as a catalyst for the local economy. In addition, we argue that this type of trade is one of the pillars of a more sustainable city model, which helps to strengthen social cohesion and humanize the neighborhoods of our cities. In that unequal fight we turn and commit ourselves, and we expect that same attitude from the rest of the political groups. As far as our proposals are concerned, we have focused the same on several areas, on several issues, the first of which is the defence of local and neighbourhood trade, the strengthening of own associationism, and the creation and strengthening of the existing network of partnerships within the commercial sector and, of course, the limitation of large areas. One of the issues we also wanted to highlight was the issue of accessibility. We understood that there was a lot to do and a lot of work ahead in making all the commercial spaces in Euskadi accessible. In addition, in the face of the emergence of online commerce Furthermore, we believe that measures should be taken with regard to taxation, particularly with regard to large commercial areas, in addition to those which facilitate the entrepreneurship and development of trade, both local and local, and those which call for economic aid to strengthen small trade and local trade. In addition, we believe that we must be pedagogical and that we must bet on the local product, with awareness-raising campaigns, in both media and schools, or in specific consumer sectors, in order to promote, above all, sustainable consumption. Another important issue for Elkarrekin Podemos is the question of hours and working conditions. We believe that developing a sector and a sustainable sector must be based on quality jobs, jobs where working conditions are decent. In addition, we believe that it is important to make visible the work of women traders, producers, entrepreneurs and, in general, women in the commercial sector. We therefore call for the implementation of the gender perspective in all policies we develop with a view to strengthening local and local trade. As the last question, the Zaldunborda issue was mentioned earlier. We understand that there was a complex and complicated situation, where we spent three years without any legal limit to restrict the opening and expansion of large commercial establishments, which meant legal uncertainty. And that thanks to an initiative, both from Elkarrekin Podemos and from the other opposition groups, it was the one that promoted the adoption of the Trade Equipment Act in June, as there was an insistent inaction on the part of the parties that supported the Government. A law limiting the power of municipalities to authorize disproportionate shopping centres in the central areas of their municipalities. While the establishment of large, uncontrolled and indiscriminate commercial establishments is contrary to the general interest of society, not only because they do not favour proximity trade and promote a model of precarious and low-quality employment, but fundamentally because the impact of these large commercial areas directly affects the economic, social and environmental sustainability of the municipalities where they are built or expanded, and clearly harms those living in them. However, the Municipal Government of Hondarribia processed this approval. And without a doubt, the problems will multiply in an area that already has traffic and will place small trade on the brink of extinction. And more so if we are talking here today that we are concerned about the situation, and about these and other negative effects. This project will therefore generate the effects that we intended to avoid with the Commercial Establishments Act. And not only do we say this, but from the different groupings of associations and platforms for proximity trade have pointed out that all studies, carried out also in Europe, are unanimous in saying that these types of models destroy twice as many jobs they create, in addition to promoting precarious employment and promoting unfair competition, since they are large commercial centres that do not apply an employment agreement, but of the state, as well as scaring off other types of investment and making those areas desert. In other words, they represent an urbanism against the general interest. In addition, it should be added that in Zaldunborda the project would involve the destruction of the countryside landscape and endanger the area that protects the Natura 2000 network itself. At this point, we do not understand why the parties supporting the Government appeared and appeared to defend small trade in front of Parliament's foci, while, at night, the day before its ban approved a trade macro-centre that is open to the economic interests of multinationals and fosters a model of precariousness, which means placing private economic interests above the democratic will of this House. We make laws to enforce them, we make monographs to put an end to agreements and resolutions that are enforced. So the only thing we ask in our parliamentary group is that all those resolutions that are agreed today – which we hope will be many – be complied with and carried out and not passed on to us like a few months ago. In that line they'll always have us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. There's a place where you beat gurekin gaur monografiko ha partakatzera etorri to say guztia lagoon was bathroom. Welcome, in particular, all representatives of the trade sector. Trade is a basic sector in the Euskade structure, as well as because of its financial size and its social importance and the ability to structure the lives of the city. We are aware of the importance of the commerce of the city near EAJ-PNV. It's a very important sector because it creates Eukadin wealth and it's an essential element for the stability of the family business. It is also decisive for the spatial organization of our towns and cities, in terms of the design and social intercourse of the city. Thus a rich community is formed, agreeable, secure, and adapted for co-operation. Small trade, urban trade or proximity trade is an economic structure or sector, rather, that generates wealth and employment. But, in addition, trade defines the model of our cities and towns; it is an environment that helps the socialization of our citizens and provides security in our streets. Trade, as has been said, is life. It brings economic, social and urban cohesion. Commercial, we understand from a wide point of view, including the establishments that sell produce, including all the establishments that are offered and sold in François and local services. They're helping us breed our towns and cities. The merchant has undergone a profound amount of modification, and its speed of modification has been much accelerated during the past few years. The principal characteristics of the commercial profession are these: the great corporate authority, the great alemism of construction, and the small corporate integration. The process of conversion – a situation very different from that of tourism at the moment – which is experiencing the existing business model is characterized by a high degree of ageing and by the small entrepreneurial dimension. These characteristics, being important per se online Trade has to face up to several trends with a strategy that allows it to use them in its favour. The fact that the consumer is located in the center of a wheel, in which he can handle different spaces with a click, can be a threat, but also an opportunity. At this time the consumer has a multiplicity of personal devices that he can carry with him and countless platforms, applications, etc. Not only can the user access to buy products and services at any time, but we are also providing feedback to a circle in which data volumes are analyzed and enable the ability of machines to generate value. Therefore, this may seem an impossible scenario for traditional proximity trade, but it does not have to be. Small trade brings a value that has not been achieved exclusively by electronic commerce. Customers want to go out, socialize, have fun in the shops and there's nothing more confident than trying and treating you for your name where you buy. Technological innovation must be democratised in order to digitise traditional trade. Agreements with partnerships to put forward digitisation projects attached to the field and to the various commercial sectors, and, very important, to the specific demands that our traders put forward in this field, are, at this time, more important than ever. The merchant is subject to certain tensions, both consistent and structural. In the first place, these are given for the following reasons: The downfall of the complaint, the concentration of great trade operators, the technological change, the presence of new channels for the market, and the changes of the behavior of the consumers. We are wasting time and effort posing a war between models that have been living together for over 50 years, when the small business is closing for not knowing or not being able to adapt to the current consumer profile. That is the challenge we must face, where public action can and must help the trade sector. We must work together to modernise and rejuvenate the sector for its progressive competitive improvement, encouraging developments towards a new trade that responds to new trends and social needs. The aim is to improve the image and social perception of trade, prestige it and accompany it in its material modernization. Alongside the improvement of traditional lines of support, such as the renovation of facilities, it is necessary to bet on a renewing enterprise and work also to make the communication of the sector attractive. The business competitiveness of the sector must be promoted so that it is not only a new trade, but better, more profitable, more satisfactory, more people-centred, more sustainable trade, through the widespread improvement of management standards, digitisation, job qualification, adaptation to the context of omnichannelity and coverage to unique projects of competitive cooperation. We must deepen the commercial management of urban environments in order to respond to new realities with actions that drive innovation and commercial dynamism. We must promote the differentiation and adaptation of interventions to urban centres and neighbourhoods, and enrich dynamism policies to improve their impact. We must also improve the effectiveness of trade policies from strengthening public leadership in their design, implementation and monitoring, from operational optimization of available human and technical resources and their coordination with the sector and the associative fabric, as well as through knowledge production and management as a strategic resource. The essential lines of the commercial policy proposed by the Julian party are directed to modulate commercial techniques and intermediary, as well as to lessen the cost of small stalls. At the same time, we will work to improve the access and preparation of the finance sources, especially to digital alpha-bombing and re-election models of advanced business and management. We defend ourselves from the Jeltist Party, founded on a European trade trade trade trade-ground, which is drawn from the dense and living cities and nations, which are socially connected, and which, as far as the environment is concerned, renders a more permanent cultivation of space and commerce, which prevents local changes and the saturation of the roads. To obtain solid and fixed surroundings, as a fundamental element of the commerce and promotion of the city, will be one of the principal challenges. We must promote programmes to boost urban business spaces in order to increase the competitiveness of business through the strengthening of zonal cooperation between businesses and institutions, with the dual aim of strengthening business competitiveness and achieving attractive business spaces. Analyzing new associative models that improve the management of urban business spaces and public-private collaboration is already a necessity. Public-private platforms for urban commerce and hospitality must be developed. In short, we must encourage the search for alternatives to revitalize our urban commercial areas. We're going to work in the business business camp in the city. In this sense, the Euccanic Party favors the association of management which strengthens and promotes the commercial commerce of euscals, and protects the development of it. We must also encourage synergies between trade and tourism, and between trade and hospitality and services. Trade is at the crossroads of changes in consumption patterns, globalization and the rapid deployment of e-commerce. And here, many times it seems that we continue on the day of the marmot, as if we continue on the same dual commercial model of the last 50 years. I believe that the time has come to put an end to the old debates, to the debates of 20 years ago, and to address the current challenges ahead. There is no Mr. Martinez, so I'll tell you that David Ben-Gurion said that all experts are from the past and that there are no experts in the future, but from the past you have to learn and not anchor yourself in it. We are convinced that it is not the moment of fears, it is not the time to blame everything that happens to an external enemy; it is the time to send the sector a message of optimism and hope, because, as my friend Josep Rull says, with which I hope to be able to run again as soon as possible through the streets of Barcelona: "Hope is more powerful than fear". And we trust the traders and the often invisible women in this country's trade, we trust in their ability to face the challenges ahead. It won't be easy, but they won't be alone and alone. It is up to public administrations, politicians, to promote the competitiveness of our trade, to efficiently manage urban spaces and to efficiently encourage synergies between trade, tourism, hospitality or culture. It is up to the sector to consolidate its uniqueness, to seek its DNA, to deepen it, to undertake, to innovate and to be aware of the moment in which it lives, of the time in which we live, all this always focused on the customer. On that path you will always find EAJ-PNV. It is time to walk together towards the future of Basque trade. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u10	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The team's turn is over, then it's fun. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u11	Eskerrik asko, president. Lehendakari, parliamentarians, parliamentarians, representatives of the trade sector, egun on guztioi. This full monograph comes at a time when, as I have had occasion to point out from the department, Basque trade is facing major challenges in the future. The future of our trade will depend on how we face these challenges, on the measures we are taking and on what we are taking in the coming years. Basque trade is an exemplary sector, on which many elements of great importance depend. We are talking not only about jobs, but also about the social and urban articulation of our society. I therefore have no doubt that their contributions will be enriching and will equip us with new instruments that will join the initiatives that we have been promoting from the Government with the support of the sector. This is a full monograph on trade, but I would like us to go further and turn it into a full dedicated to the people who make, work and live from trade in Euskadi. It is also a good opportunity for citizens to perceive the model we are betting on and to pretend that it is the one they adopt in their habits of consumption and purchase, because with our decision to buy we decide, as citizens, how we want our society to be. First of all, I want to say very briefly where we come from and what the current situation is with Basque trade. In 2017 we found Basque trade at a difficult time. Beyond the crisis it had suffered, like the rest of the economy, it was already facing systemic challenges, both at the technological level – with online trade All this was part of a joint analysis that we carried out from the department with the collaboration of significant actors in the sector and which resulted in the Basque Trade Master Plan. A document that marked new strategic lines to face a disruptive scenario with regard to previous situations, with a sector at a crossroads that pointed to the need for competitive adjustment and renewal. In these three years we cannot speak of a single trend, since the sector has shown some duality. The percentage of stronger companies has grown, increasing both the average size of employment per establishment and the average investment, in a stable sector in large numbers, around 10.7% of our GDP and with more than 138,000 people affiliated with Social Security. Both trends are, therefore, the two sides of the same reality. On the one hand, conversion of the sector with growth of more modern and competitive trades, with more profitability, and which generate, comparatively, more employment. On the other hand, the trend indicates that we are going to a smaller sector quantitatively in terms of trade numbers. The commercial density, on the other hand, remains around 12 per 1,000 inhabitants and remains significantly higher than the Spanish and European density. That is also a differential fact that makes our sector more resilient to challenges. In this scenario of uncertainty, with pointed but unconsolidated trends, this is where we have implemented our policies, which have been summarized in three main sections. On the one hand, we have promoted the competitiveness of our trade. On the other hand, we have consolidated commercial projects with programmes and policies aimed at the trader and his environment. Finally, we have promoted the renewal of the business fabric with programmes aimed at entrepreneurship – one of the great innovations of this legislature –. And it is that only from the transformation and competitive improvement will we be able to make our trade a more attractive, modern and sustainable sector. Secondly, I would like to explain to you what our current policies are, what main lines of work we have been developing, and to make some of the proposals for the future. In the scenario that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, with the competition of new transnational operators, we have done a reflection on the digitisation lines of the department, which are mainly based on the programme of es-COMMERCE and in the line of management and competitive improvement through Saltokitik enterprisera. The es-COMMERCE it is an already structured program that, since its launch in 2017, we have been improving taking into account the contributions that have brought us from the sector. We can say that in this 2019 it has already become a consolidated line and that it has in all its calls an important demand of interested companies. Saltokitik empresa provides the participating companies with management and quality skills that take Euskalit's advanced management model as a reference. Our future objective in these programmes is to continue to make progress in their dissemination and to extend them to smaller companies with greater management deficits. In this year 2019 it has been focused on the EMCO program, commercial entrepreneurship. If in 2018 it was a novel program and had long been claimed by the sector, in 2019 we have improved it by learning from the experience of its first edition. In particular, we have increased the budget allocation to increase the implementation of new trade initiatives by 80%. The results are undoubtedly relevant: 569 applications in their first call, of which we have subsidized 221 with a grant of 1,896,000 euros and an induced investment of 5,278,000 euros. We are now in the process of evaluating the second edition. In this programme, and across the department, the gender perspective has been incorporated, which is another principle that we take into account in our policies, applying positive discrimination measures in barbarisms, which enable women to be better integrated into entrepreneurship and labour empowerment in the commercial sector. In fact, data in programmes such as EMCO indicate the relevance of these policies: the vast majority of subsidised companies – 69% – are women's entities. In this regard, I also take the opportunity to highlight the preparation of two studies already under way on the role of women in trade and on employment in the sector. In the case of the commercial dynamism of urban environments, we are talking about a long-distance aid order: Hirigune. It has been updated in line with the master plan and each year reflects improvements, with 25% more performances than in the previous edition. Hirigune makes possible with its help elements as relevant for the modernization and survival of our trade as the creation of streets of coexistence or the pedestrianization of commercial zones, among other types of conditioning and infrastructures. In addition, it supports almost a hundred projects that result in actions of impulse and attraction, such as Christmas fairs or showcase contests. A thorough strategic review of an already mature program of the department was also carried out in the past exercise to consolidate and improve its results. I am talking about the Modernisation and Commercial Equipment Programme (MEC), which has multiplied its leverage effect by more than seven points on own investment, and we have placed this exercise on the commercial sectors with the greatest need for support. All this, as emphasized, accompanied by social criteria that have prevailed, through bonuses, the indefinite employment or the inclusion of women on equal terms in the labour market. A line on which we have supported exactly 349 companies, with a subsidy of 1.054,000 euros and an induced investment of 13,487,000 euros. In the field of training, this 2019 exercise has been the launch of a reformulation of our programmes. We intend to strengthen this aspect in the future, with the fundamental objective of completing a supply map adapted to the new needs and realities of the sector. We have launched the Basque Retail Training Programme This new programme has received €400,000 in funding for its launch and first actions that will include tailor-made training with personalized follow-up and diagnostics of training needs, among other aspects. This opens in 2019 a long-distance bet for the competitiveness of the sector. The Trade Master Plan also aims to boost the professionalization of the associative fabric, seeking to adapt it to the new realities and needs of the sector. The department maintains a constant dialogue with the sector and has incorporated many of its contributions into the programmes. Federations and associations are fundamental elements in the translation of policies into territory. In addition, we have responded to an old aspiration of Basque associationism, providing stable funding to associations and business organisations able to articulate in their environment a large part of the sectoral association system. Thus, in 2019 the budgetary effort to support the staff structures and establishment of the federations integrated in Euskomer and Euskaldendak is consolidated. At this point I can announce that we are with the sector carrying out an analysis of the representativeness of Basque associationism. The aim of this initiative is to know the reality of trade associations in order to achieve a greater entrepreneurial fabric in our programmes and aid. In 2019 we also launched the project called "Responsible shopping tourism", a project that aims to put the dynamism of tourism demand at the service of traditional, attractive and unique urban trade. It promotes the development of our local trade, both in its food dimension of quality, and in the identity and design of its own that brings fashion and local craftsmanship. This program is supported by initiatives already developed and promoted by the department, such as Hemengo Shopping's programs and its tourist routes in the three capitals, Singular Dendak, or market promotion initiatives. Programs such as Hemengo Shopping or Singular Trade are successful cases that can become the seed of greater recognition and grant a status of protection to traditional or historical trade. And at this point I stop. We are aware of the importance of municipal supply markets, their transversality and their relevance in the management of urban spaces, so we have launched a series of initiatives to give greater visibility and dynamism to them. Firstly, we have recognised this figure within the entrepreneurship order, EMCO. On the other hand, we will include the markets in the Euskadi Gastronomika Product Club, with the visibility it gives, and next month we will present a pilot project of dynamism actions in eight markets, with different actions related to hospitality and tourism. We will also support the celebration of two very important anniversaries that will take place in 2020: the 90th anniversary of the Ribera market and the 150th anniversary of the Bretxa market. In this legislature we have carried out an important task of analysis and development to provide the sector and the Administration itself with coherent, open and systematized data for strategic decision-making. We have constituted the statistical body of the department and have provided it with the means to carry out the function indicated by its own decree (124/18), which is the elaboration of its own statistics, studies and sectoral analysis of the retail sector. In 2019, efforts on this axis have focused on redefining and launching the new Euskadi Trade Observatory – which we will present to the sector before the end of the year – which sets out the objective of having indicators, benchmarks that allow comparisons, assessments and follow-up, and information to support strategic decision-making and definition of trade sector support policies. The measures envisaged for its implementation are the preparation of an annual report on the situation of the sector, several quarterly trade surveys, sectoral DAFO, various trade barometers, and case studies on which they will be informed in due course. We are also committed to improving our governance. Therefore, in addition to the transparency policies embodied in the follow-up to the government plan and the Trade Master Plan itself, we have launched the evaluation of aid orders and their results for the improvement of such policies. And it is precisely as a result of these evaluations that we have included new criteria and improved our programmes. Also, with the aim of strengthening dialogue and governance with the sector, the department has launched four annual brainstorming forums, one per quarter, in which we conduct current analysis. In this regard, I would like to highlight the first forum, in which the department approached the commercial reality of Euskadi to the Secretary of State, and a second forum, in which, with all associations, chambers and federations, we analyse the basic regulatory framework for business hours. I'm finishing up. Our policies must reach people in the trade sector. We have made a special emphasis on communication. This exercise has reinforced information on campaigns, with media and social media campaigns. Thus, the EMCO aid or the MEC aid have been published, and we have endeavoured, as I said at the beginning of my speech, to bring to the public the reality of Basque trade and how important it is to preserve a model with enormous added value. We insist on information, communication and awareness-raising as a long-term task. Euskadi's trade is undoubtedly in a complicated situation. That uncertainty is not an element that has emerged now. In the past, with the last crisis, there were moments of alarm which, fortunately, were left behind, but which have left the affected sector. But we also know that with the advancement of technology in recent decades competition has become fierce. The globalization of our economy means that companies can now open shops wherever there is an Internet connection. However, I trust in the Basque trade, in its people, in its model of proximity, in the added value it brings to society. Traditional trade plays a particularly important role in an increasingly ageing society. Therefore, with your help, we will continue to work on providing resources and skills. The discussion, we believe, is no longer so much in the opening or not of establishments, but in the consolidation of business bets, with support for entrepreneurship, on the one hand, and, on the other, the preservation of traditional trade, with guardianship and support for business transmission, especially in those historical and traditional businesses. From the department we also appeal to consumers and implement cross-cutting policies that also involve Kontsumobide. We believe in a new form of consumption that is fixed on the value of the purchase and not only on the price, on the professionalization, on the personalized service, on the people who form part of the business fabric of the Basque trade; improving the representativeness of the commercial sector and arriving with new ways of talking to the whole sector; reinforcing our programmes and lines of aid with the resources that come out of the budgets that are approved in this Parliament, and with the certainty that our trade, our merchants, make us, as a country and as a society, much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u12	Thank you, Chief, Mrs. Pérez. On the answer shift, you don't seem to be getting involved. So I interrupt the entire meeting until half-past two. And to introduce solutions to the General Secretary of the Parliament General, until half-past twelve. Till half past twelve, isn't it? It was eleven o'clock in the morning and forty-eight. At two o'clock in the afternoon and at thirty-two the meeting resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u13	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. The teams of the legislature, in order to present solution suggestions in order, will have 20 minutes of time. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u14	Hello again. I don't know what to say, "Good afternoons," or "good afternoons," I don't know exactly what to say at this time, but what I can tell you is that the first words will be to greet the guests here because they're heavy or to repeat things, but that I know that some of them have arrived late at the morning session, and therefore I want to confirm their first thanks and congratulations for the work they're doing in the trade, and their struggle, thanks to their work and sometimes their obstinacy, we're here as much as we were in trade. So, thank you. And also thank you for your patience, because we know that these formats are not light to wear. I don't know if you've seen the movie The Emerald Forest spoiler That I think should be the concept of power. This is what we seek to promote in politics, and we often accuse this government of want of leadership, and we have often accused it of want of leadership in commerce. The leadership is not a command, the leadership is not "rerne y mule"; it's the leadership to have the ability to choose the debate, to take the representation of everyone, and, at the last moment, to make decisions, but after hearing them. In another of these battles that I promised to Mr. Uriah that I would tell, more than anything so that at this hour the attention would come a little above, the Athenian admiral Temistocles told the Spartan admiral Euribiades that they should attack the Persians, and Euribiades, who was in command, refused; he was angry and lifted the command staff, and Temistocles said to him, "Pick, but listen; stick, but listen." Then he listened to his plan and, in fact, Temistocles led to victory. And here I repeat again: the Basque Government has the executive capacity because it has the democratic mandate to do so, but there is an entire associative system, a whole world in the trade sector that has a lot to say, that it has to be heard, and not just heard, but that it has to be a partner in decision-making. Fortunately today, among many analyses and data that in most cases were already known to all those familiar with the trade sector, we are going to adopt a series of concrete resolutions, including a very important one referring to the model of governance in the sector. And I am referring to the reactivation of the so far hibernated Trade Advisory Committee. A commission whose reactivation already has the necessary votes in the negotiation that we have made between the groups, including that of the parties that support the Government, whose reactivation, said, will be a necessary instrument for precisely that shared governance, in which the Government has the executive role, but in which all other actors and actors have to have word and protagonist, can have a framework, can have a meeting point. Because that is the way to make intelligent, efficient and democratic leadership, a shared leadership. And from today we are committed to the reactivation of this consultative commission, renewed to improve its representativeness and to create working bodies that can also make it more efficient. I said, in the morning session, I'd talk later, in the afternoon, at noon or noon, but I'd talk later about the business. And this is not even to insist on, which is not connected with sentimental or patriotism or identity. We have insisted that even in our economy our dependence on the Spanish State has a negative influence on the inability to determine our affairs in important respects. And commerce is one of them. The legislation of the Spanish state has imposed upon us the most pernicious measures, and those which have produced a just influence on the quality of the life of merchants, which is worse. The State of Autonomy assures or admits that this right, the right of commerce, belongs to the author of the Renaissance. Only in combat defense is the state capable of doing something. And taking advantage of this opening, or taking advantage of this excuse, the state has constantly given the invaders of our jurisdiction. Three examples: the order to open the measure for the liberality of the hours, and many days of festivals, the necessary application of the high tourist regions, or the chaos or "free" which we have at this time of sale. Apart from these, collective negotiation also affects and produces in a negative sense, there are more cases as examples of which I mentioned before. State business contracts are harmful, and we call all operating agents in this case also to make use and activate to the patricians and unions the framework of the collective negotiation here. Zaldunbordaz was hitz egin dugu gaur goizean. We have spoken this morning about Zaldunborda and we are going to talk about Zaldunborda over and over again, in this plenary and outside this plenary, until the time comes when this harmful and unacceptable project is finally paralysed. I told the advisor in private and I repeat it to her in public: we are not going to get tired, again and again, until this position, which we all know is a majority against this Zaldunborda project, is materialized in public and express statements, and, above all, in concrete actions that lead to show the Mayor of Hondarribia that he is alone in this, if he is really alone in this, and therefore that he is compelled to abandon this project. This project, which with the express will to skip not the legality, but the also democratic will of this House in the time to legislate and make a law of large commercial centers that was specifically referred to the stoppage of such projects, that law and that processing, which is done expressly in Hondarribia, is, as I said, a challenge to the democratic will of this House and is an imminent and very serious threat to the survival of small trade in the area of Bidasoa. And we know what we are talking about because these kinds of macro-centres have already produced those effects in other areas where they have been installed. Today we also have the possibility – I do not want to make any progress, but there seems to be enough agreement to do so – of adopting a resolution calling on the Government, the current and future budget-making bodies to double the budgets allocated to the area of trade within four years. As we said this morning, these only 17 million should become 34 in the four-year period at a 25% annual increase. And I was with the classic battalions before. There is another classic concept, which is that of "pyrical victory," which refers to that victory defeat sweet defeat sweet defeat sweet defeat And it is that the time comes when, some things that we think are acceptable, because we stop to think about them and realize that they are, in fact, unacceptable, and spends time and we think, as when there were ashtrays on the trains or you could smoke in front of people with total naturality, nobody gave it excessive importance, the one who was educated said to him, "Ma'am, do you mind if I turn on the pure in front of you?" And so on. That's what was polite, isn't it? It was totally natural to smoke, and today it would seem a barbarity. The moment will come when we find, retroactively, a barbarity that a sector of the dimension of trade has a budgetary marginalization of this caliber and that with just EUR 17 million it is intended to face the reality of a huge sector with a deep social projection, with 140,000 people working in it and which generates 11% of GDP. That is why I say to you, although today, in parliamentary terms, it may be a defeat of the principle of change. When an agreement of this House to increase the R & D budget by 5% per year was approved – precisely at the initiative of the Socialist Party and also with the support of Euskal Herria Bildu – it was not very graceful to the government at the time, and today it marks that 5% per year increase as one of the great achievements in the field of R & D. That is also true in the area of trade, and that in a few years' time the Government can make such an increase and leap forward in the budgets, because behind that leap forward in the budgets has to come something that is much more important, which is a leap forward in the policies. We're delighted to take the step to officialize the traditional shop and the form of the historic store. We have also in this degree the protection of parties who support the government, and therefore we believe that there is a will beyond the quantum majority in order to accomplish these projects. It makes us a special emotion, because we believe that we will confess the work many merchants have done for many years, we will give them their true merit, and give them their confession and recovery, and also because we have asked for the measures of protection to remain under this figure, to agree with the sector. I always give the same example, which happened about a couple of years ago, or maybe three years ago in Bilbo. En Bilbao había una pub que llamaba La pub tauina The important measures will be tested today. And I think this is not a topi and it's not immediates in the pilot. The basic policies will be turned on or stronger. For instance, the shop in the neighborhoods, or even those in the country, will be the reproach of the knight who has just been mentioned, and the proposal to double the budgets, the protection of the historical shops, the subjugation, the advice committee of trade... Interesting proposals. Others, we don't know yet, because the discussion isn't focused on these matters, we don't know what the answer will be. As for us, among those whom I have not mentioned, it is especially interesting and important to us the tax upon the great points of commerce. I have already mentioned how it would be possible to receive only 10 million Euro, if this law were here introduced, which is already established in Navarrian: impusto sobre los genderes establecimitos comerciales And I won't stay here any longer. The resolutions are being introduced. It's a negotiation plan. We'll see the results immediately. I want to end again by thanking every person who has been involved in this discussion and this monographic pleno. Sometimes, owing to this will, there have been agreements, sometimes not, but it is permitted to have different political positions. We'll continue to fight for the fact of the proposals that will be tested here, and we'll continue to wait for new proposals, because we'll always be ready to work for a sector that's so important, work for the little trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. We're going to the rest of the teams. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours. Excuse me, Mrs. Łódź de Ocariz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, sectoral representatives who are following this debate here, thank you very much for joining us. I present on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party the proposals to contribute to the competitiveness of retail trade, all of which relate to the issues that we have raised this morning in this rostrum, which are done with the best will, but not only will, but will be effective for their activity, for commercial activity. From a previous analysis, what we understand is that the department of the Basque Government, in the spirit of collaborating for the commercial activity, for the improvement of the commercial activity, has to collaborate with the other entities of the Administration and, in this case, with the municipalities. And that in order to have knowledge and to be able to put effective measures, it is necessary to have a real analysis that identifies the opportunities for commercial activity in urban areas. That is a proposal that we make, as the beginning of any measure that we want to implement, that an analysis be made beforehand because that will give you some guidelines for the success of the experience and the measure. But, in addition, we propose to promote measures to adapt the urban commercial spaces functionally and aesthetically, where the commercial offer is combined with leisure and services. We believe that we need to combine activities to generate opportunities, and that is an issue that is being a success experience in some places. I therefore believe that we need to boost measures of this kind so that certain areas can regain their commercial activity. Also, together with the municipalities, we understand that the Basque Government must implement public-private partnership tools in the municipalities to promote local trade, trying to reduce the number of inactive premises in the main commercial urban centres. If you take a walk around here, less than 200 meters away you will find half a street in the centre of Vitoria completely fenced. It's been 16 months fenced, there's no project behind, meters and meters of commercial space closed, and you don't know. Frankly, this cannot be allowed, and if the City Council is not able to resolve this issue, there has to be some authority to control, because it cannot be held in the middle of a city like Vitoria, the capital of Euskadi, half a street fenced for 16 months. This has made a rebound effect – other businesses like the dominoes are falling – and it is generating incalculable damage to the center of the Alavesa capital, to Vitoria. We also believe that, in collaboration with the municipalities, campaigns should be launched to disseminate and visualize local retail shops for the people of our towns and cities, highlighting and appreciating their contribution to sustainable urban development. We must help to increase competitive capacity, I told you this morning, and trade innovation in all sub-sectors, through actions aimed at improving the image and management of business. Aid programmes for the implementation of the continuous improvement offering added value both to the sale of the product and to the management of the business itself, such as better accessibility, the use of new technologies, special customer services and sustainability. We must also assess how we serve, what the customer values today, what the consumer values today. In addition to the value of the product, it values the care, the good image, the good practices, the treatment of commercial establishments and their workers. And in order to improve these skills, we think it would be good to generate a style book so that we give the image that corresponds to the trade, an image of respect to the customer, but of treatment of favor and closeness. We believe that there is a need to collaborate and support commercial establishments for the implementation and maintenance of quality certificates. This also gives added value to trade and product. Support business enterprises for the physical fitness of their establishments in sustainable practices, such as energy efficiency and saving measures, smart trade, use of green packaging or other actions that contribute to improving the sustainability of business. It seems very relevant to us: today the citizen is very keen on these practices and these practices generate an adaptation to the demand and concerns of society. Therefore, it is a way to empathize with the customer, with the consumer. We also believe that the use of ICTs should be enhanced and online sales platforms supported. Training in this area is also very important. We believe that it is necessary to review the map of training courses of the Basque Government itself and that their alignment with the training needs of the commercial sector is well identified, that their shortcomings are identified, with the aim of adapting it to the new specific needs of the sector. We believe that 100% of the specific training plans for the trade subsectors of local trade associations must be subsidised – and this is how we put it in our motions for resolutions – by enhancing awareness campaigns about the need to be trained, courses that are attractive and dynamic, compatible with the timing and content of the trader's needs, all with the aim of improving the training of trade professionals and facilitating employability and entrepreneurship in the sector. We believe that it is important to promote measures to support and promote entrepreneurship and to provide training opportunities in excellence, competitiveness and business innovation for entrepreneurs. We believe that measures for the rejuvenation of the sector should be strengthened, facilitating generational relegation and business continuity, developing a business register without corporate relegation and offering brokerage for the incorporation of entrepreneurs into such activities. It is true that there is a plan, but it is a plan that is being poor of results, poor of results because since 2014, which implemented this plan, the result is quite pyrical. In May – we don't have much data, we've got some news –, in May from the Bizkaia Chamber of Commerce it was said that since January 2014, this plan was initiated, only 17% of the interventions had been successfully completed. The website currently offers 26 establishments on offer in that registry. After three and a half years, we find this result poor. In the Chamber of Commerce of Álava, we were told that 50 broadcasts had been closed during this period. Three and a half years. It was recalled this morning that, in this period of time, 5,000 autonomouss have ceased to exist as autonomous, therefore, we believe that the comparative data are poor and, therefore, we insist, knowing that there is a program, but it is that this program, probably, must be strengthened, it must be adapted, because the result is not being how optimal we think it should be with the resources that are put on the table. So, as I was telling you, there are a multitude of entities that are collaborating on this program, from university, chambers of commerce, the parliament, the city council, all, working on this, supposedly, or so the text says, and the result is pyrical. This, therefore, does need to be strengthened. Also, we said it this morning, we want and believe it necessary, essential to recover the Trade Observatory. She says, and so she has informed us, that they are about to launch it, because it seems good to us. It seemed to us a misconception when it was suppressed; it seems to us good that it is revived and that it helps to form, inform and put at the service of trade the data that are essential to make a projection of his work much more suitable to reality. We also call on the Government to prepare a report on how supply, distribution and supply conditions in rural areas should be improved, what rural trade should be like and what dynamism needs can be met. Look, a rural area, a village that I know very well, that has 1,500 inhabitants, that is Legutiano, that is close here, I know it 35 years ago, I can say that at this time there is practically no business; the bank opens two days a week, a few hours; there is the pharmacy; the medical center; 1,500 inhabitants; the bakery is about to close... Frankly, it's tremendous, but that's what's happening. I'm not talking about villages of 100 inhabitants, I'm talking about a town of 1,500 inhabitants, that the municipality has 1,800. Frankly, he deserves urgent action. We believe that we need to study how we can deal with and what kind of trade, combined with services. Indeed, everything is invented, there are examples, there are ways of acting, and we believe that this requires, prior to study, an urgent action plan. I also think that the people who get the worst out of this situation are the elderly, who have much more difficulty moving, who are very unattended and with very little resources at their disposal. Therefore, we are very concerned about this plan, this measure I believe is very urgent and would encourage the Government to take it very seriously and to do so as soon as possible. We also insist that the Government modify the assessment of "associated state" as a support criterion for the MEC programme. It has been said this morning: to recover the five points of valuation envisaged until 2018 as an incentive for businesses that adhere to any of the associations. Being a partner has to be a priority. If it is worth the same thing as not being associated, there will be no interest and therefore you will have a dispersed, individualistic, uncontrolled and uncontrollable sector, which will not be able to be a partner in implementing all the plans, measures and initiatives that the Government has. The structure of the sector helps them and helps them to succeed. Therefore, they should have a very strong, powerful and agile, working associative structure, because they are very hardworking, and they should be congratulated for the work they do and for what they also bring us and teach us to the members of this House, at least to the spokespersons of the area. In addition, in the Trade Technical Offices Programme, the conditions provided for until 2018, the recruitment of technicians provided for in the Trade Technical Offices Programme; in the Hirugune Programme, the assessment between the applicant entities of the existing funds; and, in line with their representativeness, the aid for agreements and structures for federations, groupings and confederations is increased. And, in addition to supporting the structure, giving content to the associations, because at the moment the structure is supported and the activity of the associations is emptied of content. And I don't think this is a good way to work. We want the budget for the Department of Commerce to increase in agreement with and in comparison with other sectors, with the importance of the contribution it makes to the GDP of the Basque Country and to the generation of employment. We ask for a shock plan in support of associationism, for all that I have told you, that it is very important to have strong associationism, and, in addition, to modernise trades. It is that in the budgets that you have for this year, Counsellor, the modernization of commercial establishments has reduced it by 850.000 euros, it has gone from 2,000,000 euros to 1,250,000 euros. But it is that chapter VII, which is 4,300,000 euros, 3,057,000 go to the municipalities. Listen, what needs to be modernized are not the spaces of the municipalities. No, commercial establishments need to be modernised. The municipalities have a lot more resources to modernise the environment, but I think what has been made clear in this House this morning is that we need an urgent plan to modernise and adapt the establishments to the new reality, which must be in line with the demands of the customer, the consumer in this case. I was talking about how we adapt trade to today's sustainable realities. There is a lot of trade that is not accessible to everyone, there is a lot of trade that lacks its own services to serve the customer, there is a lot of trade that requires investments, and we are not up to the circumstances in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposals, I believe they are real and that, together with the rest of the administrations, new businesses must be set up or helped to set up new ones that include additional measures, new ones that include aid for the self-employed, for the new self-employed, to start those first years of beginning, at the beginning, and to simplify administrative procedures or procedures. There are licenses that cost years, because the loon turns out to play I don't know what... In the end, in some experience I've met I've needed more than a year to get a license. It's just that anyone is taken away from the desire to engage! We also understand that, together with the outside parliaments, programmes of specific financial guarantees for trade should be established, taking into account their specific nature of repeated purchase in season. Also a tax plan that avoids situations of non-payment of VAT, through the control of final deliveries of online sale We also urge the Government to transmit to its counterparts in the Spanish Tax Agency the need to increase customs and postal controls. These are circumstances that are taking place, which we are concerned about, which are of concern to the trade sector, and which I believe, if they can do anything, would be welcome and very welcome to the trade sector. The implementation of telematic control of invoices. This concerns the retail trade very much, very much. What we are asking is to start with those formats with the most workers, taking into account their greater computer skills, in order to make it easier for the public to get used to them and to facilitate their inclusion in the retail sector. We believe that it should be gradual, that this should be regulated and that it should be well controlled, but I think that we need the capacity to adapt. The whole population does not have the same capacity to adapt to this, and I believe that this must be in a step-by-step way, so that it does not generate conflicts, which are going to be at the counter and to the consumer himself. Provide an agreement with Eudel for the search for an improvement of the controls in the street sale. This also in some spaces generates controversy, creates problems. We believe that it is good to reform the Commercial Activity Act with the aim of regulating occasional sales in spaces, say hotels, say sporadic slices, because in the end they do unfair competition to the environment, they pay far less taxes, they come out much more profitable and, of course, if I take a special week, I can probably do a lot of damage to the trade in the environment and at an almost minimal cost, right? We believe that it is good that an image campaign for the retail sector should be developed, on a continuous basis, and that these campaigns should be carried out in a consensual and contrasting manner with the sector. I was saying this morning, well, a situation that I believe has generated controversy in some areas of the commercial sector, because they have therefore been somewhat offended by that slogan they have put in the campaign and, therefore, I think the good thing is that it is done according to the sector. Then, the representation and representativeness of the commercial sector in the various consultative bodies where trade has something to say. There we have put in place a few initiatives, which we have had with other groups, to encourage the participation of trade representatives in labour advisory bodies, with business participation or in line with the importance of the sector. Also the composition of the trade advisory bureau, so as to enhance the inclusion of greater representation of the trade sector. And since we're talking about collaborating entities, man, chambers of commerce, if they're going to do this from the retail trade, they would also have to have some more representatives. This morning I announced the low level of representation they have, which makes it difficult for them to have a well-represented sensibility in those plenary sessions and in those boards of directors. The Commercial Equipment Mobilization Programme seems to us very important and, moreover, it should allow for improvements without establishing a minimum amount of expenditure, or that the minimum amount is really minimal: man, 4,000 euros seems excessive to us! Therefore, Commissioner, these are some of the proposals we have tabled. We have, I believe, reached a reasonable agreement with the Government group and with the rest of the groups, and what we hope is that they can really be implemented and that they can be effective. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u17	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u18	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. If you leave me the voice... From Elkarrekin We have tabled 31 resolutions which, for our parliamentary group, have been focused both on proposing fiscal and administrative measures for small trade, above all so that we can face the unfair competition of large commercial and online sales areas. We, from conviction, understand the local trade, that of the neighborhoods, that of our peoples, that of the cities, that which generates society, that which generates community... And in these times when neoliberalism goes against all the collective, against all the community, with its struggle of all against all, public policies aimed at the trade sector are also crossed by this neoliberal perspective. Let's put an example of a municipality like this. This is the case of Eibar, with 27,000 inhabitants, where it has a local trade that agonises and where fixed expenses are paid, on average, 3,000 euros per month. It is completely inconceivable for local and proximity businesses in a city like this, and even more so when, in view of this reality, we have a 10-storey English Court, a Marketer, a large-surface Eroski, eroskis And that we are not misinterpreted, we are not against the large areas, much less, but we do believe that we must defend and strengthen a local and proximity trade that gives life, gives joy and gives quality employment in our municipalities. But in addition, we firmly believe that the role of trade should not be to promote consumerism or events designed for a consumerist purpose, but that trade should serve to make those products and services available to citizens for life in their broad conception, including, of course, the environmental and ecological perspective. At the same time, we are concerned about the economic activity of trade. We are also concerned about the redistributive and existing impacts on trade in large trade areas and local trade, as well as the redistribution between work and those who have ownership and management of this local trade. We reiterate that there is no need to oppose large areas, because they are spaces that also generate employment in a significant way, perhaps in proportion, less than local trade, but these large areas have to exist in a controlled way, in order to meet specific needs in a proportionate and balanced way. However, and as in almost everything, the policies that are implemented today favor, as we have said many times, more favor the large commercial spaces and harm those that are not so great. In short, they harm the defence of small trade, they harm the defense of municipalities and living, friendly, multifunctional, commercially fair, socially equitable, culturally diverse and generating local employment. Because local commerce brings life to the neighbourhoods, and fills public spaces with people and movement, and also gives the urban a personality of its own. But it goes beyond that, because it also offers local products of solidarity economy, strengthening short-distance consumption circuits, and much more ecological. For this reason, resolutions aimed at reducing or affecting the environmental impact of large areas, such as helping or enhancing local trade. Moreover, from different trade associations in Euskadi they have quantified the impact of the crisis on local trade in the loss of 5,600 commercial establishments, most of them small, and 15,000 jobs. And among the different causes is the fall of wages and the purchasing power of them, also the result of the crisis and the labor reforms themselves. Large-area policies or e-commerce itself have also had a negative impact on this local trade. Hence our specific resolutions: as part of a more comprehensive solution, we proposed the creation of a tax on large areas which seeks to correct the environmental and social impacts that they entail, as a way of redistributing resources, that the market power available to large areas be compensated by intervention in public policy that does not ruin local businesses. That is why we propose that the resources raised through this tax designed to ensure that this type of trade pays an extra amount for the environmental and urban impact it generates be fully devoted to the promotion of local and local trade through a support plan carried out with the participation, of course, of representative organisations in the sector. And as many of you will already know, we are not inventing anything. This tax is not something new. It is already in force in Nafarroa, Asturias, Aragon, Catalonia, the Canary Islands or La Rioja. Surely, you will also know – I believe that some other Member of Parliament has mentioned this – that the large commercial areas presented a legal battle against this tax. However, both the European Court of Justice and the Supreme Court endorsed its implementation. In the case of the Supreme Court in a judgment signed on 19 September 2018 that stated that "the purpose of displacing, on establishments established as large areas (...) the negative effects that they generate on the environment, (...) as on the territory and the urban trade plot that their activity generates, (...) constitutes a constitutionally legitimate objective". In other words, the tax we are asking for today through the resolutions we have tabled does not violate the right to freedom of enterprise. And it also supports three fundamental ideas. The tax on large areas is a concrete measure to support local trade, and I believe that is what we are trying to do today: to develop concrete measures to facilitate, defend and value local trade and its work and its usual and daily work. In addition, we have already explained, there is no legal impediment to its implementation, even if we are committed or committed to telling ourselves the opposite many times. Finally, its collection, which may have some relevance – around EUR 10 million – is completely legal for policies that boost local and proximity trade, and jobs associated with it. Clearly, it seemed important to us, and it was part of one of our most important resolutions. In that connection, we have also tabled very specific resolutions on the macro-outlet. In addition to these, we have called for the commitment of the Government to help the small neighbourhood trade to become a more integrated trade in its neighbourhoods, more modern, more efficient and more sustainable. One of our resolutions in this regard speaks of a digitisation plan, a comprehensive plan for the digitisation of Basque retail trade, in order to enable small trade to respond both to the challenges of digitisation of the physical shop – wifi, computers, the web, social networks, screens – and to the use of technology for the electronic sale of local trade products. This plan must also be defined in terms of means and purposes, and, of course, in agreement with industry associations, lasting over time, and must have budgetary stability. In this connection, we also believe that, on the basis of an agreement with the associations of traders in the sector, an e-commerce plan should be put in place. –with their websites, social networks and online sales platforms online software In this connection, with regard to the working conditions of many of the employees and trade workers, such as the working hours, which were carried out or promoted, we were talking about claiming the right of these workers from trade to rest and family conciliation, and we were expressing the rejection of commercial openings on public holidays, calling for the repeal of the state rules protecting such openings, and we were urging all Basque institutions not to promote, or if possible avoid, this practice, within their competence. In addition, we urged the Basque Government to take part in defending the rest and reconciliation of women workers in the commercial sector at public holidays and to consider that the liberalisation of business hours is detrimental to local trade and proximity in the interests of large enterprises. In addition, we spoke in one of our resolutions of the concern that we had about the concentration of franchises in certain urban centers or municipalities of our geography and, in that line, what we asked for and what we requested is a study to cheat and measure and have a clear picture of what the concentration is. Actually, we always talk about that sometimes the streets of the municipalities, the centers of the streets of our municipalities seem the same and we believe that it is a question that it is obvious that we have to study and that it is important. In addition to all these issues, with regard to the resolutions of the rest of the parliamentary groups, we agreed on a number of issues, two of which we felt were important. One of them was the increase in the budget, because all the issues we are talking about, we all know that they cannot be achieved without resources, if one does not provide funding for all these specific plans and small measures, which I hope are many that will come out as a result of all the resolutions that we are adopting today, and for that, as we said, the budget must be increased. And we found this proposal interesting. In addition to this whole issue, the whole debate that we are dealing with today was based on the fact that it is associationism that has de facto exercised a supervisory role in the field of commercial urban planning, which controls matters in general in the commercial sector, while, on the other hand, the spaces with strong associationism are those that credited the highest ratios in the institutional programmes and defined in the collaborative basis. That is, we believe that we are at a good time and that this monograph, and listening to the rest of the women parliamentarians from other groups, is the time to really listen to the voices of the representatives of trade associationism, who have been fighting for many years and many years without feeling sufficiently heard and sufficiently represented and participating in the entire structure of the department and the whole structure, in general, of the institutional part of the trade sector. In this sense, we do feel satisfied because we believe that there has been progress and a small openness in recent months towards the complaints and demands of this sector. We believe that we must continue to work in depth and rigorously, but it is a good way, it is a good starting point on which to work. Furthermore, it is clear that we agree with everything that is to improve governance, improve transparency, and the reactivation of the Consultative Committee on Basque Trade seems to us to be a good proposal. Moreover, among the resolutions put forward by other groups was also the revival of small-scale trade in rural areas, an issue that we believe to be important and which we also believe must take up important time and development in the department's policies. In short, we believe that it is a monograph from which concrete proposals will emerge and supported by an important consensus many of them, which can be very positive for the development and defence of small trade. We also believe that, with all the differences within the House, there has been an effort, which has been worked on in recent months in this important sector, which we hope will be successful today and will in some way be visible, but we do not want this to remain in simple resolutions adopted, in simple words on paper. We really want the measures we agree on today to be put in place; we want sufficient resources to implement these measures; we want these measures to be agreed, contrasted and shared with the representatives of the sector, with all the representatives of the sector; we want to have, at the end of the day, a commercial fabric in Euskadi where associationism is a strengthened part and where, moreover, we have said it many times, it is comparable to what this sector represents within GDP. That is why we can say that we are in some way satisfied. We thank the rest of Parliament for the work it has done and hope that, from now on, we will begin to implement all the resolutions we adopt today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u20	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. On the basis of the analysis of the proposals of the trading entities and in contrast to the programmes, projects and lines of action of the Government, the Basque Socialists have submitted 39 motions for resolutions, starting with an appeal to society, administrations and the various actors in the sector to articulate measures to boost and preserve the retail trade and also the proximity trade, taking into account the impact of this economic activity on employment, the Basque economy and the social articulation of the country. We have focused the 39 proposals on those four axes that I was telling you this morning that they were fundamental to us: the modernisation and rejuvenation of the sector, the competitiveness of the sector, the tools we put in place for this improvement of competitiveness and the adaptation to the new times, to the new ways of online commerce We have had an exercise for a few days now in trying to reach agreements with the other groups, in this case the opposition, on the understanding that the motions for resolutions that they had put forward, some of them, could be accommodated because they were even reinforcements or maintenance of programmes that were being carried out. We have managed to reach some of those agreements, which I consider important. It had already been pointed out by previous speakers who had preceded me in the use of the floor, the elements that for us, for the Basque Socialists, were important in terms of how the full monograph devoted to the trade sector could end today. Because there was one key element for us, and more key even after what has been done as pronouncements this morning, and it was the attitude that the Basque Government must take with regard to laws that are in force in the state, which are laws of a basic nature also for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and which, therefore, must be complied with, we must also ensure that they are complied with, no matter how much some like or dislike the application of those laws in this autonomous community. In our view, it did not make any sense to propose or to make motions for resolutions that would be intrusive in the sense that such laws would have no greater problem. Everyone can freely express his opinion in the field of politics, but logically, when this invasion of competences is intended to reformulate through other proposals of a character, either in the form of resolutions, but which may force the Basque Government and, therefore, cause the laws to be breached, it does not seem to us to be the most appropriate method of making such formulations. And therefore, the Basque Socialists have not admitted, nor are we going to admit, when the time comes for the vote, any motion for a resolution, however consensual it may be, that will violate what is the legislative compendium before which we are not subject, but, well, we are to ensure that the laws are complied with, and on that path we will find the Socialists. I say this because when it comes to some proposals from some parliamentary group that three royal decrees be amended laws, that nobody liked and that come from the last legislature, and curiously it is proposed by one of the parliamentary groups that at that time, in 2012, was part of the Government of the People's Party in Spain and that promulgated those laws, it is today the less shocking that it is, however much that part of the associative fabric is against the generation of areas of great tourist influx, the less shocking it is that it is proposed that through the regulatory development the law be changed. And I say that the law should be amended, because to generate what part of the associative tissue sector intends with these areas of great tourist influx cannot be carried out by regulatory development. We'd have to change the laws. Therefore, let us not trap the lonely, we are in a parliamentary chamber, in a legislative chamber, and I believe that we must be all parliamentarians sufficiently responsible to determine that some issues should not even be formulated. There was talk this morning that the Basque Government was pursuing a weak and erratic policy. Well, on the part of the Basque Socialists, as a group that supports the government, I do want to say that of erratic politics, nothing. This Basque Government is leading its political orientation on the basis of a government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra, is guiding its policy on the basis of a government program and is guiding its policy, in this case specifically aimed at trade, through a trade master plan from 2017 to 2020. That is the comprehensive trade plan in Euskadi. That is the plan that we would all have to devote ourselves to seeing if its lines of action are really geared towards meeting the objectives of each of the four axes on which the master plan is based. The rest is cheating on the loner. Because look, I would like to leave here today, for indeed, with a commitment to quadruple the Basque Government's trade budget, would you not counsel? Of course! I hope to have more resources, not only economic, but also human and material means, so that the trade sector can really be dealt with in the best possible way in the face of the current situation. But of course, then we won't find, and in fact we've already met, with a disjunctive. It is that here came budgets, budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community for the year 2019, for an exercise in which those associations, part of those associations that today accompany us – thank you very much for coming – part of those associations were delighted with the proposals that existed in that budget for 2019. Pleased to meet you. I was with them, and that's how they told me. There could be better or worse management and that could have been called, but they were delighted. So, what happened? What happened? That those who are saying today that the budget for the year 2019 or 2020 is quadrupling, were the ones who really made it possible for us to face a budget extension, which means going back to 2018, and supposes that all those hopes that you had had must be reformulated and found the money needed to carry them out. So it's not good, it's not worth cheating and saying that we're making the budget really solvent to cover the expenses, the structures and the final financing of the Basque trade associative fabric, when then we come here and we pose the "we don't vote" or we don't finish the negotiation and then there's no budget and then we're going to a budget extension. That's what it can't be. And that must be said, loud and clear. That we often put in writing wonderful wills and then, within a few months – and here we will have an example – within a few months, it turns out that, "Oh, my God, there is no budget!", we find ourselves with an extension. And this budget for 2020 has more budget allocation than it had in 2019. He had and he has more clearance. I only hope that the budget negotiation that was being initiated will start today, as I understand it in the media, come to fruition and, indeed, advise, be able to dispose of and implement one of the resolutions that will be found because there has been a majority who have agreed that it is a much more than sufficient budget and I hope that you really know how to manage it. But let them then also be able to tell the associative tissue that if no agreement has been reached, it is not only on the responsibility of a government, but because here there are co-responsibilitys and shared responsibilities for the budgets to come forward, and if not, it is not played, if not, it is not played with the expectations of the associative tissue. Just like someone else, it's very funny, but to me, of course, none, because we're with very serious things and we're playing with things like eating, eating. It was also said that there was no strategy and that, indeed, the Basque Government had played the game of confrontation. Well, nothing further from reality, nothing further from reality. Because I have witnessed the government's unveilings for reaching agreements with the sector, for actually making the whole of the associative fabric, the whole of the segments of the associative fabric, make them partakers of each and every one of the programmes that we are implementing. I told them, when we tried to agree on some amendment: "It is that this programme is already under way; it is that this programme is already under way; it is that this programme is already under way"... It's just that I have a relationship, that I don't know if I'll be able to find it, but, listen, I can stay and bore you by telling you the names of the programs that are and are actually being carried out. And it is not self-satisfaction, it is self-requirement, because we are convinced that these programmes can and should be strengthened. Logically, there will be failures – I don't say no –; of course coordination is improveable, of course the relationship is improveable..., but as long as there is a relationship of sincerity and that it is two-way, that the government and the administration are sincere with the associative tissue and the associative tissue is also sincere. Because here, too, it is not worth telling some milongas and then it turns out that the Administration is being told others, because, of course, something will be failing. We may have fundamental discrepancies on some issues, of course! Of course we have fundamental discrepancies! Because we don't think the same, because we don't have the same ideology. Of course not. But in the defense of proximity trade and retail trade, of course they will find us, because they have been meeting us for many years. Many, many years: when the government had socialists in the government; when the government did not have socialists in the government; when we made budgetary agreements in which we included the associative fabric; when none of those who were here, except the Socialist Party, signed budgetary agreements – except the PP on some occasion – with the government and put money in for associations... Except at that time, there has been no express negotiation by political groups on trade matters. Bildu did not negotiate the 2019 budgets based on trade issues. That's not true. You put the lever, the forceps, on the subject of what social issues were, but not a single line, eh?, not half line, for budgets based on trade, not half line, however much we now want to tear our clothes with labor rights. Of course we have to ensure labour rights, of course! Of course we have to ensure taxation in trade! What did the Basque socialists and the Basque nationalists do? To agree on an amendment in this House that would have the OCT – the Tax Coordination Body – study everything related to taxation in trade. That is to ensure taxation in trade. Not to come now as lifeguards of not knowing what history to decide that really, "man, until we have arrived with the proposal of the full monograph has done nothing". For it is not true, it is not true, and it has been done, and it is intended to do more. Because, in fact, taxation is a part of that history of online commerce
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u21	Please be quiet. Please! Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u22	Congratulations, because it's you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u23	Please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u24	...because you're a minority. Minority. And, unfortunately... Yeah, yeah, like everybody else. I was the first one who spoke in plural, I got into it. I told them, "We're all changing our consumption habits." Most of us are changing our consumption habits. That is the great problem, the great drama of the associative tissue and trade – especially the trade sector rather than the associative tissue – and that is why real efforts must be made, but we cannot be filled with our mouths... We cannot be filled with good purposes when one thing is to preach and another is to give wheat. And when...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u25	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u26	And when we have and have had some parliamentary groups in this House responsibilities in public management, we cannot come up with ideas that now is when programmes for trade must be launched, because there have been parliamentary groups here that have had responsibilities in the historic territories in public management, and I would already like to know what were the integral plans of trade, at least in my historic territory. I'd settle for that. And I don't think we can be... I'm glad you woke up, because you were a little bit asleep and, well, that's what the intervention of a... And I am saying this because I think that, really, if something positive has had and has the debate today, today's full monograph, it is that we have been able to make some progress in the debate on the trade sector. I have a little frustration, a little frustration. I am convinced that if behind these walls we might have had some other meeting, calmer and calmer, we would have been able to participate in programs and knowledge about everything that was being done, because I am left with the doubt whether today's really has to do with a real desire for trade to move forward or with proposals or political approaches exclusively for me to stay well and to see if the opponent and the political adversary is wrong in the face of the associative fabric or the commercial sector. And I say that, because I have noticed quite a lot of ignorance in the House about certain programmes and what consequences they can have. And I think that when one takes, from the responsibility of being a Basque parliamentarian, we make a number of decisions in some resolutions, we should also know what the consequences are, because not all the resolutions that we are going to take forward today have a unanimous consensus, not all unfortunately, not all, and because we also do not know what the consequences of many of them will be. And I hope that the consequences will be, I hope, all positive. But I fear, for some, in the end, some projections that one can make of where things and trade guidelines are going, that this is not going to be the case, that today we have perhaps raised good expectations – I hope you really feel protected by each and every resolution, by each and every one of the resolutions that come out here today, because you will have a majority consensus – but I really hope that we do not have to regret and modify those conclusions or have to modify them in some way because you do not achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves. And I would talk to you about something that leaves me a runrunu of bad taste of mouth, and it is the question of the change of structures that is proposed with the inclusion of the hospitality and services sector in the change that must occur in the structure of the government, and above all in the MEC aid. Because I believe that, and I hope I am the wrong one, but I think that we are wrong, because hospitality today is true that it has challenges, but it is not the challenges that trade in Euskadi has, it is not the challenges, challenges and disruptive changes that trade in Euskadi is facing. These are not the changes that the hospitality has. And when we talk about programmes for the modernization of commercial equipment or commercial establishments, we are talking about a modernization that involves a strong investment to modernize, to really adapt trade to the new times. And I'm afraid that the fact of that change in the structure to get more money for also, for those structures, is not going to be the purpose for which this modernization plan is designed. And I wish I was wrong, but I think that if anyone today makes an abstraction in the place where we are and we think about what the problems of hospitality are, we will surely realize that they are not the problems that the retail trade has in Euskadi. I therefore believe that this proposal is, in the end, put in a bit of a counterpoint. Finally, I believe that the important thing today is that at least we are all involved in a great change and at least a reactivation of a matter such as the Advisory Committee on Trade. I believe that it is very timely and that if we have reached that consensus, it will be a forum that I believe is important; it is good for the Government, it comes to the associative fabric, it is good for all the representation and the agents in the sector, and I hope that we can happily see these changes in the consultative committee at once. And also, something that seems to me to be of necessity recognition, the issue of traditional shops, traditional trade, historical trade. If we have succeeded in giving relevance to this issue, it also means regeneration, generational rejuvenation and transmission of trade between generations, as welcome are all the efforts and all the bonuses. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Grakiles is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u28	Yeah. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good afternoon. Even to those who came from the merchant advocate, from so many associations and religious practices, good afternoons. I turn first to you, to all those who are with us this afternoon, to tell you or to confess to you, rather, that this format of the full monograph does not make me a special illusion either, because I think that instead of discussing specific issues about specific problems, entering into everything and over a single day, and with two hours to decide everything, and with cross-cutting issues between the different groups, because I have the feeling that a lot of resolutions will come out here today that the only thing you are going to create is a lot of frustration, and above all to you. Then they will say: "Why do these gentlemen, these ladies come together to decide things that are then, for example, impossible to develop, well because we have laws that limit us, well because they are materially impossible, etc., etc., etc. Then go that truth or my truth, in this case, forward, and I little new will be able to bring you. I think I have made clear this morning what the general objectives of my group, of my party, are in terms of trade, of this sector. The proposals that we have tabled, together with the Basque Socialist Group, have to do with the vast majority of these issues to which I referred this morning. You will have seen that the defense of traditional trade is something that we apparently share all the groups in the House, then... Politics, many times, also involves managing the contradictions of each and every one where we rule or stop ruling, right? Because it seems that when we come to this House we have everything very clear; then, when we are in certain municipalities we do exactly the opposite of what we come here to defend, etc., etc. I'm referring to everyone; don't believe, don't believe that I'm taking our savannahs off me either. Well, we have indicated the obligations that should be assumed by the institutions and what should be the objectives to be developed by the sector itself, but let us not forget, let us not forget that, in any case, the objective is always to be successful with the wishes and needs of the current consumer. It would be an update of that of "the Sabbath is not made for man, but man for the Sabbath." I mean, we can't, no matter how much we try, no matter how much we want to penalise some, to force others, it's absolutely impossible for us to take people where we don't want to go on this issue, so we must work together, both public institutions and the sector. That is why our motions for resolutions are aimed at this joint work, which is common between the institutions and also common, obviously, as I have said, with the sector, with the whole sector, with the whole sector. And if we fall into these games, we'll be doing a weak favor to the same, because, I said this morning, and I've been keeping it, the biggest enemy of the proximity trade is not another kind of trade with which they probably already carry –"probably" not; "surely" – they have lived together 50 years, that the challenge of the sector is not to enter into wars, but, as I say, to correct from character, from that DNA to which I referred this morning, and to know how to do what they have. In short, promote the search for alternatives to revitalize our urban and rural commercial areas; alternatives to recognize the silent work that women have been doing for years; alternatives to, in short, equip the sector with the tools necessary to face the challenges ahead. We cannot forget that today trade is a sector in which high qualifications are required. This no longer has anything to do with it, it's not what it was before the global village. It also requires, at first, an important disbursement, more costs than a service company, a local, a warehouse, a product... The risk is greater, and if you add that it is an oversized sector and that it is experiencing a revolution in how to connect with customers, the entrepreneur has to be very prepared and trained in many aspects of management to achieve the success of his project. Let me repeat, I said this this morning, but I think it is appropriate to remember this: it is up to the public administrations, the politicians, to promote the competitiveness of our trade, to manage urban spaces efficiently and to stimulate intelligently the synergies between trade, tourism, hospitality or even, why not, culture. It is up to the sector to look for its DNA, to deepen it, to undertake, to innovate and to be aware of the moment in which it lives, always, as I say, centered on the customer. A few brief words – let me change the subject momentarily – about the Zaldunborda project, which has already been mentioned in some cases. I will be brief, because we will have time to deal with this in committee. Look, Mr Casanova, we believe and respect the principle of legality and the distribution of competences in institutions; it seems that you do not, so you have been saying lately from this very attril. We will have time to continue to speak more deeply on this subject, as I say, but I do want to make it clear: from here go all our respect for the Municipality of Hondarribia. To me, personally, it seems to me quite normal that a project – whether I agree with it or not – for more than two years continue its march that a Parliament – which now in its person feels "attacked", "ultraged", "none" – can draft a law in 15 days. I think it's a lot more normal, but we'll get to the bottom of the matter when it comes to it. You said last week that this was arranged by the lehendakari with a call. We'll talk about this too, but do you know what the lehendakari would have to answer? Since he can't do it, I'll do it for him, if I may. Do you like movies? Have you seen the movie The Emerald Forest Well, I know that the merchants are aware of their situation and that they make deaf ears to siren chants. I know you know that it is your responsibility to adapt to the changing circumstances of the market, but from the public administrations we must accompany you in this endeavour, in constant collaboration and communication with them. Perhaps the time has come to give fewer speeches, to pay more attention to them and to communicate more with them and their needs. That's why I'm leaving these 12 minutes to the Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u29	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. In reply, Mr. Casanova, representative of the EH Collector, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u30	How long, anyway? Five minutes?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u31	You got five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u32	Mr Grajales, of course I believe in municipal autonomy to regulate those issues which are competence and which fall within the municipal sphere. In the same way that a city council cannot decide to set up a nuclear power plant or another type of regulation can be skipped, nor should a measure that has an extra-municipal impact be left at the dawn of the decision of a single town council. And like not only me, but the whole House thinks that, because it has passed a law that says that, we have the right and the obligation to oppose the Zaldunborda project because it is an over-limitation of competences. I believe that here some faces are falling; I believe that your intervention has been very enlightening, because it shows that, indeed, in Irún, saying that you are against Zaldunborda by your party looks very good, because all of Irún's trade is going to be rolled if that goes ahead. But here's another question. You don't have the courage to face up and defend this project directly. They're saying one thing in Irun City Hall that you don't dare say here, because maybe what you're actually in favor of the project. You don't like full monographics. I think what you don't like is losing votes. You, in particular, do not like the full monograph; what you do not like is to lose votes. What they don't like is losing votes and talking about frustration, talking about impossible things. We can also suspend the ordinary plenary because, basically, GNP has the same entity as the issues we are going to adopt here, and they have the same limitations and scope. For we stop doing parliamentarianism and let the government function alone, without control, without political debate, without GNP and without anything. Mrs Corcuera, I believe that if this plenary has so far been a full and peaceful white glove, it is, among other things and fundamentally, and on the part of our group, because we have detected on the part of the Government a change of attitude, a change of attitude. And we believe that that change of attitude has to be matched. With the change of advice we have found that there has been an increase in dialogue with political groups and also with the sector of associationism, and that is why we have not come here to make adjustments of accounts or to pass bills, or to stage issues outside the world of trade. You know that in relation to trade there is a rare agreement in this Parliament in which the opposition forms a majority because it has coincided in an analysis of support for the sector. We could have come here to lick the government, we could have approved what we wanted, we could have left it out of the whole debate, and we haven't, like we did in the Great Commercial Establishments Act, because there are no dark interests here of wear and tear on the government. This may or may not coincide with the opposition's positions of government, but there is no interest in harming the government with this issue, because in many respects – and you know it very well – we have negotiated, talked about and agreed. And one more thing: If this government doesn't have the budget, it's because it hasn't had political ability to have the budget. And the other one, and the other, that when the budgets were negotiated, it was because PSOE was hiding out for refusing to defend the left proposals. We still don't know PSOE's opinion. We don't know him. PSOE didn't have the courage to join the left plans, not to anger the boss. And you said – and it seems to me that quite serious things have been said here – that associations do not say one thing in one place or another. Similarly, if a certain part of the associations are afraid to say things in public, or are afraid to say things in front of the Government, it is because they know how to function in some sectors of the Administration and the mouth opener gets the stick. They may prefer to remain silent because they do not have enough conviction to believe that they can express themselves with complete freedom. Think about that. And he tells me there hasn't been a misguided policy. I told him earlier that I have tried not to be too belligerent with the Government in my first speeches because it is precisely now that I am seeing a change of attitude. That there hasn't been a misguided policy? That there hasn't been a misguided policy? The last legislature has already proposed here that the Territorial Sectoral Plan for Large Commercial Areas, through a PNL, be modified to close the legislative blow that had left us the Supreme's sentence. And the PSOE voted against it. When the legislature began, they said we had to make a new PTS, so yes. And it's been two and a half years. And then they said we had to make a law. And in the end it had to be the opposition, and you came to dialogue and the door was opened to you and you were part of the consensus, because it is not our intention to exclude you, but to legitimately defend the approaches we make. They have information, transparency and contact. How did the associations learn that something similar to the new Ikusmer is being formed and that the cameras are doing it? In the corridors, in the chascarrillos, taking a pot after a prize delivery; this is how the associations learn of many of the transcendental decisions that this Government makes, because it does not have the deference to have a systematic channel of information. And I'm talking about Ikusmer as I could talk about many other issues. You do not have a full-time Director of Commerce; you have a Director of Commerce who reconciles that very important responsibility, which should occupy you 24 hours a day, with being the spokesman of the Socialist Party in the Town Hall of Santurtzi. Do you think that's serious? You have passed with all the counseling campaigning, because one was a candidate in Barakaldo, another was a candidate in Santurtzi, another was a candidate in Gasteiz, you have had all the counseling legs up, you have had trouble, you have changed heads of cabinet... And they say they haven't had an erratic policy? Azkenean, gu merkatari txikien alde gaude; guk uste dugu etorkizuneko formatua ére badela; guk esan dugu eta berresten dugu formutu berriak etorri say the gelditzeko, éta ez dugu nahi desagertzea; guk uste dugu merkatariza-gune handiak egon behar direla, éta uste dugu ére merkatariza elektronikoa egon behar dela, noski, batha ez dituzte izan behar zigiak ez diren abantailak. Ezin dugu onartu that the richest man in the world, who owns Amazon, pays a million in taxes for all his multimillionaire activity in the Spanish state, we cannot allow it and we will not resign and we will do everything we can to avoid it. We know who's behind the small Basque trade, these people are here and many like them. Do you know who is behind the large surfaces, who are the owners of the large surfaces in the Basque Country? From Garbera, Unibail-Rodco , French company; Boulevard, ING, Dutch insurer; Megapark Barakaldo, Real Estate, Madrid partnership; Max Centre, Sierra Fund, Portuguese; Bilbondo, The Investment Room Management Amercanos, de Chingudi, Home Spain Real Estate, Socimi madrildarra; Usurbilgo Urbil, AG, a Swiss bank; Ballonti, Westinvest, et cetera, et cetera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u33	Go to the end, Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u34	On these we want to put a tax, a tax that could put 10 million in the Basque Government's pocket to carry out public policies, among other things, to support the trade sector. And it is possible to make an agreement to raise the budget and reach a compromise so that the legislature after the legislature and governs who rules. That is called a "country agreement" and that has been done at the initiative of the Socialist Party, it was done with the theme of R & D and Euskal Herria Bildu was there to support it. It can be done, and it must be done, and, in fact, today this House is going to do it. We will see if they have the dignity to respond to this sector and to materialise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u35	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Lopez de Ocarariz? He mustn't speak. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u36	Thank you, ma'am. I had no intention, the truth, of going out again to make a reply, but Mrs Corcuera has me confused in general, because the truth is that one thing is what happens behind the atrium and behind this House when you reach agreements, you consent, you dialogue, and another is when you appear here with your intervention and it seems – more than anything I say for the rest of Parliament – then when we vote we will make it clear that there are so many resolutions with agreements and with consensus, but if you listen to yourself, you sometimes seem to be from the opposition. You're complaining. Yes, yes, you complain, and you have every right in the world, and you do, but I think it's a completely different attitude. At least she's got me confused. In addition to his self-congratulation. It is that, truly, it is worthy of study, because you, and I understand that you come out here and remind us of everything the government does, all the programs, all the lines of work, list them, read them to us, sell them to us..., but, of course, it is that in the morning, if one listens to you or if one hears other interventions, we would agree on one thing, in what was the situation in the sector. If, then, the situation in the sector is a worrying situation and, of course, there are programmes, some lines of work, it will be, Mrs Corcuera, that they do not work, that they must also be improved, they must be updated, they must be developed..., and for that we must count on everyone to do so. It's simple, but no, we enumerate: "there's already", "there's already", "there's already"... Well, if there's already there's already there's I don't understand it very well, but, well, like this also happened to me with the approval of the Commercial Establishments Act... And I think it was... I don't remember well now whether it was Mr. Grajales or you. No, I think it was Mr. Grajales, now, on second thought, it was Mr. Grajales who said the things that made me get the most out of the seat. It was Mr. Grajales who said that "we are creating frustration." "We're creating frustration," why? Why aren't the resolutions going to be enforced, Mr. Grajales? You tell me. Are they not to be complied with as the Commercial Establishments Act is not complied with, when, in reality, the night before the next day's adoption of this law, with night and lightness, is covered and opened up to a project such as the Zaldunborda? Explain it to me, because I think there's nothing more to read to you... You don't have to read it between lines; as you said, it's very clear, it's very clear. And I appreciate it, eh. I appreciate it, because it's been hours and I always prefer honesty. Mr. Grajales, it's just that you also said that we've made a law in 15 days. I, really, am a super-eaten super-eaten person. That said, and by the way, it's just that I really didn't want to go out, but... The truth is, we're happy, and we repeat it again. And it's true, we're happy with the new way of doing government, from the department, for a few months now. At least, always with an eye to the opinion, of course, but we believe that there is a major change of attitude, and we have always talked about the fact that in that line we were going to be found and we understand that the resolutions that we are taking forward today so that the policies of the Basque Government in this area are developed at the hands of the sector and are consensual with itself, because please do not impose themselves, do not confront the associative fabric. Because, of course, this is another topic. Man, what you can't do is, "We do everything right, we hear everything," just that here they tell one thing and on the other side they tell another. No, Mrs. Corcuera, no. What to do, really, and I think this is... I am not very clear whether to follow Mr Grajales' instructions and the next plenary, for look, because we do absolutely nothing here, because totally, I stop, I really don't like this of being frustrated, to not being frustrated, we better do nothing. But I still think it makes sense. So let us make the resolutions that we adopt today, some of which I believe are very positive and with which I am very pleased, come into effect and, indeed, we comply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u38	Well, uh, let's see, quiet. No, it's just that you made me a little worried when you said, "No, it's just that you look like the opposition." Well, man, I don't know, like sometimes one is more vehemently when it comes to expressing oneself, but, listen, look, it's just that since morning, I, who have been very attentive to all the interventions, for catastrophic and alarmist speeches, have had a few. I think my intervention has been rather moderate. I have given data on how the trade situation was, how we saw it, and I have said something very important, Mrs García, very important, and I think you have not caught it, but I repeat it to you again. Yes, because this government, at least the councilwoman, certainly does not boast of any self-congratulation. I have already repeated it three times: in what we are in self-requirement self-requirement And I think that's very important, to take into account, because I do keep with something we've had today, it's that, in fact, we've come to agree, and it couldn't be otherwise. When Mr. Casanova said, "We could have marginalized you." Hey, what's in it for you? Any personal satisfaction? I don't think so, we know each other and I don't think that's your M.O. What I do believe is that we have come here, at least the Socialist Party, with a very open mind. We know what we do, we know where we can improve, where the mistakes are, because there are always mistakes, because we are human. Of course, we can deal with things differently, but neither by the fact that someone proposes certain questions has divine reason, because he does not have it. When there is no uniformity or unanimity in the entire associative fabric, we cannot come here as if it were God's word what each of the associations is proposing. I think we're adults to hear them, to contrast, to debate, and I think that in that tone we've always gone, at least when they've been with me, I think I haven't bitten anyone, I don't think I've thrown anyone; on the contrary, I think I'm an attentive person because they're the first ones affected and because I'm sure they have solutions. But I have also always told you: I know what is the reality of an institution and how you live from an institution the global vision of how a municipality has to work. Just as the trade sector's associative fabric sees it in a very specific way, but a municipality is seeing where the economic activity of the whole municipality goes and has to take into account the trade sector, but also the tourism sector, of course, and also the industrial sector of that municipality. And what's going on? That some of the proposals that we have been able to read and that have facilitated us – and thanks to the platforms and the associations, because they have facilitated the proposals in advance for us to analyze them – some of these proposals marginalized the municipality, because they consider it an enemy, an adversary. And there's nothing more wrong. We must work together and in coordination; we must not marginalize the municipality, thinking that all the money will remain and that it will not reach me, and that they will leave me lying in the gutter. That is not the case with inter-institutional collaboration. And I think it is very important that the Government's commitment to mediate on the subject of changes or future regulatory changes that could be made in the face of competences that we cannot exercise and that are making Basque trade live badly in this situation. That is why the counsellor's commitment to mediate is important; that is why this forum is important, because it is done in positive. And at least the Socialist Party, in all the agreements we have had with Bildu, Podemos and the Basque People's Group, has always seen an opportunity in those resolutions, because we have tried to do pedagogy. Not because it is more populist or more demagogic to say: "Lords and ladies of the associative fabric, we buy them everything". No, we have a critical attitude with some of the proposals made by the associative fabric, and we have made it known to you. On occasions when, of course, you have been with me, I have told you and you know my opinion and you know what it is. They are also aware of the opinion of the adviser. Of course he has met, more than 40 times, I was told that they had had meetings in recent times. She's been in June, I think, or May, March, and they've had over 40 meetings. They're too tight. We must also improve that relationship, of course, of course not. There we are. But let no one understand that the Government has an adversary or that the Government is struggling for what hidden interests. And one last consideration with regard to the Directorate of Commerce. Look, when a Director of Commerce, in this case, is under the Incompatibilities Act and the Incompatibilities Act is being complied with and can also perfectly, without neglecting any of its functions as Director of Commerce, any other public service option, as in this case it is part of a municipal corporation, there is not even half a reproach to make. It is not Bildu who to say that someone who has a responsibility in management, whether municipal or foral, cannot dedicate himself to another question, because you are the first... They tend a lot to accuse, to put their finger on, and then it turns out I sell advice, but I don't have it for myself. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. In conclusion, is Mr. Grivoleis going to have a word? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u40	Well, let's see, don't panic. And, above all, let's not take it tremendously when I say what we do among all of us. Watch out, eye! There seem to be people who have a special sensitivity. It was not my intention today to get you up from your seat, Mrs. García. And I'm going to give you the reason that some many many Of course, the government will have to move forward with what it has to do, not what you are asking it to do otherwise. And they say, "No, and this way Thursday neither, why are we going to stay here every Thursday?" Of course. And that's also honesty in politics, honesty, telling people the truth, not taking letter by letter what they tell them to put in, putting it knowing it's impossible. From there, what we have done in common is very good. What bothers me is that you use these people, that you join the independenceist left, the Basque left, the conservative liberal center left and come to agreements to hit this government using those who do not have to be used, those who have to walk alongside, those who have to listen and those who, ultimately, have to tell the truth, what can and cannot be achieved in this life. That I think is basic in political practice. You say, "Come here and boast." Man, to boast But, well, anyway... It has given me the feeling of much rhetoric and little knowledge of the medium. The Municipality of Hondarribia, which has been working on a project for two years... We'll see, we'll talk about faces. And I guess, and I guess, it's law from the beginning to the end, that it's not just law in those precepts that you like or care about. I guess it'll be law from the beginning to the end. And I won't be the one to give you the clue, but if you think there's some town hall out there that some law is jumping, maybe you don't have to come to protest here and go somewhere else. But anyway, I won't be the one to give them the clues. In these debates I usually remember what Joseph de Ligne said. He said, "Poor of him who is never wrong, for he is never right." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u41	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The discussion's over and before we get into the vote, we'll break down to order the vote. So maybe we'll meet the spokesman for a little while. It was four o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-one. At five o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at nine o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u42	Well, after the discussion, we'll vote. So, the first vote we'll make will be midway. We'll vote electronicly. First group: I want you to collect EH and stay together with Podemos' middle-class corrections. First middle-way: 7th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u43	So it's accepted 7th. medium. Next Group: 1, 8, 11, 14 and 10 media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u44	So they didn't accept it. 9 and 12 media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u45	So they're accepted. Eubertarians, Basque Socialists, EH Collect and Esquila Populars signed by teams: 15, 16, 18, 20. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u46	So they're unanimously accepted by the media. Other group: Eubertians, Basque Socialists, together Podemos, 21 half-way. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given, 75; the supporters of the league, 48; the contrary, 18; white, 0; abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u47	So it's accepted. Twenty-two-five media. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given, 75; the supporters are 48; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u48	So they're accepted. Twenty-three and twenty-four media. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u49	So they're accepted. EH Collect and Euskal Popula's media: 3, 4, 5, and 6. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u50	So they're unanimously accepted by the media. Eubertians, Basque Socialists, and the Esquil Popular Groups: 26th You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 57; 0; white is 0,0; abstenation, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u51	So it's accepted. 27 media. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 64; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; abstenation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u52	So it's accepted. 28-way half-way. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u53	So he's unanimous. Eubertists, Basque Socialists, EHG, and together the media that Podemos has signed: 13th We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u54	So the middle cut has been accepted. "EH collect, together with the Podemos and Euskal Popular Groups: Two. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u55	So the middle cut has been accepted. Eubertarians, Basque Socialists, and EH Collector signed by teams: 17 and 19. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u56	So they've been approved of the media. Next, we vote for the EHG team's proposals: 3rd We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u57	So it's accepted. This proposal number six. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given, 75; the supporters 18; the contrary, 48; white, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u58	So it's not accepted. These proposals are 10, 33, 34. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u59	So they're accepted. 29 and 30 proposals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opposites are 0; white is 0; 0; abstations, 46.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u60	So they're accepted. And the other proposals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u61	So the other proposals are rejected. We're going to vote for the American Basque Team's proposals. First Group: 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 15, 25, 27, 29, 30, 37, and 40. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u62	The proposals proposed, therefore, were unanimously accepted. Next Group: 16, 21, 22, 23, 26, and 36. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u63	So, we've been approved of the half-path corrections. 4th proposition. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 64; the opponents are 11. White, 0; Absences.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u64	So it's accepted. proposition. That proposal 39. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 66; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u65	So, it's not supposed to take the 39th proposal. We vote for 6, 14, and 28 proposals. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 64; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; abstenation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u66	So they're accepted. 32 and 34 proposals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 57; the opponents are 18; white, 0; abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u67	So they're accepted. 33th proposition. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 46; the contrary, 18 white, 0; the abstainations are 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u68	So it's accepted. 44. proposition. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 20; the opponents are 55; white, 0; abstenations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u69	So, it's not accepted as a proposition 44. A proposition 43. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u70	So he's accepted 43. proposition. After that, we'll vote for Podemos' proposals together. First group: 5, 11, 16 and 20. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u71	So they're accepted. 8. 15. 29. 29. and 31. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u72	So they didn't accept it. 7.14. 17. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 11. The opposites, 55; white, 0; abstenations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u73	So they didn't accept it. We'll vote for proposal 10 points. On one side, 104, 105, 10.6, and 10.8. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u74	So that's the point that's been accepted. We'll vote 10, 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.7, 10.9. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u75	So these points are not allowed. The 21st and 25 proposals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u76	So they're accepted. Finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the Eucan patriots' proposals. First Group: 15, 33, 38. We can vote. [[Words]] What? Oh, yes, yes. Eubertaries and Basque Socialists propose teams: 15, 33, 38. [[Words]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 55; contraries, 9; white, 0; abstain, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u77	So they're accepted. and the rest, that your will was opposed, should be concave. Number 10. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the contrary is 29; white is 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u78	So the 10th is accepted. 11th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given, 75; the supporters of the league, 48; the contrary, 18; white, 0; abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u79	So the 11th is accepted. Fourteen. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 29; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u80	So it's accepted. And the other proposals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-28.u81	So the other proposals are accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-five.
