ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u0	Good morning, everyone. We will begin the whole meeting with the first point in the subject-list: "To ask the question, the members of the staff of the Uribe Ebribes, the members of the staff of the United States of the United States, the campaign against the flu." Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President. Good morning chief, and good morning to all. Good morning, especially the head physician of Murga. Well, in this case, we want to ask this evening about the ventilation campaign against the flu. This campaign, like every year, begins at this time of year; it began a couple of months ago. And, well, after a few weeks, we'd like to know, on the one hand, which is your general rating, how the campaign is becoming. We should like to determine or know a little, or to know what the answers of society have been to this campaign. And, on the other hand, we'd like to know, if you could show us a little, the importance of your professional involvement in the campaign presentation, wouldn't you? It's professionally important when you insert it on this campaign. And so we'd like to know, compared to the data of the past few years, what was the participation in professionals this year. And we would also like to know: Some data has been shown in the media during the last week; the member has a network for tracking the flu, and, well, we've learned some facts and a rating about it. Finally, we would like to remark that we have heard you more than once of the importance of prevention, of the importance of taking risks, and above all of those persons who may be in a state of absurdity. We agree with this arrangement, with that plan for prevention. And, well, we think it would be important, at least, if you would remind us a little of what would be good for us and for the whole of society, the basic measures we can make against the flu, the little things or measures we can make against it, and, well, very useful to all. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u3	Mr. President, Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. Orbehail. The insertion campaign against the flu is still on the Eukadin, the 31st of December. So those who haven't been vaccinated still can. The camppaña de vacunación anti-gravital 2019, señor Orbeas, todavía no ho finaliado en Euscadi. However, I can tell you that if we compare vaccination data for the target population for the first eight weeks of the campaign, 6,965 more doses have been given than in 2018. This supposes that we have vaccinated a 2% more this year, compared to the past, by these dates: a total of 358,187 people. Regarding the vaccination of Osakidetza professionals, I will also tell you that this year, compared to 2018, we have increased the number of doses administered by 13%. Thus, to date, 5,697 health professionals have been vaccinated against influenza. Therefore, we make a first positive assessment regarding the response of Basque society and the professionals and professionals of Osakidetza to deal with the flu. In this regard, I would like to recall that vaccination is an act of responsibility. And today, because of its safety and efficacy, the vaccine is the most effective tool to fight influenza and avoid the complications that this disease can cause in the most vulnerable people. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of vaccination for all people with chronic diseases, over 65 years of age or pregnant women who have not yet been vaccinated: they can go to their health centre until 31 December, and they will be given the vaccine. I will add that Euskadi's influenza activity has experienced a slight increase this week, with a rate of 24 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, although to date it is well below the epidemic threshold, which this year stands at 55.7 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. However, since the start of the season, a total of 46 cases of confirmed influenza have already been reported, 14 of which meet serious criteria. In particular, to date, three people have died among the serious cases hospitalized with confirmed influenza. These are the data collected by the latest report of the Medical Surveillance Epidemiological Surveillance Network of the Department of Health and Osakidetza, which, as you know, analyses weekly influenza activity in Euskadi. Also this year, all OSI in Osakidetza have contingency plans to be able to meet all the resources, both personal and material, the needs and demands of Basque society. In short, I wish to remember these preventive measures, which are very useful; one must be used for use and throw out paper towels; two, cough, or sneeze, put a mouth and nose over his arm, and three often to wash his hands with water and soap. Today, I'd like to remember with care the use of the health resources of Hosa, to each need...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u4	Thank you. Thank you, chief physician.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u5	...the health fever that fits... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u6	Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the Congressmen of the World of Maddalens, to renounce so many rights on behalf of the President." Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u7	Mrs. President, thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. 15 days ago, you spoke of the modulation of feelings in the pliant control, the application of realism and of binomium, and you were talking about the right to decide. And in the days that followed, we've heard you say it's a totem for some people, a tabu for others. And you have added that a flexible reading of the right of deciding would be appropriate. But do we have a right to decide or don't we? That's the key: We don't have it or we don't have it. You said all this in a very special moment, as I tell you about our question, and I won't repeat everything here, but yes, when we're working around a new political status. And you're realism, possible, responsibility. You mentioned them. That's why I'm asking you, if you think it's a responsibilities, a right to decide, to refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u9	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. First of all, it's just, you know, "Muddy" as "I'm the president" that's been helping out the first day by this Congressman and a group of self-engineers that we've been asked for. After all, I think we're talking about the issues that belong to the self-engineers. And we'll do it again, if they ask us again. As far as I know, the business team has not given the final word, and here's the responsibility for agreeing. And the choice is not to refuse. The agreement strengthens us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u11	Okay. But, Mr. Urkullu, you have spoken, you have spoken, and you have suggested some opinions. Look, we think that descending the plain has no limit on the part of the state, that the state does nothing more than that of the State. And that he uses all his tools to bring them down. What's that supposed to do with the government of rights on our side? To renounce rights on our side? Do we have to make a residuation of rights here, and then they give us a blessing? I've heard you say you want legal and compact rights to decide. And for your information, I'll tell you: I love you, too. Tell me where to appreciate it. But there is no way that it should be so. No existence cauces, no nos proporcionan cauces, para que esto sea así. And the legal recognition of our people will be the result of a negotiation, only if a social power and a political power have been set up in advance. And this can only be done among those who recognize the existence of this people and among those who recognize that this people has the right to decide. And I'd like to know where you are, Mr. Urkullu. Right now, probably, there's no way to put it. But to think that, by placing the right to decide on a level without legal effect or on a level with a minor legal effect and reaching agreements with unionist formations will allow us to get out of the blockade in which we are, from our point of view, is false. If we renounce our rights, if we renounce the right to decide, there will be no possibility of establishing a national strategy from a political or social point of view. It is a road map that gives us a strength before the State. And in addition, it is the road map that we promised citizens; of course, it was promised by their party, and by Euskal Herria Bildu, and also by Elkarrekin Podemos, the flag of the right to decide during the election campaign. And that's why thousands and thousands of citizens work hard, because they know their future is at stake. And in this context, in this circuit of the decoration of the Spanish State, it is our business to remove or divert us from the furrows which will separate us from the ends of our country, and to divert us from the degradation and rights of our national rights. And that's what they're working on all the time. And when you say consent, you buy Divide et impera. We can't let that happen. We can't refuse our rights, Mr. Urkullu, because otherwise we can't go on as a people, and we'll also cheat on a great majority of this people. We will not cheat, and we will continue to work for our rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Irry, following my opinions, told her that the principle of legality is strengthened by the union of the principle of democracy. The establishment of a new kind of relation between the same and the same of the Spanish States, which you mention, strengthens us. The difference you speak of makes us stronger. In this legislature we meet with five distinct aspects, and the future of the auto-generacy is a purpose that unites us. We all have auto-gourage to-day and to deep down. And my choice is to open and strengthen the agreement. I've said it several times: a stronger internal alliance will direct a better treaty; do not reject the agreement, there is no better solution than the agreement. Two years ago, Mrs. Irrez, you agreed on the four principles which I proposed in this legislature: To confess as a nation of Euskadi, to take historical rights as a constructor of power, to promote the vicissitude of security, and to determine the ability of determining them, both in the state and in the Union of Europe. It's a trajectory page, Mrs. Irries. Two years ago, this is the road that you've been having the decency to go to Madrid together. The time has come for that route. The question is, what is your strategy? You want to go to Madrid and improve our self-organization, or give up our chance? What's your strategy? I'll be honest with you. it is necessary to penetrate and improve the auto-gravity. The agreement of the content of articulate text was obtained over 80%; agreement. And besides that, in the state, an opportunity which has never been seen may be opened for a proposition that is viable. To which I propose a political table in the state, because a political problem must be a democratic solution. And, I tell you, we can't give up our choice. It is up to us, Mrs Iriarte, to show the height of vision and vision to take advantage of the new time. Because my question is, are you willing to give up the improvement of self-government? To the improvement of self-government, with a proposal that has no feasibility and institutional path? Are you willing to approve a proposal to leave it in a drawer, prioritizing your partisan vision? This is the self-government paper. And it is up to us to respond to the majority desire to update and deepen the Basque self-government. Better deal is better deal. And, from the political perspective, I hope that wills will be added to the opening of a new time. A time of pact, which implies the recognition of the national reality itself and the assumption of the plurinationality of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, the member of the Podemos team made to the president about the Eukadian budget" Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u15	Good day to you congressmen, Mr. President. Last Monday, we filed the deal that Podemos and the Basques introduced together about the budgets. What do you do about this deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u16	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martínnez is a very simple answer: I fully appreciate the agreement I've made. Valoro muy positivamente el accerdo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours. martínez Hironez I believe, too, that political decisions cannot be understood outside the context, and that, upon this premise, it must be understood that the agreement obtained by Podemos and by Euskion should be made together. I believe that there are three circumstances that mark the second half of 2019 and condition 2020 policies. The first is the relevance that some of the central themes have acquired for Elkarrekin We can on the political agenda and also on the government's agenda: feminist policies, climate emergency and social cohesion. The possibility of an economic crisis in which it is up to us to draw our shoulders to define what policies we are going to face. And, finally, a political uncertainty that derives from a citizen's demand to reach agreements, to reach consensus, but above all a useful policy. It may also be that among the citizens of eupscals the sensation sometimes does not progress sufficiently, or that the system has defects, or that sometimes we lack energy and courage to go forward to the same rhythm of the hinges we have. We can still be far away from the 21st. but with this agreement, I believe we have won games, ja economics, and even those who allow us to continue political engagements. At least a few steps first. Beyond the assessment of the agreement itself and the impression that Elkarrekin Podemos has left on these budgets, what is being discussed underground is also what the role of the opposition should be at a time of political complexity and at a time of extraordinary economic complexity in a rapidly evolving world and a citizenship that begins to see politics as a problem and not as a solution to its problems. And together we've made a choice from Podemos: Doing an opposition builder. We believe that it is compatible to place the solutions on the table, to have influence in politics, and also to acquire certain definite achievements in order to improve the life of the people, and that it is compatible with certain politicals which we do not share, or even to defend an alternate national project. I think today we can say that the haurreskolas We do not settle for being critical, nor do we settle only for what has been achieved. We will continue to work to keep Euskadi moving at the pace it deserves, transforming and giving stability to our productive sectors, focusing on precariousness, ensuring equal opportunities and making decisions that allow us to say proudly that we are working to solve problems and not to perpetuate them. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u19	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mr Martínez, I appreciate very positive about the Wains and parties that support it, the Jelttist Party and the Sociists of the Basque Party, the agreement obtained together with Podemos, with a group of law-suits in opposition. I confess the effort which all parties have made in order to make an agreement, by the content of the agreement, and by the manner in which the agreement has been made, I positively appreciate it. Valro el acuerdo, por lo dot, en positiv tant por su contendo como la shape que se ha alcanzado. From the content point of view, you have referred to some issues. There has been a convergence of priorities: to advance the real and effective equality of women and men, by giving more means to initiatives to prevent any macho violence; to promote reconciliation; to reduce the wage gap or promote greater integration of women into the world of work; to accompany the fight against climate change, with a transformation of the productive and industrial model; to promote the opportunities of the so-called green economy; to guarantee the social protection system; to increase aid to those most in need and to provide more resources than expected for income-guarantee income; to provide greater investment in employment plans, taking care of young people, the incorporation of women and long-term unemployed persons; to make a commitment to improving quality in employment; to prioritize health and education services; to give priority to primary care and child education. Elkarrekin Podemos has underlined these priorities, which will have their translation into the 2020 budget and – I am convinced – also to the budget proposals of the coming years. I therefore highlight the contribution in content and also in form. Also the shape. And I recognize the attitude of Elkarrekin Podemos, and I appreciate that way of negotiating Elkarrekin Podemos, in this case, in the negotiation. The talks have been conducted through a frank and constructive dialogue, with genuine will to agree. Realism and shared responsibility have been applied, from parties that support a Government as well as a parliamentary opposition group. It has been implemented, since July, with the economic-budgetary guidelines that we explain to all parliamentary groups. This open and honest attitude of Elkarrekin Podemos, oriented to the agreement, has facilitated the desired end. Euskadi will have an approved budget, and we can continue to make progress in the model that combines human development and sustainable growth. I am sure, therefore, that this first step will follow, because we shall first be severe to fulfil all the engagements which have been made. And secondly, we're going to watch the interview that's been planned for building in Basque neighborhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Mymeal by Lorenzo Euscal Sociialists, made to the Chief Environmental, Land Planet, and Ho housing department, in order to aid the young with a rental as to the change in the Young People's Program." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u22	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Fortunately, in recent months we have had some good news than any other. The first is that the Socialist Party won the last general election. The second is that the Socialist Party reached an agreement with United We can make up government. And the third is that, immersed all of us in a spirit of pactism, an agreement has also been reached with Elkarrekin Podemos, to have a budget in Euskadi. And this is an interesting and very important news, because that is going to mean that this government is going to have a new budget. And that will allow this government to consolidate its government program and give new impetus to social policies that, from the various councils, were launched at the beginning of the legislature, such as the programs that are immersed within the 2018-2020 Housing Master Plan. The first master plan that is included or is within the framework of the Housing Act, adopted in 2015. A housing law that presupposes or gives a clear preference to rental policies in this country. A Housing Master Plan that aims to provide solutions tailored to the specific needs of certain groups, such as young people. The preferences of this Government, in the case of the policies promoted by Mr Arriola from the Department of Housing, are: first, to give preference to rental policies and, second, to give preference to groups, as he said, as are the young collective, among other things, by putting in place plans that will allow, through the apartments for social rent, those young people to have the possibility of emancipation, or as the Gaztelagun programme that is born in order to favor, precisely, that youth emancipation, granting direct aid to pay part of the rent, through the Order of 18 December 2018, which launched this programme on 1 January. In July, in view of the results introduced – come on, the results of this programme – you, Mr Arriola, decided to introduce a number of changes, in order to make these requirements more flexible and to allow young people greater access to this programme. I therefore ask you today when the amendments provided for in the Gaztelagun programme will be effective, in order to encourage more young people to receive rental aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Adezza. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Andueza. After a year of operation of the programme, which has enabled us to check its measures and draw conclusions on the basis of experience, I can announce from this rostrum that the changes to the Gaztelagun programme will be effective as early as Wednesday, the 18th, since the previous day will be published in the official bulletin the order that has been adopted precisely this week by the Governing Council. This means that, from this date onwards, a considerable number of applicants who had stayed out of the previous regulation will be eligible for the aid provided for the rental of young people. The changes that are introduced are: On the one hand, the minimum income is no longer set at the amount of income security income, but at EUR 3,000 per year, taking into account that this is the minimum amount requested in Etxebide to access a social rental. On the other hand, the upper limit is between 15,000 and 18,000 euros in the case of individual applications, and 24,000 and 28,000 euros for large family units and families, respectively. In this way, it includes a wider area of the young population, and it addresses the realities already detected by Alokabide in this one-year process that we have been carrying out with the current programme. The minimum age for access to Gaztelagun aid has also been reduced: the age is reduced from 23 to 18 years, equal to that provided for in other municipal rental aid programmes in Euskadi. This allows young people to gain access to help if they emancipate at an earlier age by meeting the other requirements and, in addition, solves the problem of couples in which one of the members does not reach the age of 23 and is excluded from the help. The rest of the requirements do not change: The age limit is still 35 years. The maximum amount of rent is maintained. The amount of the aid may not exceed 50 % of the rental price or 60 % if it is a shared flat, with a maximum of EUR 250 per month for each aid granted, as well as the economic housing benefit or the supplementary housing benefit. At the beginning of this month, a total of 1,602 applications had been submitted to the Gaztelagun programme, of which 757 had been resolved favourably and 444 had been refused. Of the latter, the main reason for the refusal was income in 76% and age in 5% of cases. We believe that with the more flexible criteria introduced a large part of these rejected applications will be able to access the aid, and that a considerable number of people who have not come to submit their application will also be added because they knew beforehand that they did not meet the economic or age requirements laid down in the programme. The fact that by the end of this year more than 800 young people will have benefited from this assistance to undertake an autonomous life project, we believe that this is a very positive fact, because it is a sensitive group that so far has not been able to access housing aid. We hope that, with the flexibility of the requirements, the number of applications will increase substantially, and that the percentage of favourable resolutions will reach at least 80%, which will undoubtedly help to improve the results of the programme, in line with the quantitative targets set by the Government for the entire period of the Gaztelagun programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u25	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, members of the Popula team made to the president about the budget agreement." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Mr Lehendakari. I come to agree with the question your new partner has asked you, so I am already quite answered. You say that you value the agreement very positively; it seems to me normal that you value it this way from your political position, not so for the whole of Basque society, nor is it our position. You still have time to continue to explain the goodness of this budget agreement, but I would like to convey to you some of the concerns we have about it, also in the light of what the debate was this morning. I have the advantage that it's my turn to close this first round. Mr Martínez said that, after three years, he has come to the conclusion that the opposition's role is to support the Government. I'm not going to deny Mr. Martinez because he's very rude, but I don't believe him. Nor can I believe that you have changed appreciably your position on the things you said about Podemos, the accusations of cheap populism, of promising a Happy Arcadia without any responsibility, or that you honestly think that the icon of the new budgets or of this agreement, which is the 4% increase in GIR, which accumulates to the increases that have been suffering in recent years, is the best way to encourage employment. Or that the social model that Podemos proposes is the most suitable also for the evolution of the employment of the economy in the Basque Country. I don't think you've changed that much, and I'm not going to say that you lied before or that you're lying now, because it would also be very bad tone. I will tell you nothing more that you are a victim of successive sincerity; they are different as time goes by. Perhaps the key was given by Mr Andueza in his speech from the Socialist Party. Mr Andueza is very aware of one fact, and it is that the new partners have something he does not have: they have one more vote. And, therefore, these new partners give the majority, which the Socialist Party does not give. And that is why he wanted to recall today in the rostrum a fact that is decisive, and he says that the epidemic of pactism that we are subject to in this House is the result of an agreement in Madrid between the Socialist Party and Podemos. And it tells you: eye, which, if you have budgets, is because the PSOE and Podemos have agreed in Madrid. And, therefore, we are seeing that Basque policy in this right of self-determination and of deciding what these gentlemen pose in front is decided in Madrid, and that you, if you have budgets here, is because there is an agreement in Madrid. And that, then, I ask you: does it mean that we will have to pay – and you will – another price also in Madrid, which is the support for policies that drive a supposed government of the Socialist Party with Podemos in the liquidation of labor reform, in increase of spending, in increase of taxes and in policies that anticipate, in the words of Mr Martínez, a new economic crisis? I would like to know whether there is a deeper agreement and whether the pacts, which today favour you, are then return pacts, which also oblige you to maintain certain positions in Madrid, as Mr Andueza suggests.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I start from what you started by saying, that the question is the same as that put by Elkarrekin's Parliamentary Coordinator and Spokesman We can: my assessment of the budget agreement for 2020 is very positive, and the 2020 budgets will be the most social in our history. Moreover, I do not go into what your thesis is or the thesis of what successive sincerity is, which it would be good for you to apply to it too, about successive sincerity, or what your guesses are about what the consequences of this budget or of this budgetary agreement may also be in relation to what governability is in the Spanish State. If I tell you that, again, you are wrong about the approach. I represent the Basque Government, and I am not the one who negotiates the governability of the Spanish State with the party that is called to form Government; it will be the political parties. Therefore, transfer your question to the political parties, transfer it to yourself as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u30	Mr Lehendakari, you are summoned by candidate Sánchez to start a round of meetings, which I do not know if it is for the investiture, but I believe it is, for the investiture of the President of the Government, to whom, I would like to deduce from your last words, since that is not your role, – I understand – you will not come. Look, today is 13 December and we are not going to be able to ask you a question until February for things of parliamentary life. And Christmas is coming, and I'm gonna make you a present. Look, I'm gonna give you Rajoy's book. [[Laughter]] And I'm going to ask you to read it carefully. He speaks of you; you may not like exactly what he says, but this book also speaks of putting the general interest before the particular interests. It speaks of an effort and a real belief that society can be improved and that sacrifices must be made. He talks about something very important to me, which is that he talks about loyalty. I want you to read it and think about it this Christmas too. I'll ask you about your readings in February. (Barreak) Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u33	Mr. Alonso, I appreciate the detail. I think, in any case, without reading the book, my memory is better than Mr Rajoy's. I believe that my memory has also been shown in forums such as the Supreme Court. And going to the question, which is the 2020 budget. For the first time, the budgets envisage a global approach to advancing the equality of women and men. They are committed to turning the ecological-energy transition into an opportunity for sustainable growth, activity generation and employment. And this is the priority, and we believe that 11,500 new jobs can be created next year. The agreement with Elkarrekin We can guarantee budgetary balance, with zero deficit and debt at 12% of gross domestic product. It strengthens care for essential health, education or social protection services for those most in need; it increases investment by more than 10% and innovation by more than 5%. I therefore believe that these are very good budgets. The budgets are also reasonable, realistic and positive for Euskadi, Mr Alonso, and I think that is good news. I think you should also ask yourself why you have refused, and explain why you have refused, to the negotiation of budgets. We know that we will have the frontal opposition of EH Bildu and the People's Party. However, budgets are not neo-liberal, as it says EH Bildu, they don't respond to a sovereignist drift or they're going to raise taxes, as the PP says. By the way, Mr Alonso, this week the People's Party, which governs Madrid and Andalusia, has said that it cannot lower taxes, and Rajoy, Rajoy, has acknowledged that it has raised taxes. You say one thing and you do the opposite. The succession of sincerity, Mr. Alonso. The reason we know it is because it is applied in Euskadi; it is enough to take care of the socio-economic reality and sustainability of public services. In any case, the 2020 budgets are reasonable and realistic, focusing on meeting people's needs, boosting economic activity and creating jobs. I would remind you that the 2020 budget allocates less money to GIR than when we approved it with you. And you know why? Because the improvement of the economy, Mr Alonso, makes more people work and do not need this help. This is the desire of all people: to work. And I also remind you that 60% of those who receive GIR are women and that almost a third of those who receive it are the pensioners who need it most. And this is an investment in social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interlation, made together by the parliamentary members of the Podemus, "about the exportation of war from Basques." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours. Martínez A few days ago we received a report from the Basque Government, in charge of Globernance, on arms trade and export in Euskadi. A report that we value for the comprehensiveness of the analysis, but which is also a report that develops in great detail all the aspects that the Basque Government cannot implement. The report says that we can deduce – and I am opening quotes – that "according to the analysis carried out in the field of competition in foreign trade, arms and the arms industry, it is necessary to stress that this competition is removed from the autonomous communities". And the alternative proposed by the Government is the creation of a code of conduct and transparency framework on good business practices, which would apply to Basque companies in the sector that voluntarily adhere to this initiative, although the report itself, the government report itself, indicates the limitations of these voluntary codes in the companies that have them. Therefore, having reached this point and in this matter, Mr Lehendakari, what is important is not to be spectators but to be actors, as Major Zaragoza said on Tuesday to collect the René Cassin prize. And it is true, as the report says, that certain subjects cannot be developed by the influence of the hand, but others have. For instance, Euska has a right to develop industrial policy. We have, therefore, the first instrument of becoming the industrial industry of war for the permanent development of man and of peace. The report does not say anything or question, and I believe that this Parliament and the Government could do so: to question the central government's policy on the control of arms production and trade, and to denounce the opacity of the interministerial board, which decides what, how, when and with whom to trade in arms. And I am certain that in this Chamber we should have the majority to try an initiative in this sense. Rules, boundaries, and incentives may be established to reduce the military industry from the Basque Country to the production of arms and commerce. That we also have a Basque Cooperation Act of 2007, which mentions policy coherence between cooperation policy and other policies. And this is still not done and we are in 2019. And it was ratified in a document, Framework of Reference for Coherence of Development Policies What this report does contain, for us, is an unfortunate suggestion to amend an article of a law, of Act No. 14/2007, of the Letter of Justice and Solidarity with the Deprived Countries – specifically Article 3.3 – an article which states that, in its policies of promotion and support to enterprises, the Basque Government will not cooperate in any way with those natural or legal persons engaged in the production, marketing or financing of armaments. What this report says is that tax subsidies and deductions must be facilitated, in exchange for companies being incorporated into that code of conduct, I say again, voluntary. I say again that the report itself says that they are codes that are not guaranteed to be effective. What we believe needs to be done with this law, with Law 14/2007 and, in particular, with Article 3.3, is to comply with it and stop subsidizing the manufacture of arms in Euskadi. These criticisms and others have also done well from the collective of the Refuxies, and I hope to take advantage of this moment to welcome the representatives who came from welcome, and who are really disturbing about the sale and export of arms, Mr. President. According to all the news, Euskazadi is the head of the arms sale in the Spanish State, in 2016 Euskadin was sold arms worth $85 million dollars. We're talking about guns, but we're talking about gun components, but that's the data about guns. He knows that this concern is not new to me or to our parliamentary group. This is how we moved him in 2017 in a PNL on arms sales to Saudi Arabia. We reiterate this in various initiatives throughout the legislature, and also in 2019, presenting a joint proposal with EH Bildu on the creation of a business and human rights centre, which came from the internationalization report of the NGO coordinator and promoted by several NGOs in our country. A proposal they rejected, after reaching agreement the afternoon before that parliamentary debate. We see in this report that the idea of a somewhat decafeinated and closed in the composition of that future observatory centre is not binding, and we will therefore insist that, if an agency is created, it is binding, participatory and affects the entire economic system. So we did with deep control at every news about the sale of arms and exports, about using Euscadian infrastructure for these purposes, as the port of the Saints' Port or the Loiu Airport, the use of public money to finance those operations. Because, Mr Lehendakari, for our group, the cooperation, whether active or passive, with the sale and export of weapons that can subsequently be used in war conflicts is something that worries us, has worried us and will continue to worry us. And we are concerned and will continue to be concerned, because, as long as they pass laws of cooperation that are not complied with, while there are laws of solidarity with impoverished countries that prohibit the financing of weapons that are not complied with, while we are told about policy coherence, you, Mr Lehendakari, set ITP as an example of the economic policy of the Basque Government. And on top of that, in addition to setting an example, we subsidize her. And of course it is an example and it is a leading company in the aviation sector, but, also, it is the same company that we learned a few days ago, thanks to an investigation by Punto.es newspaper. Because ITP has received direct subsidies from this government, but it is not the only company that manufactures components that are then mounted in armaments. I have the data, Mrs Tapia, here on the table: 167,000 euros in 2017, 145,000 euros in 2018, 183,000 euros in 2019. That's just ITP. And I have your written answer on the table. And that is the money that the Basque Government has given to ITP, and there are also other companies, in responses from their own department, that have been subsidized and that are dedicated to the manufacture of weapons or components that are then assembled in armaments. It is true that we have certain jurisdictions at first, I have said; and it is certain that the structure of several degrees of jurisdiction (Europe, State, and Basque) renders our action more difficult. Baina horrek guztiak, lehen esan dugun bezala, ezin du Eusko Jaurlaritzaren ekintza geldiarazi. Because, as you yourself, Mr Lehendakari, recently said, "In addition to legality, the humanist sensibility of the Basque people must be taken into account." "Se puede deja dejar de dar dero público a Emposis que Produccan Armento." These companies could cease to promote among the nations, and these companies may be excluded from public contracts, so that the tables of the Government can be turned over. It is possible to create this centre, this observatory, which has been proposed by social actors and which is suggested in a very decafeinated way in this report of enterprises and human rights to monitor compliance with them throughout the production chain, and, moreover, to be binding. And so it was approved in Catalonia. And speaking of competences, this centre was not appealed by the Constitutional Court. I mean, there's no competitive excuses. We can work to ensure that policy coherence is no more or less coherent; not the inconsistency we are currently in. Euskal azpiegiturak ebiltzea salatu daiteke, nahiz éta eskumena ez izan, hala nola Santurtziko portua edo Loiuko portua gera gatazka belikoetan ebiltzen diren armak exportazzeko. Galdetu diogo Gobernuari drink irritance gai haueu buruz, eta inoz ez of irizirik eman. Bakarrik iritzia genuine eskatu. Work can be done on the conversion of these arms and export industries into other sectors that do not involve human rights violations. Because we want an industrial future of quality, powerful, generating employment, generating wealth, but also being ethical. Kalitatezko etorkizun industrial nahi dugulako, indartsua, bathe etikoa ere bai gure herriialdearentzat. Mr. Lehendakari, there's a lot of room for manoeuvre. It is you who bind your hands so as not to act. Let's get to work, because as we can see – and we have given you some examples – we have a lot of stuff, we have a lot to do and we have the skills, skills and budget to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u35	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours... Oh, Mrs. Tapia, I'm sorry, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Martínez jauna, zuk zeuk esaten zenuen: the General Secretary of Human Rights, Co-existence and Cooperation of the Basque Government commissioned the Institute of Governance, the Institute of Democratic Governance, a specific report on – and I read the title – arms trade and export in Euskadi. The role of Basque institutions in improving transparency, export control and compliance with the applicable legal framework Esteforme, as you have mentioned, is presented on the 16th of November, and, moreover, the four great advocates have made it; these men are very well acknowledged, and their course, I think, is excellent in that sense. These people are Juan José Álvarez, José Luis Iriart, Caytica St. Olella and Unai Belinchón. They have made this report, four lawyers, who have well acknowledged the course, and moreover independent. And besides, the commission had three purposes, which were very well defined: on the one hand, the market of arms, exports, and transparency; the second, as it were, the United Nations looked forward to the way exports are made in those countries, and the establishment of control mechanisms. The report had three clear objectives, according to the order that had been made: And, on the one hand, there was the arms trade, its export and transparency and control measures, for the non-violation of human rights, international humanitarian law and, of course, the scope was quite clear, as you know well; the second of the key elements was that of arms exports to countries subject to sanctions by the United Nations or the European Union itself, and, thirdly, the establishment of control mechanisms by Basque institutions on business operators operating in those areas, always seeking greater transparency and deepening in the dimension of corporate social responsibility; those were the tasks of this report. And from this can be drawn various conclusions, taking into account, and you have pointed out at least in part, the competences that we have: on the one hand, from the analysis of the applicable legal rules, both from the internal side and from the part of the State, European and international in general, it is concluded, and you have said it well, that neither the Basque Government nor the Basque Parliament nor any of our institutions have any competence in merchant shipping or ports of general interest. Secondly, it is also stated that, in the field of foreign trade – and you have said this clearly – arms and the arms industry, the Spanish Constitution exempts the management of these powers from the autonomous communities and declares them to be of exclusive competence. Furthermore, with regard to the European framework, the report stresses that the European Union is the most intergovernmental body that guarantees and protects human rights at international level, because it has a dual guarantee mechanism in place: on the one hand it has... it has the Rome Convention of 1950 and the control that is made of it by the European Court of Human Rights and, on the other hand, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union itself, controlled by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which can be used by all those who consider that there is a potential violation in any of the above matters. Within this general framework, the Globernance Institute outlines a possible concrete area of action, where the role of the Basque institutions in relation to the Basque business operators in the sector is perfectly defined. It makes a number of suggestions within this competitive framework of the Basque Government, aimed above all at achieving this greater transparency and an increase in the responsibility of our companies. It proposes the design or creation, by the institutions, of a code of conduct and transparency framework for good business practices; it would apply to all these Basque companies in the sector and it should be voluntarily adhered to and, in the opinion of the auditors, it could also be... – of the authors, pardon, of the above-mentioned report – create this Observatory on Human Rights and Humanitarian Law in general, or the creation of a commission of good conduct, of conduct that must follow all these types of companies for trade, and well composed of representatives of public administrations, private sector, companies of the sector, obviously, customers and civil society in general. In any case, regarding the transparency of the... the report quotes literally the following: "In order to project in the future what is laid down in the regulatory framework composed of Law 19/2013 of 9 December on Transparency, Access to Public Information and Good Government, it would be necessary to amend Law 53/2007 of 28 December on the control of foreign trade in defence and dual-use materials, and Royal Decree 679/2014 of 1 August, approving the Regulation on the control of foreign trade in defence materials, other materials and dual-use technology products, while the Official Secrets Act, which is Law 9/1968 of 5 April, should also be amended". And I make this mention to highlight that much of the initiative capacity in this area is in the legislative branch and in the executive branch of the Spanish State, and I say this therefore on the part that in the immediate future it can touch on its political formation in both legislative and executive responsibilities at the state level, where different types of initiatives can be established, which would actually have an impact on the laws that need to be amended. In any case, with regard to the codes of conduct and the measures that the Basque Government could take, the report notes that there are few companies in the arms sector that have such a transparency code, such an ethical code and a code of conduct, ultimately transparent and open; hence, we also have actions to take. And so far for clarifying the content of the report, because I believe it is relevant. From there, what the Basque Government is going to do is to promote the application of the highest standards of transparency in the monitoring and control of arms exports. Moreover, it is an imperative that we must carry out, it is a normative imperative and, to the extent that it contributes to security, peace and the defence of human rights, it is the first of the actions that we will undertake. In addition, international bodies, both established at European and other levels, must – of course, for us – be the frame of reference for action. And for this reason, the Basque Government will also continue to work to ensure that transparency and respect for international human rights principles. It is our intention to address next year the development of a business and human rights plan, a plan that will include content on arms export trade, in line with international human rights standards, as it cannot be otherwise. And this plan will require a broad effort to involve institutions, businesses and, of course, civil society entities, which will also have to take part in the establishment of the plan. And this action goes in line, perfectly, with what is the frame of reference for the coordination and coherence of public policies that you have also pointed out, in addition to being perfectly reflected also in the government program – and you can read it – in compromise 171. Therefore, the application of the highest standards of transparency, monitoring and control of arms exports is a normative imperative and a vocation of this Government. The initiative to commission and submit this report is, of course, part of the Government, and has received criticism from some sectors. And, of course, it is at least surprising, because it is the initiative of the Government itself and it is an initiative to secure the guarantee of maximum transparency in that export, within, as always, the competence of the Basque Government. In the second round, I will make more references to this area. But, of course, I do not want to miss the opportunity, because you referred to a company and talked to me about direct subsidies. He has never received a direct grant. Another thing is that in R & D competition programmes, above all and mainly... not, above all and mainly not, 100% in civil aviation research. And you know it perfectly well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u38	Mrs Tapia, and Mr Lehendakari, who was the one to whom the inquiry was directed. And, yes, I must acknowledge the disconcerting fact that you almost never answer these questions to me, that you lead this report, because it is from a secretariat that is within Lehendakaritza, but good. Mrs Tapia, I say to you again: you have reported a number of competences. And I'm going to tell you that we have a competition – and you know it better than I do, that for something is your political responsibility – which is that of industrial policy. And there is a lot of work and future to do: in grants, in participation in companies or in foreign action, that the lehendakari himself leads it, with the agreements or memorandums that we make with countries or the trade delegations that the Basque Agency of Internalization makes; sometimes in a more transparent way, and others that we learn of while making the trip, as was the case with that to Saudi Arabia. And in some things, I ask you again, that we often ask you about opinion and political leadership. Because, if there is a coincidence in virtually all groups, it is, for example, in the Basque Pact on Migration. And that's a political leadership of a... in this case, it was Mr Lehendakari who led him, and the groups contributed. And there are so many things that are not within the competence of the Basque Government, that have been demanded of the European Union, the Government of Spain, was the lehendakari in the Vatican... And there's a lot of things we don't have competition in. Can't you do the same on the rest of the topics? Or can we only have political leadership or a different opinion than the powers we have, on the basis of the government's opinion, on the basis – also – of whether Parliament, for example, considers it appropriate? That, given the answers, I'm not so clear either. Moreover, it quite contradicts that policy which we have agreed in the Basque Pact on Migration, for dialogue, for coexistence, with maintaining a decisive and future stake in the arms and war industry in Euskadi. Because we are not saying that all this will close with a pen from tomorrow to tomorrow, but it will transform; it will transform into the future. I use Federico Mayor Zaragoza again, when he was talking the other day about "si vis pacem, para bellum", "si vis pacem, para verbum" And the proposals that the report makes are voluntary schemes. They are schemes of voluntaryness on the part of companies, which have proved – and the report itself says – to be "totally insufficient". And the mechanism that the UN is generating is also proving to be insufficient. That also, in all places where there is a code of conduct of a company are deemed insufficient. Because the BBVA also has a code of conduct, and it funds works that, for example, in Colombia are generating a rather serious human rights violation situation, also denounced in a recent report by the United Nations. Therefore, what is missing is, above all, will. Because we are not going to ask you anything more from where the powers of the government and in all the other political leaderships that we can do among all of us in the Basque Parliament, to move, in that transformation, from a war industry to a quality peace industry that generates wealth. Let us also be able to distribute it in a fair manner. And above all, let us not subsidize companies that generate and manufacture weapons by competitive competition. And that business and human rights plan "I'm going to make you a confession, Mrs. Tapia." I saw him, I saw him standing on a table months ago. And I'd like to know, and I asked Mr. Jonan Fernández a few weeks ago, where he was, when he's going to be or if he's going to be. Because it's something you talk, you talk, you talk, and you don't finish presenting. And there was a proposal on changing the policy of subsidies to make social clauses also in the area of internationalization. And that is also approved by this Parliament itself. But do you know what a senior director of the Basque Internationalization Agency recently said publicly in a few days? That it has not been done, nor will it be done. So I want to know whether or not it is going to be done, because there is an amendment adopted in this Parliament in that sense and, in theory, the business and human rights plan is also going in that direction. So let us say again: we are not kamikazes; we want to transform that industry into a peace industry. And, also, the centre wants to make it a centre of companies and human rights, of a binding nature, involved by civil society and also by companies, especially with a view to the future. Eskerrik asko, Mrs Tapia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u39	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u40	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Martínnez, you mentioned, well, in a way, that this report is made from another secretary and that I answer. And it's true, because it's their jurisdiction, but in a sense it's all the departments that have to do with it, and because in that sense the subject and the subject of exports is to me, that's why I'm here. However, a subject gives me attention, and you say, beyond the reach, that political will is required. It is true, but I have told you of another subject, and where there really are jurisdictions, and where you are, as it is foreseen, both in the Legislature, and as you have a certain faculty in the Execution, I say: Beyond political will, let us make a change of laws, which will prove to me, beyond your political will, that there is another will. I told you, in that sense, that the plan you were talking about is planned, and I told you, because it's in my hands, and the report says, as a suggestion, we'll fill it up and make it work. But, in truth, we appreciate this report as positive, because, in reality, it is done from the point of view of our jurisdiction, and many suggestions and conclusions result from it. And it's our responsibility and it's our will to execute them. However, in his first speech, he used – and let me say it – in a somewhat demagogic way the argument of Article 3.3 of the Charter of Justice and Solidarity with Depleted Countries. And I would like to say, with all firmness and clarity, that when the Basque Government is accused of collaborating with companies dedicated to the production, marketing and financing of weapons, it is in the process of – and I think it's not a mistake – in a falsehood at the root, in a falsehood that, in addition, has three great reasons, that I'm going to tell you: First, it is a fundamental falsehood, because the Basque Government is also complying with the law in this area; in all, but also in this area. It has neither approved, supported nor specifically supported arms companies, nor has it specific lines of aid to such companies. And, in the case we were talking about, lines of competitive competition, programmes in competitive competition, research, for research projects, which are perfectly transparent, in no case are they for this type of industry. Because, moreover, it is expressly forbidden, and so we have collected it. Secondly, it is a fundamental falsehood, because, of course, we are not in any case, from the Basque Government, or from any other Basque public administration, in the capacity to exclude from these calls any sector of companies, if they operate legally and outside that armaments field. And you're aware of it. Thirdly, it is also a falsehood, because, what has been done by the Government, is to commit ourselves in this way, ordering this report, which also allows us to have clear lines of action and that, in the field of arms exports from Euskadi, with the aim of improving that transparency and that mode of action and that code of conduct, we have the legal framework we have, but we are committed to acting. At the time of the report, I am not going to repeat it again, but, of course, it is very clear, and our commitment and its future projection is to find a general framework for development between institutions, businesses and the civil sector – and I have told you this – in that business and human rights plan; and that it is reflected in each and every one of our programmes. That is our will and that is our commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "The question is, that Cardinal Barrio Barroja, a member of the Populale Group, was made to the president, the murderers of Łódź de Abechuk, and the murderers of UUPV/Euskal University." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u42	Thank you, President. Good morning, lehendakari, counselor, counselors, counselors. Well, we knew from the press that the Basque public university was going to host a talk by one of the murderers of Jesús Velasco, head of Miñones de Álava, and Eugenio Lázaro, head of the Municipal Police of Vitoria, who is going to welcome him on December 10, at Sare's hand. We think, when we put the question, that it was Monday, that some action could be taken by the rectoral authorities, and that such an affront to the victims would not be allowed and that the call would remain in a misunderstanding, and this question would therefore be withdrawn. But it wasn't like that. The offense was consumed. Of course, despite the request of the associations of victims, of the families of the Lords Velasco and Lazarus and of many other associations (party, media, etc.), the talk was held. We thought you were gonna do something, lehendakari. We were talking about a public institution, which works with the money that this Parliament approves, administers its government, and that you were going to oppose the scandal. In this way, the UPV celebrates Human Rights Day. It is terrible, it is an insult to the values represented by the University, as if the monk Shaolin or any rapist is invited to address the University, to assess the rights of the rapists. López de Abetxuko violated these people's right to life. And we want to know your assessment: what do you think of what happened and, more than that, why did you do nothing to prevent infamy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, I reiterate once again my firm rejection of any act that may harm the victims' sensitivity or contribute to their revictimization. And, from this principle, it is up to us to unravel the legal framework and ethical inquiry. From the legal point of view, Justice, Justice, has not suspended this act because there is no rise in terrorism. You know the verdict of the Public Prosecutor of the National Court, Mr. Barrio. And it was organized by a legal entity, with the participation of people who have not restricted their rights, from the legal point of view. From an ethical point of view, it is obliged to care for the victims. And I reaffirm the clear position of the Basque Government: beyond the legal framework, beyond the legal framework, sensitivity and receptivity must be shown to situations that hurt the victims. The University acted in accordance with the principle of legality and freedom of expression. He made an express appeal to the organizing entity, Sare, to take into account the feelings of the victims of ETA and to act with sensitivity. On Human Rights Day, the day you referred to, I said, I said that, in addition to legality, humanistic sensibility should prevail, as also recalled by the parliamentarian of the Elkarrekin Podemos group, Mr Martínez Zatón. I express my wish, and I make the request and proposal that this controversy be used to prevent situations such as this from happening again. I ask the organizations to consider that if they require the union of society, they must show a minimum of sensibility. My request and my proposal is to prefer the ethical point of view, to take the ethical view, and not to repeat the conditions of this kind again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u46	Gracias, president. Gracias, president. I know that the conference was held, but I asked you more forcefully to reject such acts in public institutions. You are the lehendakari of all Basques, and above all you manage and administer, through budgets, the public, right? And you lead the plan for coexistence and human rights. And the plan for coexistence and human rights has a dimension, which is the agreement with universities. I mean, you take the picture, the three sectors, you, press conference... What is that, in front of the gallery? Do you know what you say or what you say or how you interpret the Peace and Co-existence Plan? We all know it, that is, there is nothing, Mr Lehendakari, only aesthetics and propaganda, when it comes to activating it to defend human rights and, above all, the memory of the victims. It does not serve that plan of coexistence and human rights for nothing; it is wet paper. You did not activate, lehendakari, any mechanism in your hand to prevent the act of a murderer named López de Abetxuko and also talking about alleged rights of prisoners, when he is unable to understand the right to life. Look, besides, we're seeing at the UPV ETA banners, photos of ages in all the faculties of the university, attacks at the university to a student by saying that he felt Spanish. Now talks at the university, in a kind of particular Heregun I mean, Mr. lehendakari, we thought you were going to activate the Peace and Co-existence Plan in the university dimension you have, and it's proven to be a thread. Look, Mrs Balluerka has unilaterally demonstrated that the Plan for Coexistence and Human Rights... something will have to be done, of course, to prevent the radicalization of the University.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u47	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, I have very much in mind the Peace and Co-existence Plan, as well as the Plan for Co-existence, Human Rights and Cooperation in force at this time. I have very much in mind the Act on Victims of Terrorism, which I follow on time, so it was also my responsibility in previous legislatures as a parliamentarian, even chairman of the Commission on Human Rights and Citizens' Requests. I have very much in mind all this. I am also very aware of university autonomy. I am very aware, therefore, of what competences I have as a lehendakari in order to avoid what I can promote and not prevent. I would like all of this that you have explained here to be put to the judge who allowed the event to take place. In any case, this society is moving, fortunately, towards the full normalization of coexistence. I share the essentials of your complaint and the indignation felt by the victims, but I do not honestly believe, Mr Barrio, once again that excessive speeches will help to improve. On many occasions, victims themselves have asked for measurement in public statements. Things are no worse than before, they are better, and they are more and more, although it is true that some still have the subject pending to recognize the unfair damage caused. We must continue to move forward in coexistence. There's no turning back. I have the conviction that what happened is going to serve so that situations like this don't happen again. The cause defended by the organizers of the event has not advanced a millimeter with this initiative; rather, on the contrary, it may have receded. The future of coexistence is to take the place of the other person, especially if he is a victim. Avoid doing anything that might harm you. That's all it's about. To show empathy. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the Ubeka Aranzeta EH Collectors to the president, about the latest evaluations fired around the Esunomia Institute of Education." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours. Ubera Arannet Education is about opening doors to life, opening options is education. I'm sure, Mr. Urkullu, that you want what you want for your children as well as for your other children, which is the origin, social and economic rank of those families. But if I'm wrong, you'll correct me. But it's just that the educational policy you're setting up doesn't answer that point. We're retreating in equity. We're increasing the segregation and the results are bad. They're not good. And it's not EH Collect says so. We know that the reports and the foreign allegations must be taken with caution, but the PISA receives it, ISEI-IVEI, which is received by the Save the Childen, and the Basque Council receives it. They all agree. And the report brought from the European Council this week is also very firm about the euca and OLMCE. And I'd like to remind you that it's a copy of the New Year's LOMCE and that you're limited to a mere continuation of it. If we study the data in detail, we go down to details, it's hard to ask you to do that in a verbal question, but I invite you to look at the documents with the magnifying glass, it's troubling what's going on with the results. The initial results are growing, and there are difficulties to include in the original results as well. High-level results are coming down. In the middle, well, there's no obvious change. So we're getting away from excellence. Another thing is how we understand excellence. If we'd improved in equity and stepped back a little in excellence, that would be the most normal, we'd shut up. But neither. Mr. Urkullu, I don't know how you understand excellence, but without equity for us there is no excellence. So this is what we have, Mr. Urkullu. So we think it's time to do something, to change the model of education that's failing and answering times of the past. Or, are you convinced of the policy you're setting up, cohesion, inclussion... You guarantee it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u51	Chief of Parliament. Mrs. Ubera, I'm at the day to thank you. One of them presents me a book. Another invites me, in your case. Look, PISA's data, as you said, is to be taken care of, and you said they'd be careful, but then you don't. I shall repeat what I have several times approved of education: Education is a popular challenge. Education is a popular challenge. That is to say, of all the society. We must proceed in the course of excellence, and cultivate the education of the person as a whole. And in these ends, it is necessary to maintain constant improvement. And I accept it clearly. However, I will tell you clearly: OCDE places us among countries where the highest degree of equity is to be placed. OCDE. And there's only Latvia in science before us. In mathematics, on the other hand, Latvia, Denmark, Ireland and Finland. Our education system has made great efforts in the last decades for the equality of equity and choice. And the results, I think, are obvious. Yes, we must continue to penetrate on these purposes, and I will not deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours. Ubera Arannet And I agree that when you say it's a popular challenge. But for this reason, because it is a popular challenge, educational politics must be agreed with the community and with all. And you are planning to meet a law that has not been agreed with any one, and also an example of failure which will bring eternalization, and thus cannot be improved. And what we need is more than one law. What we need is a change of look. It is a matter of observation to put aside plans, to justify the work of the professors, and to reject the papers and bureaucracy which they aim to control, and to give to schools the trust and the autonomy conditions of their work, and to separate the controls and bureaucracy among them all. We have to become the home of all students. We've got to become a home for all students. And what you're doing now is open doors for certain people and close the door for others. And that's what you do according to the economic level of these people, or according to their origin. And that can't be. That must be changed. And that's...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Time's up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rebeka, Mrs. Rebeka Ubera. OECD PISA... , bai, bai, zuk esan duzunari weretzunez. OECD PISA... "Euskadi is in the group of countries with the highest equity and the limit of those with the best results, being the one with the highest equity." OECD PISA. Hemen daukazu. "Euskadi ranks in the group of countries with better results and greater equity, together with Japan, Estonia, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Latvia or Slovenia." OECD PISA. Our purpose is to always improve the educational system, and we know that we have work before us, but you must accept good results: the school rate is one of the lesser European in Europe, and we have the highest student rates in the Hebrew professions, we have the best rate of work. We have a lot to go on, but we must recognise the path we have taken. The example we have today, yesterday and today, Mrs Ubera. UNESCO has shown interest in learning about the Inclusive School Framework Plan, the Immigrant Student Care Plan or the schooling report of students of foreign origin in Euskadi. UNESCO. Yesterday and today. Education Adviser Presented at UNESCO Headquarters "That's why he can't be here today." The Education Adviser has presented our policies in this area at UNESCO in Paris. As for the Basque, you've mentioned it before, we've known it for a long time, and we've admitted that even in the legislature, the Basque takes a long time to go to higher levels from the lower levels of education. In secondary education, the use of support decreases. Usage, use. In the courtyards or in the out-of-school activities the eucharist loses presence. 15% of the thesis in college, compared to last year, has doubled. During this period, the eucution of friends or family loses presence, and in the presence of this situation we are all important; The system of education has greatly assisted the company, but not only education, but society itself has something to say. This is a popular challenge. It is our whole society, and we are to render the culture of perpetual improvement the symbol of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, the lawmate of the Podemos to the president, about the state of the female sex." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. President, good morning. In 2012, the SOS Calls centralized service, and last May you did the same thing with the SDAE service for the Borders, and now you want to do it with the Osamate Emergencys. These process of Plantization has brought us conflicts, precity, flaws and damages. And my question is, since you are the President, do you think our troubles are better or worse?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u57	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In reply, Mrs. Murga, your word is... Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u58	Thank you, ma'am. President. Mr. Becerra, emergency services taken from 112 work better than seven years ago, but it doesn't make any sense if you keep them in vain comparison. Emergency services, 112 care services, are better, because their human and technological management has evolved better; because seven years ago the geolocation of incoming calls in 112 was a desire, and today it is a reality; because seven years ago the smart mobile phone was not so widespread; because today we have apps like the app Becerra jauna, begiratu azken urteotako ibilbidari. Larrialdi-zerbitzuen inguruan gauza asko hobetu will say. And if you intend to question the improvement of services by a number of technical incidents, such as the timely cutting of an electricity supply at the Txurdinaga Emergency Coordination Centre, I think it is sincerely mistaken. Because, it is true, in October we suffered a series of technical incidents; we recognized it, we explained it, we explained it in public, and also in private to the people concerned. It's been technical failures, I insist, technical and computer failures on time... Punctual, detected, corrected and stabilized. Because even in those cases of technical incidents, contingency plans have worked. And, above all, I have to tell you that the staff that attends the service has worked, that is what really matters, that the service works and that those more than 2,000 daily calls that are attended to from SOS Deiak/Emergencies will continue to be handled normally.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u59	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u60	Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, when I mean that the service is worse, you said "it is that human and technological management is better and, therefore, the service is better". Look, I'm gonna talk to you about technology management... A letter received on past dates from an SOS Deiak worker. I read: "In July a new software was implemented for the reception and management of incoming calls. To this day, it is not used since it has always given trouble. We got to work more than two months in manual mode – more than two months, not on time. The call recording system has been replaced by another one that does not work well. It doesn't give us access to real-time recorded calls, and it works worse than the previous one. The software we usually use usually gives problems and often hangs up. We have to move on to the reserve. In this transition, calls are lost, and there are even times when we take emergency pen and paper – pen and paper. If you play a weekend, there may be no solution until Monday, and we have to throw it away. These cuts in service affect everyone, SOS Deiak, SADAE, Osakidetza, Ertzaintza, firefighters, traffic..." This is the technological improvement you've had. But now I'm going to go to the improvement of human management. Look. In January 2017, I defended SOS Deiak's workers for the first time. 80 %, since then, 80 % of the staff, is gone. 80% of the staff is gone! In SADAE it has gone more than 50%. And, in particular, from Gipuzkoa's staff, 100 % has gone. In other words, the management you have made of the human capital of emergencies – not of SOS Deiak – in terms of knowledge and experience, is defined by itself. But, the quality of service is defined by three parameters: proximity, precision and agility. When you centralize a service in Bilbao, in Txurdinaga, closeness passes to better life, because those who live in Oion or Lizartza have no closer Txurdinaga than those who had Vitoria-Gasteiz or Donostia/San Sebastián. As far as accuracy is concerned, the wrong locations have multiplied by five, precisely because the people working in Txurdinaga do not know the territory of Gipuzkoa or the territory of Araba. And as for agility, what am I going to tell you! The October 13 blackout is the first of many that we will have in the future. It's been a temporary day today, tonight. I don't want to think about what would have happened if the system had fallen. You were fortunate in October that Osakidetza's emergencies are not yet centralized. Otherwise, that would have happened. And I'm going to address the lehendakari, who, after all, is the most responsible for safety and health. Because this is not just a matter for the security of this country. I ask the lehendakari to reconsider the policy they are pursuing. This is a whim that has had a director of the Department of Safety against the criteria of hundreds of Basque emergency workers. This centralized system failed in Catalonia, and they had to push it back. And every minute the system doesn't work is three calls that get lost. It's three lives that are at risk, and I don't think you want to be responsible for those lives. Segurtasuneko Sailburuak One in four calls, in fact, is related to health. But I have explained to you on more than one occasion, and you reiterate it here again, despite that explanation: one thing is the management of calls in 112, as I say, centralized since 2012, and another thing is the direct attention of the incident or emergency. The resources for the incident or emergency are still territorialized. Territorialized! Those of Álava are in Álava, those of Bizkaia in Bizkaia, those of Gipuzkoa in Gipuzkoa. There's the fire department. There are Ertzaintza's services. There's ambulance services. Nothing has changed in that regard at all. A first level is 112, where the call is received; a second level, in fact, is SADAE, the emergency support service, consisting of ertzainas, which are responsible for making the procedure work, coordinating and activating the services. And another very different thing is the resources and where those resources are located, and those resources are close, close and in each of the territories.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u61	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interregation, the Forest, the parliamentary members of the United States of the House and the United States of the Union, made for the chief physician of the United States and Society, concerning the cares of the institutions of the Guardians." Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours. houserary legrand Asensio wrote after the 8th strike of March 2019, that almost everyone had become feminist after last year's strike and massive mobilization. And in this line, some have begun to proclaim the feminism of 99%, to give out the antikapitistic character of feminism, the intersecrational and the internationalist. The idea of 99% is derived from the United States of America. And one of the authors, Nancy Fraser, explains the need for this: "We were angry at the direction in which hegemonic feminism of the United States was taking; that is to say, with the only liberal and individualistic view of the United States. The only concern of this Feminism is to break the roof of glass, which has meaning and importance in what we call progressistic neoliberalism." It is a solution that the woman's efforts to transport the best-paid and best-paid labors to the mascuulinos had long since been refuted by feminism. The movements themselves and the investigators who reflect upon it have proved that it is a kimera to be a masculinized work for all of us, and that in this analysis we have forgotten the vast base which can support the tip of the iceberg. They talk about the blackmail workers, the feminists of the economists, because we thought that because we'd eaten well, that active working man in his sleep and dressed is playing with steam. But no... He will prepare food, keep a good household atmosphere, clean his clothes, and, after all, he needs people to watch over him, and who will love him every day, so that he can cross the doors of his employment every day. We must also remark that there are people in this world who have the inability to employment, who are also composed of the public, and that they are neither less valuable, nor invaders. But our society is not ready to accept and choose the contribution of each. The common people are therefore continually divided in two; in this case we do this distribution of assets and non-actives from a strictly capitalistic point of view. We have no other way of understanding the contribution which each of us contributes to the public, but only through employment and economic contributions. And that is evident also in the works of care which we discussed beforehand. These surveillance jobs have been free and feminized. It's just that he arrived in a moment when the women jumped at the payoff, of course with all their rights. But where was the other job left? There is, at the expense of the double or triple work of women. And as for those who could not or should have been entrusted to any other person, at the expense of precocious women, a free work, to make "trabajo gratis, un poco menos gratis," soraya Follelli told us at the Board of Police, who is a worker of a former Biscair. So we're talking about appropriating, appropriating life, free, feminizing life, bringing it to the center, setting it to the value. But what is it to put life in the centre? The report at the beginning was made for the 8th of March strike, which was reported as follows: "To take the centre is a material and symbolic action. It transforms hegemony. Taking the center requires a change of structure and the aspect of power. The place in the centre of life affects the whole structure of society." So we're not interested in superficial changes. And we're not satisfied with the little improvements that led to the %1 women. Like glass ceilings, we want to break sticky floors and pretors. And we don't reach this last one because it's not glamour. And the only exercise of looking is to listen. Listen to the staff of the men who are on strike in the mornings when these people wake up, change their diapers, shower them, shave them and wear them for breakfast. Listening to one house Interna That's why we demand collective responsibility for life, for everyone, to make lives for all of us. To begin with, we must confess that we need each other, because we are not the autonomous and rational subjects we come to the market. All this shows us that life in our society is more valuable to us than to others in those times when it has penetrated the crisis of competition. We proclaim the social reorganization of care, the indirect axis of public policy, so that the custody of men may not be left behind to the rights of oppressed. To do this, the institutions ought to be taken care of by the men. And not only that, we have to change our values from the core, personal and common relations, everyday praxia, production habits, public policies, land conditioning... For public policies have not discovered how to subvert the present state. The data at FOSSA, the EPDS research, or the investigations made this week by the UGT union around our pensions show us that there is a deep study, but that the predisposition to transformation is not what is required. The end of society itself must be life, not the production of wealth. You don't have to look at a reform. We want to place our eyes on the social reproduction area, to keep in touch with life that makes possible. November 25 said, "It's all in the street," members of the feminis movement of the Basque Country. I think it's a very good fool in the face of the situation we're talking about: they have been said to be said, but we are ready to do what we are to do. What are you ready to do? As long as we don't quit our lack of action and strengthen public intervention, capital, capitalism is taking advantage of it. How can we allow people to do business with people who need care? Yesterday, we had a discussion about the digital platforms. And there's one I'd like to mention today: Cuideo. Here, with these offers, I know if they're called just like that, we can find them. As long as we're not doing anything, capitalism is taking advantage of women's shoulders, prercancy, poverty... To keep going deeper. So long as we continue to look at heaven, the others will continue to penetrate into dignity, and a few will fill their pockets. And since we're in front of it and in the last year of legislation, and we're reflecting on the subject, the action... Since you have been asked, we should like to know what you intend to do, Mrs. Artola generous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. I'm happy, ma'am, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u63	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days. As you share with me, Mrs Etxebarrieta, moving forward in a more co-responsible and egalitarian Euskadi is one of our key challenges of this 21st century and of this Government as well. I would like to clarify my personal point of view before talking about measures already in place or planned for this final part of the parliamentary term, which is what I am being asked to do. In the face of the feminized role of caregiver, I bet on the co-responsibility of the couple; in the face of the exclusive sacrifice of women, I bet on the shared resignations as a couple and institutional support for co-responsibility; as a woman, as a mother, as a daughter, I don't want to give up being a caregiver, but I also don't want to give up my professional growth. I am, like you, one of the thousands of women who juggle to make our professional and family life compatible, and the truth is that reality offers us a clear image, in which women are the main responsible for care, tasks that I again highlight, as they are fundamental to the development of our society. Despite the progress made in the integration of women into the labour market, we are still given exclusive or at least majority responsibility for the care of people; children, older persons and dependent persons cannot be our sole responsibility. For the Government, therefore, it is a priority that Basques and Basques can reconcile personal, family and work life, and it is a priority that they can do so on an equal basis. As you know, the recent amendment of the conciliation decree, with the incorporation of a paid leave of up to 16 weeks for both parents, is a clear example of this. Structural obstacles such as the wage gap between women and men also cause the choice of who receives permits or measures or half-days to be conditioned and we must move towards a paradigm shift, when talking about how the care needs of an advanced society like ours need to have. This change is already reflected, as an objective, in the 7th Equality Plan for Women and Men, also in the operational wage gap plan, also in the Family Support Plan, and will soon be reflected in the caregiver strategy. Our aim is to create a network of care support that is sustainable in terms of continuity, quality of life, equity and justice. Since the beginning of this legislature, we are taking steps in that direction. We have already transferred from this rostrum initiatives that we have put in place for the responsible reconciliation, in the work with the companies, also in the equalization of the availability of both parents in the care of the children. We have also advanced that we are working on a caregiver strategy, which we will be ready to present before the end of the legislature. That strategy is designing and designing by a partipling process, with elderly men, guards, and professionals working in that area. That strategy will have a test on the guard's quantization and the profile. This strategy will provide an inventory on services to help people and guardians. As I said, this strategy is being formulated and designed, through a participatory process, with the elderly themselves, with caregivers and with professionals and professionals working in this area, and this strategy will also have an analysis of the quantification and profile of caregivers. This strategy will also provide an inventory of caregivers' people and services, and this strategy that we will adopt in 2020 will include an international analysis of care measures and plans for caregivers of all kinds, both professional and non-professional. With the strategy, we also seek to recognize the contribution that caregivers make to the well-being of society as a whole, a contribution that quantitatively would be difficult to replace and that qualitatively is irreplaceable. It is well known that dependent people have always shown their preference to continue in their usual environment with informal support networks, and a study carried out for the European Union also recommends prioritising care at home, so that people who age can continue to live as long as possible in their environment. Support programmes from public institutions need to be strengthened to ensure quality care, both formal and informal. We consider that when a person in a situation of fragility places the confidence of his or her care in your hands as a family member or as a person in his or her emotional environment or as a professional, we feel it as a privilege, and it is an exercise of this responsibility, an opportunity to return the care we have been receiving throughout our life. I repeat, we want to give importance to those who care and care for those we love. And in order that this care may live as an opportunity, it must be necessary that the development of the initiatives, helps, and rest-programs, should not interfere with the development of the professional career. Training in care in order to be able to know the processes of evolution of the unit and to provide adequate care. We are therefore moving forward on a proposal that includes measures for information and advice, training, breathing programmes, taking into account the long-term care and the impact this has on caregivers. We are paying particular attention to the training and qualification of caregivers. And we are also working, in collaboration with other actors, on innovative care projects, as we believe that we have a great challenge ahead. A great deal of progress has been made in the empowerment of professionals involved in the care of dependent persons. The consolidation of experience in work skills and training to acquire new and better care skills is one of the goals we have set for the coming years. And, although we need to strengthen professional and institutional care, socially we cannot afford to lose non-professional care, family support, that of friendships, that of the neighborhood,... We call this care "primary", because it is considered prior to institutional and, in many cases, is irreplaceable. But we also promote professional care, strengthening social services of public responsibility in the field of care, which also include respite services and support for caregivers. As I indicated to you, it is important to promote the co-responsibility and involvement of men in care or volunteering in this area. And care must be an option and not compromise women's life projects. We must respond to a new generation of caregivers. Men and women, willing to care, but with support, without compromising their life plan, strengthening formal support, breathing and support services for caregivers, with information, guidance and training. And, in addition, we have to address the situation of older women who have been caring for many years, caring for many years, without recognition, caring for 365 days, 24 hours. And that recognition and that casuistic and those women will be included in the care strategy that we are developing. We must detect inadequate care situations, both for the caregiver and for the caregiver, and seek, in these cases, alternatives to formal care. We must therefore take care of both informal caregivers and professionals. The Basque institutions have been working on this for many years now, and I must acknowledge and thank the institutional leaders for the foundations they have laid in our society. We, from the skills we have in the department, the Basque teleassistance service BetiOn is working on a specific program for the current caregivers. We also have volunteer study projects linked to BetiOn. We are working with innovative tools from ICT, with experiences already launched in the pilot phase. Initiatives such as "OK at home" or new projects presented in Europe. And we are also working on training and accreditation, in collaboration with the Nazareth Vocational Training Centre and the Matía Foundation. In addition, based on the budget agreement reached, we will work on the design and implementation of a plan, in conjunction with the strategy to support caregivers, in order to involve the entire society, which promotes another way of organizing care, from a transformative point of view. As you see, in order to make further progress, to improve, we propose new measures, new strategies, such as those I have presented to you in this inquiry. We have a lot of work to do, we have a lot of goals to achieve, and we all have to be able to achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u65	What a lot of things! As we have already told you, the principle of equality has shown, in our opinion, that we have not arrived at the present serious problem, because it has a woman's face. or a woman's face, poverty's pensions, my extreme poverty, my homeless, my wages. And in the end, we don't only see the point of view you plan. Yes, but not just that, because in wages, women don't have a problem with their professional careers and their jobs, as we understand nowadays, it's only a matter of chance. The problem is that these conditions are not the conditions of feminized sectors and of the field to improve the conditions of work. We have spoken of the situation which happens in the old days; we may talk of domestic services. And, well, the program... and we asked what it would be. Eta zuek wasntzuten said that the aim would be to develop activities for the implementation of a pilot programme of advice and support for aid to enterprises, to promote greater reconciliation, through attention, greater flexibility in working days and methods, identification and dissemination of good practices in the area of co-responsibility, actions such as days, development and dissemination of guides and manuals, and promotion of networks for the exchange of experience. Wow, that's a bit of a pilot program, like they're not doing it until now. And again, we are talking about the plan and strategy of caregivers, which we are waiting for when it will arrive. Because, well, he also forgets to say from where this request comes from. Here, the colleague of Myria Kortja, who proposed at his own time a monographic survey of the family police and the demographic challenges, was discussed and agreed that an integral watch plan should be brought to 2019; we wait. And even when we were talking about plans, even after a diagnosis of our domestic workers, we were also asked to make a plan of work on the most important conflicts with the diagnosis. About the workmen in the house, we even brought to this parliament a report of some serious discrimination which we had accused at the commencement of the legislation. And from the beginning, rather than be right, we waited for a two-year study. And in the end, this study replied that what we said from the beginning, there was no reason to exclude domestic workers from these subsidies. Eta etxeko langileekin jarraiuz, Lanbideri ere, ardura hartzea eskatzen genie. Baina, were you from Lanbidek? Ba formakuntza bat eskaintzen duela, a certificate of professionalism, where the three modules are: perform the process of making food in its phases of purchase, organization, handling, cooking and conservation; perform a process of washing, ironing and sewing, more basic, manual of clothing, of household clothes and preparation of beds; and, three, perform the cleaning of private homes... It seems to me that it is not understanding what we are talking about right now, when we are saying that care is staying at home. And when we're saying that care is staying at home, we don't share that vision in which the best care is what is done for love and done in the family. The best care is the best care, as the best social policy is the best social policy, and the State is obliged to give such care, people have the right to care or not to care; that is reflected in all equality plans. I would mention the equality plan that Director Laura Gómez made at the time, which seems very interesting to me; the paradigm shift could analyze it there for example. Couple vs. I'd like to finish it as I've begun: It's time to start with the policy required by 99%.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u67	Thank you, ma'am. I would like to reiterate, Mrs Etxebarrieta, that we are working in the present and future, and that we are also laying the stable foundations for a paradigm shift in the responsible care organisation. I have not said that the best care is the one done for love. What I am saying is that I do not want to replace professional care or informal care with professional care only; I believe that they are perfectly compatible, and that I have the right to care and that I also have the right to have the institutions provide me with the professional services in which they have competence and which they have to provide me. The care strategy that I transferred to you in the previous intervention was designed by this Government within its plan of strategies that we had to present, with a timetable that was established, in which we committed ourselves to presenting it in 2020. I know that Mrs Kortajarena in that GNP and in that proposal, which is also concerned about this matter, presents a number of initiatives, which coincide with those which the Government has and which we are going to move forward within the time limits we have committed ourselves to. It is, as I said, a new paradigm that helps to break the wage gap, because we also agree with you on that. We have to work to break that wage gap, in which the needs of care are met, without anyone having to give up anything, neither their income nor their professional career, and that if you want to take care of it, you can do it with the help that the institutions can give you. And I believe that the Government in this case is pioneering in many measures to facilitate this reconciliation of personal and working life, and I believe, Mrs Etxebarrieta, that it will have to recognize that. I have moved you, in some interventions and in some questions and in some initiatives, the programs that we are putting in place, and you were referring to one that had to do with the implementation in different companies of initiatives that work... to put into practice the good practices that these companies are doing in the field of correlation and conciliation, and that is true. We started with a pilot project of 3 companies, and we expanded it to 30 companies, which has been shared between the different companies, so that then it is possible that the rest of the companies that have this sensitivity and want to move forward in these matters can do so, and that is what we are doing, Mrs Etxebarrieta. And next year, in this next budget, we will have additional initiatives to make further progress in these areas. The work lines and plans that we have designed, I think are obvious and that throughout the whole legislature we have been doing many initiatives and many plans, such as the Family Support Plan, such as the Equality Plan, such as the strategy of caregivers that we will shortly present, such as the strategy and operational plan of the wage gap, such as the voluntary paid surpluses to approach the 16-week parental leave, which are not only geared towards the care of minors or newborn children up to the first year of age, but also for the people and men who want to benefit from these aids, who will be discriminated against positively in this regard, and if you do not read the decree, which contains these initiatives. We are also working in the field of innovation and collaborating with the institutions, because we want to improve the... [Txistu beats incnun da] As you know, and before the end of the legislature, we will be making these new applications for parental leave, and with this new decree, as I was saying, what is intended is for parents and men to be involved in the care of dependent persons and in the tasks of care. I've mentioned it before in my... in the first intervention that, from the teleassistance service, we are working to help caregivers. We are also working on programs such as "OK at home", which serve to ensure security and extend people's stay at home, favoring their autonomy. That is why we are also helping caregivers who care for these people. Our goal is to promote a new model of governance, based on social innovation, for the design, implementation, evaluation and monitoring of long-term care policies. And let me, out of respect for other institutions with which we are collaborating, not be able to give you more details of these projects at this time. All this legislature has been working, in a participatory way, on the Nagussi agenda, to agree and approve this socio-health strategy for non-professional caregivers, and we will comply with the timetable presenting in this strategy, which, moreover, as I said, in the approved budget or in which it will be approved shortly, will be improved, with the contributions of other political groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology, Edurne García Hornembe Together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the chief of the United States and Society, concerning the rights of domestic workers." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u69	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Artolazabal, on 19 November, the group called Non-Domestic Workers visited the Commission on Labour and Justice to present the work they had done with the support of the Mundubat Foundation. It is a process of research, action and participation. A process, in the words of the collective itself, "of collective learning, which starts from concrete realities to which it intends to transform". Before we go on, it's time to make a thank you. As the process progressed, a follow-up committee was set up, and we take this opportunity to publicly thank us for the opportunity to participate, together with other social actors, in that committee. It was a great learning process for Elkarrekin Podemos. Eskerrik asko, both non-domestic workers and Mundubat. The group of non-domestic workers, through this work, proposes two lines of action. On the one hand, review and rethink how we function as people and as a society. An approach that has been central to the feminist movement's agenda for a long time: "Putting lives in the centre" was the motto, as you well know, of the last strike on March 8. And it has also been an important axis in the last feminist days here at Euskal Herria. In this line, we had the opportunity to debate in this plenary, at the beginning of this year, as my colleague Eukene Arana did, where he made an inquiry to the lehendakari and also presented, derived from it, a motion on care and more egalitarian society and put life, lives, in the center. On that occasion, my companion said: "It has been feminism and, in particular, the feminist critical economy that have taken care of the dark. There is no system and there is no fair, equal and sustainable country project, without taking into account the care in all its dimensions and the work that falls on women's backs. With political will, a deep, generous, public, open and plural debate must be promoted. And in this debate, governments, social partners, economic actors, businesses, the third sector must be committed and, of course, what needs to be reviewed must be reviewed." Therefore, on that occasion, my colleague asked the lehendakari what was to be done to move towards a more just, more equal social organization and a society in which all, with the leadership of the institutions, we are responsible for the care and care of those who need it. And from that initiative came a motion with measures to move in that direction, and a broad agreement was reached. And by echoing this demand, through the budget agreement, the Elkarrekin Zaintzen plan will be launched, depending directly on Lehendakaritza, which will promote the democratization of care, another way of organizing social care, from a transformative and co-responsible point of view between the State, the market, families and civil society itself. The final document of the non-domestic women workers also covers the context of domestic employment, the need for an analysis of the sector and care from feminism, the violence in the sector, women's resistance strategies, and current working and social security conditions. But, in addition to mapping the sector in Euskadi, they have done a job beyond diagnosis, and they propose an action plan, an integral plan that wants to make visible and recognize the multiple elements that produce and reproduce the contexts, the materialities, the abuse of power and the violence of domestic employment and care today. Various proposals in the short, medium and long term. Concrete measures in the face of specific problems, Mrs Artolazabal. Because, as you already know, domestic workers are one of the groups of workers who suffer the greatest conditions of precariousness in the workplace. A collective that in the Basque Country includes about 10,000 women workers, mostly women, whose working conditions, in addition to being precarious, have much less protection than those of the rest of the workers, despite some achievements that must be recognized that they have been obtained in the last decade, at the expense of the demands and the constant struggle of the workers in the sector. To a large extent, persons in charge of household and care are women. Women who, for different reasons – economic, family – decide to enter this job as a survival strategy, often personal and family. And it should be remembered that, in general terms, they are not people who know their rights as workers. Moreover, on many occasions, they are not even perceived as workers subject to rights. It is a job that is lived as something temporary, transitory, circumstantial, that is not usually dimensioned, assumed and valued as other jobs. In addition, it is a highly individualised sector, without significant organisational and trade-union processes or collective agreements that support women workers and promote the construction of a common identity. It should be recalled that, in many cases, women workers live in the homes where they are employed and/or spend more time there than in their own homes. In this way, the house becomes a space where it is difficult to set limits; the time and place of work and non-work are diffused. These particular situations of need and emergency are being abused, which at the same time are deepening. And the working person is considered to be a property object, which is denied the possibility, the opportunity... the development of one's own identity, opinions and criteria. For our parliamentary group, the destitution of women workers and, in particular, that of women working as domestic workers, is a priority: Firstly, because we believe that the distribution of care and jobs is essential. And secondly, because they are simply waged, hired and, as such, must have the same rights as the rest of the workers, regardless of whether or not their work generates surplus value, regardless, in the end, of whether these jobs belong to the reproductive or productive part of the system. They are ultimately workers and they work; therefore, they must have the same rights as all workers. And as you see, Commissioner, this is a complex sector, with notable violations, combining abusive working hours, very low wages, social and labour protection and high responsibilities, as well as demands in terms of duties that are not always compensated by the recognition of labour rights for these workers. We understand, as we have already stated on many occasions in this House, that the invisibility and devaluation of domestic and care work responds to a socio-labor model that does not conform to what we defend from Elkarrekin Podemos. The women's dedication to reproduction work is not the result of biological innateness, but the result of the social construction of gender differences, which makes women into female subjects primarily oriented towards reproduction work and men into male subjects primarily focused on production work. Such a process of socialization is embedded in differentiated stereotypes and life possibilities of both genders, positioning women in a situation of subordination to men, since in this differential socialization of gender it is achieved that these differences become inequalities and that, in addition, these inequalities remain invisible. Reproductive work deserves to be valued and quantified. Reproductive work must be undertaken by society as a whole, and not only exclusively by the majority of women. And, given this situation, Mrs Artolazabal, we want to know what concrete measures are going to be taken from your department to improve the situation of domestic workers in the field of employment and social policies, because, Mrs Artolazabal, there is much room for improvement. And we can stop at the consequences of not carrying out these measures, at the steps that are not taken. Domestic workers who break down cleaning stairs, taking care of our daughters and children, ultimately take care of the care of many of the families in this country and are having a hard time. It's a painful job because you play health. And what do they have in return? Often ill-treatment, low wages and an absolutely uncertain future. And what do you find from night to morning? They can often even become pregnant or sick because they are fired; they have no right to unemployment, and Lanbide cuts off their GIR. And what's your day to day? For the word of the employer always prevails over their voices. And because they are unable to do so, they often do not have access to the Labour Inspectorate to report violations of the rights to which they are subjected. And that's a problem... A problem that we cannot solve at 100% from Euskadi with our skills and with our reality. But it is a problem that we have an obligation to address, to urge that it be resolved. A problem that can also be addressed by promoting certain policies from your department, Mrs Artolazabal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u71	Thanks again, ma'am. Mrs García, in my previous reply I have tried to highlight the work of care. I think I've made myself very clear. Non-professional caregivers and professional caregivers. And you ask me now about the domestic workers, to improve the situation of a collective, which for us is also worrying in the conditions in which, well, they sometimes have to perform their work, right? I also recognize that it is a very feminized and mostly formed by migrant women, who must also be put on the table. And, above all, that he is oriented his work to the care of the people we love the most. Let me have a little digression on the language: Digression. Let's talk about domestic workers, and many times internal, as you well say. And see, when we use the names of men or when we use men who... to compare, or when we say that men do the same work, we no longer use the term "domestic employees", but we use a term that is, I don't know, "personal assistants". Looks like it's better, doesn't it? Homeworkers and personal assistants, when in reality their work is the same. I do want to take this opportunity to highlight the contribution that these people make to our society. I share with you that all workers have to have the same rights. And the workers... Homeworkers allow many women and many men to reconcile and carry on our life projects. And we don't have to make them invisible. Of course not. In the hands of domestic workers, we leave every day the people we love the most, our children, children, our elderly and dependents. And living in our nearest environment is always key to the well-being of all people. To remain in our homes is only possible thanks to the work, on many occasions, of these workers. Oxfam Intermón and the University Institute of Gender Studies of Carlos III University conducted a study on this group. This report points out that ratification of International Labour Organization Convention 189 would bring about significant policy changes. And this ratification, as you well know and have acknowledged, is not the responsibility of the Basque Government. We will have to push where we are so that these issues will have to be resolved. But I believe that the next government at state level will have a clear objective of realising the improvements that this group of women workers deserves, which is sometimes in a precarious situation, and that the laws that are appropriate, the decrees that are desirable or the initiatives that are convenient to carry out in order to improve their situation need to be amended. Facilitating the contribution of domestic employment, as you well know, would help to move towards the total formalisation of a sector that maintains steady growth in terms of employment. True, women who work at home are more and more. However, this report notes that the number of female domestic workers registered with Social Security is falling more and more. Totally, I mean, we're working, but we're not insured. And we're either favoring or increasing the submerged economy, aren't we? And that is a problem, a problem that we have to tackle, because it has a number of very important connotations for them and for the economy as well. It is the social and individual responsibility of every citizen of this country, of us and of us, to put an end to this submerged economy. And that's where I think the institutions have an obligation: we have to follow up, we have to do those inspections... But also the citizens we hire to these people we have to hire them with the conditions based on their rights, with a number of working conditions in relation to their wages, in relation to their permits, that are worthy and that are what they really deserve. And there, we, we have a lot to do and say. In Euskadi, about 12,000 foreign persons are discharged from the social security home service system. And that is also an important part of the people who are dedicated to care: the foreign women who are currently doing such work in Euskadi. That, if they were not, we would have a very serious problem in relation to the attention we have to pay and the attention our dearest people have to have. And according to the organisations representing them, almost 90% – as you say – they work as interns, and their main occupation is the care of these people, mostly elderly and dependent. That is what you have moved to that meeting, to that working group that was held. Etxebarrieta andreari were a bezala diodean, etorkizunari begira dugun errornka nagusia da nola egingo diegun aurre bizitzari eusteko beharrezkoak diren zintza-lanei, ikuspegi ekititabo justu éta berdintasunezko batatik. Emakume migratzaile horietako askok lan-baldintza konplikatuak jasaten dituzte, lan-eskubiderik gabe edo gehiegikeriaz jokatzen due langile horiei eskatutako zereginitan. In a European Union study that we mentioned in the previous interpellation to Mrs Etxebarrieta, it is recommended that States pay particular attention to the role and situation of migrant domestic workers, especially in their condition, qualifications and working conditions. Already in appeals to Councilwoman San José, she has transferred to them the progress that the Department of Labour and Justice is making in this area. And I'm going to focus on the skills that, like the Department of Employment, Social Policy, we have. As far as social policies are concerned, these women workers can already benefit from the aid, benefits or surpluses provided for in the conciliation decree in force since this November. Previously, that was not possible; women working in the home, women working in the home, were not able to benefit from these aids. Domestic workers, therefore, can benefit from the reductions in working hours or from the surpluses incorporated as improvements to the new decree, which is what we are responsible for and have regulated. The same Decree also states that, in the form of assistance for conciliation for the recruitment of staff, the recruitment of persons discharged under the special scheme for female domestic workers integrated into the general social security scheme will be subsidized. That is, if the woman – home worker – takes a leave of absence or has... welcomes some kind of help... sorry, as I would say, enjoys that right, we will do what we will do is subsidize the hiring that the employer who has hired her has to do for her. The objective, therefore, is clear: to promote recruitment and avoid the submerged economy. These are two important challenges, which we believe with this decree we will at least avoid. And if possible, eliminate. In recent years, we have also been regulating the employment of dependent workers. Because, as you well know, the Unit Law requires that they have a degree so that those who apply to the institutions can receive such support; in this case, it is usually the majority of outlaws. A process of provisional authorization was opened, which is up to 31 December 2022, so that these persons who are engaged in such care and who do not have such training can prove it. And our forecast is that, by that date, 100% of professionals in care will have that job accreditation. And we are doing this in collaboration with Lanbide, establishing various training programmes. In the last count, more than 4,700 exceptional and more than 3,600 temporary allowances had already been granted to those working in care. All this makes a total of more than 10,200 qualifications. As you know, from Madrid, it took time to develop this issue; we managed to extend that deadline for accreditations. And we hope that, by the year 2022, all those who are dedicated to this care will have sufficient training and be accredited to that training. The great challenge, therefore, is to ensure that these women have this qualification process by 31 December 2022. And that's why we're doing these training programs. Since 2018, our department has also collaborated with the Basque Institute of Knowledge of Vocational Training. We have prepared and planned calls for the evaluation and accreditation of competencies procedure, so that we can reach 2022. Women who perform these contract care tasks in domestic work have also been provided with the option of accessing the enabling processes, because you already know that sometimes these complex hours prevented them from accessing the training courses. Well, we're taking care of those needs so that they can continue to be trained, so that they can prove that training we demand from them. These workers should also have experience in the professional category of personal assistant or home help assistant. Because you know that many of these women who are working do not have a way of accrediting that work; but, through the form of accreditation through contract, it is possible that the modules they have to do are inferior to the training they would have to carry on if they did not have it. But, as you said, we have a budgetary agreement, and we will continue to make progress next year in this framework.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Artolazabal, you know that, beyond the questions whose competence is state, in which sense our group already works in the Congress of Deputies, as has been done previously by the parties that make up the coalition in previous legislatures, and that we share that it is obvious – you have spoken of the conciliation decree and the aid in the recruitment that it implies –, aside, there is also a responsibility, and from your department – and, more specifically, from Lanbide – there is a lot of work that can still be done and that is not yet done. You have to acknowledge that, in the absence of collective support, such as trade unions or agreements, the non-management of Lanbide as an office for the brokering and placement of the sector is another important lack of the institutions, which has harmful consequences for the workers, leaving them exposed to the fraudulent and extractive activity of the private agencies of placement. And parallel to this, and in contrast, Lanbide does show that it is quite efficient in the increase of requirements, in the penalization and constant harassment of lives, labor and economic movements, when it manages, controls... other resources. This is all evidence that's about... that public institutions still have gender biases. Furthermore, we cannot fail to point out that, at the time of approaching the offices, either in Lanbide or in Social Security, not all the necessary information and advice has been received. Sometimes, the information is provided incompletely and other times, even, you will have to recognize me, with errors of interpretation. Therefore, as I say to you, Mrs Artolazabal, there are concrete measures which can be addressed and promoted, and which go beyond the campaigns of visibility and awareness, aimed at society as a whole and which go beyond, which is on what I base my inquiry, the response that you have given in the previous inquiry, and the debate that we can have in a general framework on the care system in Euskadi. I was talking to him about concrete measures. And I am talking to you, for example, about information campaigns on labour rights and obligations, aimed at both entrepreneurs and workers, as well as at domestic and care workers. He was also talking about training, training to be given on current legislation and the legal framework, and more up-to-date, for officials and those with public attention within the public administration. He was also told that an information guide on labour rights and obligations, aimed at both the working and the entrepreneurial parties, should be distributed to prevent violations and violations of existing rights and duties with information. And I was also talking to him about ensuring compliance with the regulations themselves. And in what way? With actions of follow-up, control and sanction, controlling, sanctioning and ensuring that..., when there is a breach or violation of duties and rights within the framework of this labor relationship, both on the basis of a prior complaint of part as well as ex officio. And to check, for example, the conditions of accommodation and maintenance, the fulfilment of hours and tasks guided by the job interview, the fulfilment of the stipulated rest periods, the consistency between the length of the day and the wage received, or the non-transfer of the full costs or in excess of the legally established amount to the working party, or the compliance itself with the right to pay on payroll, in addition to preventing with contracts that do not reflect the actual working conditions. It is very important, Mrs Artolazabal, to require Lanbide to check and register the written contracts, to check the terms of the contract and to adjust them to the conditions proposed. It would have to be, for our parliamentary group, a requirement to proceed to discharge in Social Security. Once the contracts were presented, Lanbide would have to quote the worker and give her an interview to see if what is written is fulfilled. In addition, discharges and discharges should be monitored and verified with the working party when an employment relationship is completed. In short, unify criteria of advice and management of information, documentation, designing, implementing... a working protocol in the public administration. We, Mrs Artolazabal, want and will continue to work for this to happen without delay. We have asked you for concrete measures; we are responding to you with concrete measures, and we think it is great that you give us a diversion and a speech on the general care policy, but I ask you, please, to talk to me about concrete measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u75	Thank you, Mrs. García. I believe that you and I agree that the domestic workers sector is a clearly feminized sector, and you tell me to tell you concrete measures. I believe that I have told you concrete measures in relation to the conciliation decree, in which women who are employed domestic workers, for the first time, have the opportunity to have those rights in order to be able to carry out those care which, at this time, could not be, provided that someone is hired in their place who is discharged from social security. I think that, I don't know if you're confused when it comes to asking me, but I, of all you've commented on, and it's not to slip the bundle, I think that when you talk about labor rights and obligations, that's not my department's jurisdiction. My department is dedicated to the field of employment and social policies. When he also talks about control and punishment, which, of course, I believe is bound to go ahead, it is also up to the Department of Labour, which is the one who is dedicated and has the inspectors and who is also doing a magnificent job, carrying out those inspections, which are putting on the table situations of vulnerability of workers' rights. And I sincerely believe that, sharing her concern, Councilwoman San José has many more tools in this area than I do, in order to carry out both the control and the follow-up of these contracts, rights and obligations. We do share and, of course, believe that it is our duty to carry out this training and awareness-raising, to highlight the work that these women are doing, to ensure that men are also involved in care and, to that end, the strategy and operational plan to reduce the wage gap collects and drives numerous initiatives, which can be key to the organisation of the Basque society of the future. We must continue to bet, as I said in my previous speech, on the qualification and dignity of the conditions these women have. Part of that goes through training, which is essential to be able to empower them, to have that training that can enable them to obtain better working conditions. And for that, let's keep working on that line. Work lines that enable these women to improve their employment situation. And we are also promoting pilot initiatives by the hand of the Nazareth Centre and the Matía Foundation in this field, which will allow them to develop a curriculum in the training specialty of reference professionals within the framework of people-centred attention, which we hope will favor them in order to further advance their work itinerary. When you tell me about Lanbide's brokerage, Lanbide what it's going to do, if people approach Lanbide to be able to ask women to go to work with them, it's to establish a number of people who meet the requirements that the employer wants to put in. But it's just that that profile of people, that employer, doesn't approach Lanbide. Generally, female domestic workers are not hired because someone goes to Lanbide to apply for that profile, but because in mouth-to-mouth, when it comes to establishing those contracts, people use that method. Lanbide doesn't usually come any closer to us. Yes, the person approaching Lanbide, of course, will have the advice, guidance and training and information that we can provide, so that she can make the selection of the person she wants to be at home. I do not share with you and, of course, it is by no means true that there is constant harassment in Lanbide of people working and approaching Lanbide. That's not true. That, rather, is false. From Lanbide what is done is a professional work, based on the existing legislation and legality, with the aim of complying with it, providing the tools that we have in order for anyone, regardless of their condition, to have those elements that allow him to continue to advance. I've heard him, we've heard him in a way... Well, with a lot of interest, about what we have to continue to do. And what I'm telling you is that we're going to continue working, working interdepartmentally and also with you, so that we can improve the conditions these women have. But I do want to acknowledge the social work they do, that they carry out these functions and tasks, give them the importance they deserve, that they be recruited and that they be discharged from social security, which is what needs to be done. And for that, we individually have a very important job.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Lejarz, the member of the United States of the United States, made to the chief physician of Eplegus and Societys, is to guarantee incomes for the new amount of rent." Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u77	Thank you, Mrs. President. Counselor, since announcing the agreement on RGI with the Podemos group, the immediate reaction of the People's Party has been provoked. It was Mr Damborenea who stated that, in this budgetary agreement with regard to the GIR, there was nothing to favour people living on the street, all the measures benefit those living from the budget of the Basque Government, especially those of the GIR. To what I added, then, that it will be more profitable to charge the GIR than to go to work – a parenthesis in the reasoning of this question, because I will clarify, once again, that this group does not share this kind of hate speech to the poor or that they intend to install us in a war of the penultimates against the latter; close parenthesis – and I follow the reasoning this question. Above this erotic dialectic used by Mr Damborenea, the hyperventilated reaction of the People's Party focused on three elements: the amount agreed, the distance between that amount and the SMI, and the third, the budget allocated to the GIR. Well, those criticisms of the People's Party seem incomprehensible to us and to us. We don't understand her. And why don't we understand them? Well, look, this group, before it forges an opinion, analyzes. At the time he analyzed the budgetary agreements reached with the People's Party in 2017 and 2018; and, on this occasion, he also analyzed the agreement reached with the Podemos group. And what can we conclude from the comparison between the two agreements? Well, in relation to the amounts – and let us remember, once again, that the amount of GIR is established by law and that the additional provisions of the different budgetary pacts since 2013 have reduced that amount – because in the comparison [Orri bat erakutsi du] Pensioners don't get much better off [Orri bat erakutsi du] The People's Party was also concerned about the distance between RGI and SMI. Well, let's see what happens to that distance [Orri bat erakutsi du] The People's Party was also concerned about the budget earmarked for GIR. Well, in the budgetary agreement reached with the People's Party [Orri bat erakutsi du]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u78	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Your word is yours. Chiefs of Empeduary and Polylyn Society I understand that you are referring to statements that put a 4% increase in the collection of GIR as the door to devote more hours to sleep. I believe that these words were wrong, that I do not share that they are poured over all the people who benefit from our system of protection, those bubbles. But what you have not said is true either, because the deal with Elkarrekin We can do what we are going to do is to improve the amount that people who receive GIR in 2020, and that is higher than in 2019. And in addition, last year you had the opportunity to agree with us higher increments and, in the end, for whatever reasons, it was not concluded. We were talking up to 7%, and you didn't want to reach that agreement. Therefore, you will also have to be responsible for what you say. Not only do we ask others a number of questions. I don't share, as I tell you, those bubbles are said. And I do not agree to launch that widespread suspicion of taking advantage of the system and not wanting to work. Most income-guarantee persons, except pensioners, are working and therefore their greatest desire is to enter the labour market. And they know that, through employment, they can access these incomes, but also integration into society. The evolution of the number of persons benefiting from GIR does not depend on the largest amount or increase in annual increases; since 2015, the number of persons holding GIR has been reduced by 13,000. 13,205 people, in particular, have stopped collecting GIR. And that is because the economy is giving opportunities, even to people in a more vulnerable situation. 6,000 files less over the course of this year. The VAC has been a pioneer in the implementation of bonus mechanisms, as you well know, to encourage access to employment for these perceptors. As a result of these employment incentives, the employed persons receiving these benefits have been able to leave the situation. And if the budget at this time, of the GIR in the year 2020 has a lower amount is because people at this time are working and it is not necessary to provide more budget that item. Because moreover, as you well know, it is an expandable game because it is a subjective right. And in the amendment of the law that regulates these measures have been incorporated. I sincerely ask myself a question about statements made by Mr Damborenea; I do not share them, I reject them, and that is what I want to transfer to him. I believe that the agreement we have reached with the Podemos Group will benefit a very important part of society, which is in a situation of greater vulnerability, and I believe that it is in what we need to continue to make progress, in order to further improve the living conditions of the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours. Rodriguez lejarza I will provide you with the answer to the question. Tell me whether it is true or not that the agreement with the People's Party on budgetary matters allocated EUR 32 million more to income guarantee income than the one that is going to allocate the budgetary agreement with Podemos. Secondly, tell me whether it is true or not that the distance between the RGI and the SMI was, in the agreement with the People's Party, 25%, and in the agreement with Podemos, 34%.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u80	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Your word is yours. Chiefs of Empeduary and Polylyn Society And this is, in the end, what we can be perceiving, in relation to a series of comments that are being moved by different political forces. Frankly, I think that the GIR is doing a great job; honestly, I think that the budget agreement is going to benefit many people and I think that they will be better protected by the agreement we have reached.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u81	Eskerrik asko. Anton, before I give you the floor. These have been literal statements made by you. No more. No, no, No, no, no, no, Horrela izan da. No, no, No, no, That you don't have... They've been literals made by you at a press conference. Point. It doesn't even affect your behavior... Nothing at all. No, no, no, no, Hey, Estarrona, you also have the word. (Laughter) Please, we need to finish this. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies, members of Carmelo Barrio Barrojia Popula, made to the head of the Medical Department, about the projects of public health and environment." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours. bario barroja Okay, Mrs. Murga. This is a good week to talk about what you and I are going to talk about in this inquiry, a week to ask you about issues that have essentially to do with health, but those issues that have to do with climate-related health, related to the environment. Issues, of course, which are closely related and which, logically, need to be further worked on. There's a lot of alarm lights. Lots of complicated situations. There is a prospect of new plans, of new actions; there are also many dissatisfactions, and we can be seeing it these days in relation to some of the key issues and positions of the participating states, of the presidents, in what is being talked about; but, well, I want to focus on what has to be a policy of strategy, also of health and environment at this time of alert on climate change and the preservation of the environment, and also those intimate connections with health policies, of public health. And we understand that it is necessary here to demand, once again, and to work and, at least, to reflect together on the different levels of government with competences in both strategic actions, which have to be coordinated and cross-cutting: health of course, climate, environment, etc. in relation to many other issues in addition to those that concern them. Well, public health and environmental policies, combined with other types of public policies – and good, public and private – (industrial, energy, food, agricultural-farming, etc.), deserve a joint reflection and effort – and de facto We've seen, it's been announced and it's been seen in the press these days about... –the rather specialized press these days – the announcement that in the coming months the ministry will present what has called a National Health and Environment Plan; the Ministry of Health, that is, it is not the Ministry of the Environment, and it seems that the Ministry of Health leads and channels it. It is clear that it is something important and that we need to be interested, right?, and that we want to do so. It is also clear, and it must be recognized, that there have been actions, right?, that the Basque Government also, that is, in its public health plans or in previous plans, I have to recognize that the plan that... by Mrs Larrañaga, Counsellor at the time of Environment, Mr Inclán, Health Adviser, also presented Health and Environment 2007 But we must also describe new phenomena, issues that are affecting the day-to-day nature of health policies, linked to the environment and also linked to issues such as the climate, logically included in this field, in this sector... There is a description of these environmental factors that influence public health, human health; their modification or alteration... of course, the alteration and modification of these environmental factors unequivocally implies an alteration and modification of human health factors. That's clear. And in that sense and in that plan that seems to be coming to light, in a more intense way or more... we are being told about pollution, of course, and also in relation to commitments to be addressed, commitments by the European Union, also commitments that have been made within the framework of the WHO and suggestions and recommendations of the World Health Organization in relation to... Of course, what has already been discussed, too, but we must continue to talk, as a fundamental element, about air quality, water quality... It is clear that the chemicals that surround us everywhere, the so-called endocrine disruptors, those pollutants that are more and more – that is appreciated and said by the specialized agencies –; biomonitoring, a very important tool in public health; environmental radioactivity, also key and affecting us; electromagnetic fields; ionizing radiation; ultraviolet radiation; noise; vectors that transmit diseases, which are now modified, vary... much more, they move much more than in other times; extreme temperatures... Well, there are a number of issues that have to do with this link between the quality of our climate, the environmental quality, with health, with health in the broad sense, with human health, in any case in particular. As she said before, and that is why we are also interested in her opinion, the minister in the framework of COP25, as she announced, presented, said... that, in the coming months, there would be a plan to reduce certain impacts of climate change on health, and we are interested in knowing how this also links the actions of the Basque Government. It is quite clear that we are not an island here on this issue; we have to act together. And, in addition, the Minister of Health herself recalled that this approach that advocates to include health in all those policies that currently have to do with those of environment and climate change that have been... So, the plan announced by the Minister of Health is... with other ministries, but it also talked about regional governments, apart from the experts, the governments of the autonomous communities as also involved in the elaboration of that plan, which will describe those environmental factors that influence human health and that will establish those intervention objectives in relation to the impact on health of all that we have commented before: air quality, habitat, water, all those issues that have to do with what affects us. Also to conclude this first intervention, we have to see as an element that also draws attention to the last study, which the EEA, the European Environment Agency, has carried out, right? I have seen that it is published on December 4, 2019, and what it does is a study for 2020 on the situation of the environment in Europe 2020. It is a striking thing, because this European Environment Agency has said that the state of the environment has worsened and the prospects are different. In any case, it does not seem to be a..., but the issue is that the impact of climate change and air and noise pollution on the environment – and, above all, on human health – is still worrying. He says clearly, that EEA report: the state of the environment has worsened, the prospects are varied, and these impacts are decisively affecting, in a general sense, human health and human food, that is, they are fundamental elements. And, in that sense, with the vision set in the short term but also in the future – we have to be strategic – the department will have to tell us something about what its own initiatives are, about these plans, about human health and climate change and the environment and, also, about its participation in the plan announced by the minister, which in the coming years will see the light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u82	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u83	Andrea president. Legebiltzarkideok. Yellow neighborhood. I share with you, Mr Barrio, the observation of the interdepartmental and interinstitutional nature of health policies. And we agree on the need to reflect, as well as to share, the effects that on what we affect on the planet will cause and cause already in our health. The health of individuals and populations depends on various factors, including biological factors, lifestyles, the physical, economic and social environment, the position of people on the social scale and access to basic resources and services, such as housing, education and health care. Therefore, interventions from outside the health field also play a decisive role in community health and actions at these levels are more effective in achieving improvements in the health of the population. In fact, that is why this Government is implementing in all its actions the health approach in all policies, which is, as you know, the cornerstone of our 2013-2020 Health Plan. It's our health policy, taking health into all its policies. That is precisely why I would like to point out that it would be more accurate to talk, not so much about policies to be developed, as you put it in your question, although you have acknowledged what we have been doing and how we are progressing, but about the policies that we are already developing for years in Euskadi, with the impetus of the Basque Government and the involvement of the rest of the country's institutions, and in which, of course, we will continue to deepen in the future as well. As I say, all this is within the context of the Health Plan, which connects with other reference frameworks; among them, the IV Environment Framework 2020, which includes the project called Healthy Territory, where the Department of Health, together with the Environment Department, the Agency URA and Ihobe, participates, and in which actions are carried out related to territorial planning, air, water or environmental determinants of health. Also the Basque Environment Strategy for Sustainable Development 2002-2020. I'm tying up like aztertuta. Let's look at the following sections: With regard to air quality and health, the current situation is almost complete compliance with air quality levels. The pollution rates are recorded daily by the Euskadi Air Quality Network and are adapted to the parameters defined by the European Environment Agency. Nevertheless, work is, of course, being done with the rest of the departments and institutions involved to go beyond legislation and reduce the impact of air pollution on the health of the population. As you know, air quality maps are published periodically by municipality. And we also have annual air quality reports in Euskadi. With regard to water and health, the Department of Health's public water monitoring and control programme in Euskadi is a health surveillance exercise to ensure control of health risks arising from changes in drinking water. As a review of the work carried out over the past 30 years, we can say that an important improvement in the quality of distributed water has been achieved, as well as an improvement in the level of organisation of monitoring of this drinking water. We have a flexible and transparent information system, EKUIS, through which Basque citizens can learn about the quality of water and the results of analyses carried out in all Euskadi's supply systems, in line with the spirit of Directive 2003/4/EC, the European Parliament and the Council, on public access to environmental information. Of course, the quality of water is not exempt from new health threats, as the summit this week has highlighted, so that new contaminants, not only chemicals, but, as it has also mentioned, and the presence of new species, including bacteria, parasites and others, require present and future health care. This is a challenge in which it is increasingly necessary to strengthen the lines of collaboration and coordination of all actors involved in the supply and management of the water cycle, because in this it is important that all basin agencies, the Department of Health, local entities, companies, monitoring and monitoring units and laboratories also participate. In this regard, last year a partnership agreement was signed between the Department of Health and the Basque Water Agency URA, on the protection of the quality of public drinking water. Under this agreement, action is being taken to ensure that water reaches the tap of consumers with the best possible quality. And this acting from the origin, that is, from the captures of water for this purpose. The Action Plan for the Control of Legionellosis has also been in operation for years, with the aim of preventing outbreaks and reducing the incidence of cases of this disease in Euskadi. Control and monitoring of irrigation facilities is carried out, for which Osalan has the collaboration, and with respect to the field of work and the three capitals...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u84	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u85	...is municipal. The actions resulting from this plan have led to major structural reforms in the facilities and the establishment of self-control programmes, which in turn have led to increased security. It would also highlight activities in bathing areas. Euskadi carries out a monitoring of the hygienic-sanitary conditions as regards both the quality of the water and the environment surrounding them. In 2019, water quality was rated as excellent in 80% of bathing areas, as good in 18 and acceptable in 2%. There was no qualification as insufficient. As for soil and health, let us remember that Law 4/2015 of 25 June, for prevention and correction, aims to protect the soil of Euskadi, preventing the alteration of its chemical characteristics derived from human action. On chemicals control, Euskadi participates in the State Chemical Inspection and Control Network and in European monitoring and control projects. We have a remarkable research activity in the field of health. To cite some examples, I would highlight our participation in European projects to study the effects of air pollution on health. Also the ILMA study, which aims to analyze the effects of environmental pollutants in the early stages of life. Climate change is a major challenge; it must be addressed. And the Basque Government is one of the first to be linked to the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. Euskadi has joined the LIFE Urban Klima project in 2019, an ambitious project to adapt to global warming that has been at the Madrid COP25 summit, and in which, as you will know, several departments of the Basque Government are involved, including the Health Department, three deputies, seven municipalities, five technology centres and the Naturklima Foundation. Within the framework of the Oncological Plan, we also work to reduce diagnostic and therapeutic radiation, and the dosimetric history improve it, to avoid the effects of ionizing radiation on health. And...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u86	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u87	... on the other hand, the monitoring of ultraviolet radiation and the prevention of dermal cancer have also been incorporated. I could extend more; but, given that time is limited, I would just like to point out, to conclude in this first intervention, that I thank you for your appreciation of our actions and that it seems to us very good that the Ministry of Health has in mind now to present a National Health and Environment Plan. As always, we will be willing to cooperate; but, as I have tried to explain in my speech, Euskadi has already been acting for years and in a coordinated way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u89	Gracias, president. Yes, well, thank you, Mrs. Murga, for your explanations. Indeed, since we already knew..., I mean, the sense of initiative and of interpellation was a bit of a vision of the future, right?, where to walk. And efforts have been made, of course, but we want to talk about those factors that continue to affect and that continue to overlap with health every day, through issues that are strictly outside of health issues, with those factors that have to do with... You have made a good summary of other types of factors, those of a social nature, of a biological nature, of an experiential nature, right?, of another series of issues that we have seen that some of them, that is, have... that some of those issues that may have adverse health characteristics have been getting worse in some..., and some of those factors have gotten worse, haven't they? That's what... That is why I was taking out the interesting study that the European Environment Agency has just done in relation to the state of the environment, which has worsened, has it not? The prospects are varied. And that is why the key to our interpellation is the drive for coordinated and joint actions. Clearly, we are not an island; the local is very important. And, indeed, you have told us about that coordination that exists between your Government, other departments and other Basque institutions, but we consider it very important to coordinate action in such important areas as the... Spain, isn't it?, its government, the whole state, as with the European Union. And that is why I was referring to those keys that the European Environment Agency's report did, right?, in relation to health and food, on these issues which have to do with the worsening of the environment. That is a fundamental question, that area in Spain as a whole, that European area... I believe that this is one of the interesting references that we can draw today from the summit that, like others that have been held, and that has been held in Madrid, in relation to the needs of uniting efforts, the needs of uniting efforts. It seems, moreover, that the whole of the administrations, as we are told every day... there are permanent appeals to the political class, to politicians, to make decisions, to move forward, to the future... is in the hands of politics, governments. It seems that the whole of the administrations have to take a step further, a step further, even recognizing that things have been done, in some places better than in others, just as here better than elsewhere, but we have to take a step further in joint action, recognizing the efforts as well. And these strategies also transcend local efforts. That's what I'm trying to say: you have to join forces. Here, as in so many things, the right to decide belongs to a broad community: Europe, Spain... is a global right of the world. I mean, in that sense, we have to frame the keys to action. Therefore, the plan announced by the Ministry of Health, leading a health and environment plan, interests us, because the ministry has said that it has had regional governments. And we would like to know, Madam Counsellor, to what extent you are participating, because we find it interesting... the Ministry of Health is socialist. But, I want to say that, if the Minister of Health has said that she has regional governments for the implementation of that plan, that, I say again is a supposedly ambitious plan and that she will respond to those new challenges that you and I have talked about, factors that affect the environment and, in passing, health... I mean, how are you going to participate, how are you participating, and how are these actions coordinated? In short, the conclusion: coordinated action. It is the fundamental element for fighting all: from the smallest sphere, which is the citizen, to the broadest, which is the governments at all levels; how it is being done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u90	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u91	Barrio jauna, as I have already pointed out, the Basque Government has been involved for years in coordinated strategies that favour improvements in health outcomes and in the care of the environment and, of course, of food. And for this reason, the doors of this department have been, are and will continue to be open to contributions, innovation, joint work and any joint action in which we can collaborate, provided that this, as in this case, implies a common good for the citizens of Euskadi. We have always collaborated with the plans, involving the people of the department and acting together in everything we are asked to do. In fact, this demonstration of our ability to work together is that all our policies are known, published, as can be our "Health in All Policies" and our Health Plan. I sincerely believe that the action of the Basque Government is consistent with the consideration that the health of all people is directly influenced by the environment, in which there are no barriers, as you have mentioned. That is, how we live, breathe, work, eat, move or enjoy leisure is conditioning our life and health, and the decisions we make and collaboration among all can make these determinants change and improve our living conditions. Because I'm sure you and I agree that some of our biggest health challenges – including environmental risks and climate change – are very complex and are often interlinked precisely by the health effects of these multiple determinants. Of course, in Euskadi we have been betting for years on a cross-sectoral approach to public policies and on coordination at all times with the rest of the State, for what we are called and for the benefit of the people of Euskadi; what is always taken into account, systematically, in any action and collaboration are the effects on the population and the health impact on decisions in the areas in which they are to be made. And we always promote synergies between all sectors, because we have long understood that this is the only way forward for Basque society. We have extended the view of health to all parts for a long time, and we intend to go on: by improving what has to be improved, increasing the neighborhood management and co-ordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. fourteen points in theme list: "Interpology, Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, with regard to the irregularities of the economic management of the Arababa EI." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u93	Good morning again, Mrs. Murga. Well, you already know that the LAB union has put a complaint into the prosecutor's office because of the irregularities which they found in the economic management of the integrated sanitary organization of the U.A.A.A. in order to be more precise, because of what happened in Santiago's economic management, in the kitchen... Well, he's been charged with potential economic corruption for finding in accounting deficiencies. Call me whatever you want. This has not been an improvisation from one day to another, but for three years, every month, every month, to continue, to collect, to collect the data, and the result has been. The objective data, the exact result. And this was also introduced to the director of the Holy Organization of Araba. The danger, the waste, the waste of public money, we don't know where. What exactly happened in Santiago's hospital? Well, there's a company that's hired, okay? To the stock for the red-and-white and the Santiago destructive, for $3 million euros. A company is hiring the fugible material to supply to Santiago and the Red Beetle. The attachment, A5 apps say what to provide for Jacka, and B7 says what to do with Santiago. Loud and clear. What's going on? Although there's a contract in 3 million euros, Santiago's kitchen turning back to the plude, as if it wasn't a contractation, his demands, for that material, were demanded of the public stores. So the wrong use of public money, double expense. It's obvious in numbers that Santiago spends more than Marquet. Does he have a logic? No. I mean, in other words, with the same concept, with the same plus, Santiago spends 200,000 dollars, Chago. Zero. Zero! I mean, it's hiring a company that's got to be asked for material from bad to Santiago. But Santiago doesn't do that. So, what does he do? Well, what I said earlier. Instead of following the Plegua, instead of soliciting the company, he asks for the public warehouse. And the red-haired, following the plain, as it is said in the plain, does the demands. Does that make sense? Does it make any sense? No, it doesn't make any sense. Something's weird, isn't it? So, in Santiago's kitchen, what's going on? Is the management of economic management checked out on the other side? He didn't do what he had to do? He's in the middle and he's got a company deal on account of the expense he doesn't do? Or what's going on? All we know is that public money has been spent and no one has been noticed, or that the directors of the Holy Father's Baraba have looked on the other side. So something strange happened here and it's happening. Not in a year. Years. For years! The matter is now in the prosecutor's office, but what we want to know is that the member of Hosa has done nothing, and what we want to know from now on is whether the medical department or the Hoas are going to do something, that they're going to investigate or solve irregularities-that's what we want to know, Mrs. Murga. Are the Osarides and the Medical Department doing an audition for the past few years? Are members of the health department available to clear and determine the responsibility?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours. Prime Medical Departments I will begin by making a brief review of the context of the service providing what is necessary to prepare the diets of patients admitted to the Arab OSI, which, I would like to recall, includes the hospital of Txagorritxu and the hospital of Santiago, both at the Arab OSI since 2016. This provision is made through a single supplier contract, which includes food, raw materials and consumables necessary to provide the diets of the Arab OSI, prepared in two kitchens that are located in each of these hospitals. In addition, in charge of this tender, the diets of the psychiatric hospital of Araba are prepared in the kitchens of the hospital of Santiago. The same contract also incorporates the operation of the cafeteria-dining facilities, also in two locations. We are talking about approximately 265,000 diet services, which include breakfasts, meals, snacks and annual dinners... This figure is 125,000 food services in Txagorritxu and approximately 140,000 in Santiago, of which 70,000 correspond to the psychiatric hospital in Araba. The fact that the patients of the three hospitals have different characteristics undoubtedly influences the management of the file. In fact, the costs in the raw material of HUA Santiago are higher, because the patients attending there require another type of food. For example, in HUA Santiago and in the psychiatric hospital a greater number of therapeutic diets are offered, aimed at chronic patients with prolonged stays without acute illness. In particular, 75% of diets are therapeutic in these centres, compared to around 30% of this type of diet in Txagorritxu, which means that the raw material needed is more expensive than if it were basic diets. The psychiatric hospital in Araba has gone from being a half-stay hospital to a monographic rehabilitation hospital. This has meant that the patients are younger and that, due to their specific typology, it has been necessary to adapt the quantity and variation in the seasoning, with the consequent increase that it has entailed. This request was endorsed by the head of Internal Medicine of the Araba psychiatric hospital and supervised by dietitians. Consequently, the fact that HUA Santiago is responsible for the diets of the Araba psychiatric hospital also influences these more expensive figures and the type of long-stay patients they serve. Therefore, the type of patients that care for each hospital does influence. But, likewise, other aspects, such as having different kitchen managers, the management criteria of the warehouses, etc., which make it difficult to compare accounting aspects of both centres, even if they belong to the same OSI and are managed by the same contract. I would like to point out, therefore, that this single hospitality provider dossier is certainly a dossier with many particularities. Thus, until 2012, the hospital of Txagorritxu processed the purchase of food and the management of the cafeteria through a single supplier file, while the Santiago hospital carried out its own purchasing management through different files. The past legislature, we bet for a transformation of the care model but also of management, moving towards integral models, creating OSI, and in these OSI, from the economic point of view, is committed to unifying competitions and contracts; thus, in the year 2016 the Arab OSI is created, with specific peculiarities, since it manages two hospitals. In this context, in 2016, a single provider of hospitality for the Arab OSI, which includes the procurement of all raw materials, consumables and cafeteria management, is the only contract to manage these two sites with operating cultures, of both kitchens, totally different; that is, this single contract includes, as you mentioned, all the foods to prepare all the diets, the fungibles necessary for both kitchens, but also for three hospitals, and with certain references, but not, for example, their replacement; it also includes the cafeterias. Also, in 2016, we begin to unify the dietary service, seeking the unification of processes and procedures in both centers. Having said that, the reason that led the HUA to process a unified file of a single hospitality provider was the integration of both hospitals into a single centre and, therefore – and in particular, in the case before us – within the same framework to provide the whole of the hospitality, which entails a route of confluence, governance and management, in which the Arab OSI continues to advance. Ikusten duzuenez, kantitate handiez ari gara hitz egiten. Heinera, patientengan eragina izan dezakeen gai bati buruz ere ari gara. Hau dau, gaur egun HUA ezagutzen gisa duguna sotu zen, éta horrek aldaketa sakonak ekarri zituen: Santiago éta Txagorritxu batu egin ziren, eta, odorioz, bataratu egin zena. I insist, the Arab OSI bets on files from the unique hospitality provider for both kitchens. It recognizes that it is a file with peculiarities in its management, since it must guarantee the proper diet for different professional profiles and the material to give service to a hospital outside the building, as is the case with the psychiatric hospital, which is served from Santiago. This statement is made in the fact that, in recent years, there have been several contractors for this contract in HUA. There is a case that the number of companies that submit to tender has been reduced, and several of these companies have expressed difficulty in their implementation. On the other hand, Mrs Ubera, the data to which the LAB trade union has had access to charge the Arab OSI with irregularities are data that have been published on the intranet of the Arab OSI itself, data that are detailed, in many cases accounting notes but partial and untraceable, that must be valued together with the contract documents, their annexes and the settlement, and that, without being completed with these aspects, can lead to deviated conclusions. This has been publicly stated by the OSI itself in its press release after hearing the complaint of the LAB union, because this union decided to go to the Prosecutor's Office, without meeting with the Arab OSI to clarify any doubts it might have. As I understand it, on November 18, 2019 – and not before – the LAB union was in contact with some members of the Directorate of the Arab OSI, some members, and reported possible irregularities. They were given an appointment for the next day to be able to clarify any doubts they might have about it; however, on 19 November, LAB excuses their attendance at that clarification meeting, so they are reconvened for the 20th, which they again claim is impossible to attend. Despite all this, without having been able to clarify and contrast the data or doubts, the Arab OSI knows from the press the news that the LAB union has already filed a complaint with the Prosecutor's Office and that it has sent a press note to the media accusing them of irregularities. We are dealing with a complex and very particular dossier, which unifies different operations into a single dossier, with accounting notes shared by the management services of the organisation. Select these accounting notes published by the OSI itself on the intranet, interpret differences between centers as irregularities, do not clarify possible doubts and switch directly to complaint and public dissemination, a priori. For our part, aware of this complaint and these facts, the Economic and Financial Directorate of Osakidetza has formed a working team that is verifying the terms of the contract, the supply of suppliers and the structure of the hospitality service of the Arab OSI. In the event that the Office of the Prosecutor admits to processing this complaint, which we do not know today and is addressed to the Arab OIOS, it does not doubt that all the information requested will be cooperated and forwarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u96	Don't fool me, Mrs. Murga. Let's see, we're not talking about food or diets, or about young people eating more than old people. No, no, we're talking about supplies of consumable material. Point. Here is an exchange, and a pledge; A5, B7-B7, Santiago, diet, and nutritious food are directed to psychiatricism no fungibles-the psychic contraction, there's a plalgu, a company hired, and that's all that can be explained except that Santiago fungitro fungitro, furious, Santiago, red-hot; elsiquirit nobire nada ver, ver? , clear and clear. LAB met with all the boarders, and there was only a lack of germination. You know, Mrs. Murga, what the evidence is that there has been corruption and has been conscious that there has been a waste of public money. Do you know what it is? You see, when the charges were made public and the subject was transferred to the prosecutor, the supplies were stopped by the public warehouse, the pellet was no longer made. So, what more proof do you want to see that things haven't been done well? So, deliberately, we are on the verge of squandering the wrong use of public money, and he who made his request to the public stores knew what he was doing, knew what he was doing. And the question is, where's the change, the difference, where did it go? What happened to that public money? And here are two things very clear: One, this management, because there have been more than one contract here, three contractions. And seeing that the company wasn't asking for anything, numbers, results, consequences... they were there. And yet the counternation was still in the same numbers. So, for starters, low management, bad... It was there. First of all, yeah? And two, look at all this, seeing that this could be done from the public stores, why should a company be hired? What for? If the public stores can do that, why should we hire a private company? Three million euros. What happened to Santiago? Eta ez nahastu: it has nothing to do with food, diets, or that some eat more, others eat less; it has nothing to do with the psychiatric. We're talking about the supply of consumables, Mrs. Murga. Then what you have to do here is the auditorium, you have to make the auditory of the past few years, the exact, the auditory. You have to find out, Des. I beg your pardon, where have the balance of accounting ended? What happened to the public money? You have to find out. And then we have to determine our cares. We have to investigate and determine our cares. And until now the economic-financial director has to be taken out of care, right? We all have responsibility here. And when we do not fulfil and receive our cares, we are too much. We're too much! So, the economic management manager, the economic tuner director, where was he? Looking away? It's public money, isn't it? It's everybody's money, huh? Mrs. Murga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u98	Ubera anderea, we are aware that it is up to us to manage public money and the responsibility it entails, and in this the professionals of Osakidetza are involved daily. Gourre ardu da diru publikoaren run on beat Egypt age egunero Saiazen race. It is clear that there may be different ways to manage; but always within the framework of legality and transparency. Therefore, and with the aim of improving day-to-day, the Arab OSI is implementing new management measures. Thus, I am aware that the Arab OSI has worked these years to reduce the operational differences between the two kitchens, for what it was monitoring the execution of the contract at each headquarters and, thus, to be able to conform to the forecasts reflected in the leaflets of the file throughout the execution of the same. Also, looking to the future, to facilitate the management of diets, the Arab OSI values the incorporation of changes into future files, but aware of the benefits of maintaining unified recruitment, and advancing the organizational confluence of kitchen management. To facilitate this task, the Arab OSI has possible changes for future files, separately processing raw and expendable materials or, as a possibility, managing coffee shops in another file. It is also planned to move towards a single head of hotel management, which will make it easier to make the kitchen service of both hospitals more homogeneous, just as it has been done with other cross-cutting services that were in both hospitals and, consequently, duplicated when they were merged into an OSI. We talk about human resources, laboratories, among others. To this end, a single head of the hospitality service and a contract manager will be appointed, involving the two centres and the two kitchens. To this end, continue to make progress in reducing these operational differences. On the other hand, efforts are being made to standardize diets in all three hospitals. I understand that they must be adapted for each type of patient; what is worked with dietists, endocrines and the hospitality professionals themselves. In addition, and in a complementary way, as I have already mentioned, the working group formed by the Economic and Financial Directorate of Osakidetza is analysing the whole documentation, the traceability of these requests for fungibles, in order to make a detailed report on the management of the hospitality carried out by the Arab OSI. That is to say, although the Arab OSI is fulfilling in the next four years, it is in a process of adapting services and units, and the kitchen services have been immersed in this transformation. Measures are being taken to improve management, also to evaluate recent years and be more efficient, and always with the ultimate goal of providing the best service to patients. Azken finan, hori da Helburu nagusia: zerbitzu on bat eskaintzea, Eta, noski, errekurtsoen on bat eginda. Finally, I would like to re-emphasize that neither the Arab OSI nor any health organization in Osakidetza refuses to hold meetings with any trade union group or social worker. An example of Osakidetza's attitude is that all the actions that are taking place at every moment have always been explained. In addition, data transparency systems have been put in place, the main purpose of which is to facilitate better management. This was precisely the source from which the complainant union obtained the information; but, I insist, without a contrast, it allegedly transferred it to the Office of the Prosecutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The 15th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Laura Garridio Knörre, a member of the Postula team, a member of the Medical Department, a position in the Guardian Hospitals' Watching of Fame." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, good morning. Well, it's not the first time, counselor, that we ask a question of this nature, question about ranking ranking ranking ranking It has caught our attention again that the Basque hospitals do not go very well standing in this ranking ranking And I have to tell him that he has also surprised us, not anymore the position, that we are at number 26 – and then I will tell him why he surprised us – but rather, before us, because there are other hospitals that one thought were a little more modest than the hospitals that we have in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. In front we have the university hospital of La Coruña, we have the Virgen de la Arrixaca university clinical hospital in Murcia, the Reina Sofia university hospital in Córdoba, the central university hospital of Asturias, the regional university hospital of Malaga, the general university hospital of Ciudad Real and the hospital of Manises. But it's just that, besides, it's not just that this year we show up at number 26. The first hospital to appear is number 26, Galdakao-Usansolo; then the one to Cruces, 33, and the university hospital to Álava, 42. And then you have to go far enough away to see Basque hospitals again, like you have to go down to 73 to see Basurto Hospital, and at number 76 Donostia Hospital. But it does attract attention, because I already tell you that every year we don't show up before the 23rd, as it did in 2016. I would like, Madam Councillor, not to go along with the statements that Mr Darpón made to me when I asked him about this very issue, and he pointed out to me that there were countless more relevant issues to deal with in this Parliament, than the ranking methodology. I, as a Basque citizen, have to tell you that I certainly do not comply, that I do not think you can fall on this issue or on so many others in conformism, when we are the autonomous community that we spend most per inhabitant (budgets last year, 1,731). It seems, moreover, that this amount will be greater in the next budgets that you have agreed with Podemos, where the per capita expenditure is the largest of all the autonomous communities and will rise to the figure of 1,801 euros. Conclusion: We believe that this Government does not spend very efficiently, that public money is not managed very efficiently in a matter as sensitive as health. In view is the results obtained in this ranking I don't think you can, besides, advise, discredit a ranking.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u101	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u102	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok, Garrido andrea. First of all, I would like to explain to this House, so that you have the full information, that the Health Reputation Monitor is a ranking Therefore, Mrs Garrido, this study is a private initiative aimed at advertising and generating reputation, but targeted at sectors such as laboratories and health insurers. We respect this type of study, and we understand that it can be useful for those who organize and finance it, but it is completely removed from our sphere of action and, if I may, from our interest as public servants. We are the first to be able to offer Basque society a good public health system. And, for that, we started with good budgets, with an amount per inhabitant that seems to us to be the right one. This is what Basques and Basques deserve, and we strive every day to be efficient, as other information shows that they do have a known methodology, such as the last Basque Sociometer. The image of public services between Basques and Basques is positive. In particular, 80% of respondents say that their image of Osakidetza is very good or quite positive. Moreover, it is more so than the average of the European Union. Thus, 84% of respondents from a random sample of Basques and Basques, representative of the whole population and not sectorised to the interest of certain private actors, consider that the health services of Basques work well. Irritarren anger from, Garrido anderea, gu benetan arduratzen gaituena; haiek will say gure helburua eta eurentzat lan egiten dugu. That is why we always talk about quality, satisfaction, indicators, national and international standards, objectives, which we achieve, and we recognize those that we do not achieve, but always on the basis of rigorous and contrasting data. And in those rankings Those are the recognitions that really interest us. In Osakidetza we do not bet on having the best hospital in the state on an individual level, because we are 2,200,000 inhabitants. We bet we have the best health system for the entire population with equity, and in that ranking Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The 16th point in the subject list. "I ask you, Juan Uria Serranus, the law student of the Podemos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, who, by the public offering of 2016-7, attains the law of impregnable physicians in Osacia." Mr. Uria, your word is yours. uri serO Yesterday we were several doctors who, we worked in Osakidetza, hospitals and health center, making a letter to the Olentzero, which we hope will be published soon. And I said, "Wait a minute. Take out the incompatibilities, which I'm going to ask the counselor today, and see what she tells me." And that's the question. There are times in life when organizations have historic opportunities. Hundreds of new professionals will enter Osakidetza. The heads of service will be evaluated. Why are incompatibilities not applied, the law of incompatibilities, in Osakidetza, in the coming months?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u104	Thank you, Mr. Uria. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours. Prime Medical Departments Law 53/1984 of 26 December 1984 on Staff Incompatibilities in the Public Administration Service applies to optional health personnel serving in Osakidetza. Of course, Osakidetza staff are also covered by Royal Decree 598/1985 of 30 April. Article 1.1 of the said Incompatibilities Act stipulates that "staff falling within the scope of this Act shall not be able to reconcile their activities with the performance of a second job, position or activity in the public sector by themselves or by substitution, except in the cases provided for therein". And these assumptions are those contained in article 3 of the said law, and relate to the teaching and health research functions. So, as you already know, Mr Uria, for the exercise of the second activity, also in the private sphere, an authorization for compatibility is indispensable. And that's what we ask of Osakidetza's optional staff. Moreover, we could say that it is customary to authorize compatibility for the performance of positions of associate professor or part-time university contract, according to the dedication established in the agreement between the UPV-Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea and Osakidetza for the use of health institutions in university research and teaching. It's common, it suits us, and I'm sure you do, too. Uria jauna, legeak betetzeko daude, éta Osakidetzan, betetzeko neurri guztiak jartzen dira. I'm glad they create many medical and professional doctors like you and me at the Olentzero, and we will continue to write the letter to the Magi. And the Olentzero, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u105	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Uria, your word is yours. uri serO Eskerrik asko, counselor, for the answer. Indeed, the law is not enforced in Osakidetza. The legal framework that we discussed extensively on the 13th of 11th of 2017 in the Health Commission. 103 of the Constitution, which speaks of the impartiality of the exercise of public functions; 53/84, which he has very well mentioned, of the Law on Incompatibilities; Decree 598/85, on regulatory development; Law 55/2003, etc., etc. We have a broad legal framework. In fact, we discussed in that Health Commission only that the law should be enforced. But it doesn't come true. Let's see. Madrid, Extremadura and Catalonia do not comply with any of the law. In any case, Madrid says that you can work in private no longer than half the public. Galicia, Andalusia and Asturias apply incompatibility with exclusive complement. Valencian Community, Murcia and Aragon apply strict incompatibility to the heads of service who work in the public in relation to the private. Y "nosotres" [Laughter] We are tired of the fact that the propaganda of private centers, such as Quiron hospital or IMQ, among others, in addition to insurance, is linked to doctors working in the public sector, to heads of service. We are tired of the patients themselves commenting, over and over again, that they have the same doctors when they go to the public and private sector, giving rise to all the corruptions that you already know perfectly, and parasitism. Recipe here, recipe there. Plate here, plate there. TAC here, TAC there. And so on and so on. And you speak well of the authorization of teaching. Look, one day – not before the winter solstice, but one day – we'll have to talk about what medical school we have in Euskadi when most of its staff is part-time. Or we prepare a powerful, quality and efficient Faculty of Medicine to compete with the new Faculty of Medicine that the Jesuits are going to assemble in Deusto or our Faculty of Medicine goes to the garete, from the competitive point of view, because most of your staff is part-time, as you have rightly said. Therefore, the interests of many of our friends, teachers, professors... of the Faculty of Medicine of the Basque Country have two interests: their job in our public centers and their job as teachers. That's a problem. We have proposed that it is an opportunity to sort out what we have disordered in Osakidetza. That the market is very complicated and what we don't have the ability to shield today, to shield our professionals today...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u106	Thank you, Mr. Uria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u107	... We lose him tomorrow, sure, as you know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u108	Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u109	In order to enforce the provisions of the law of incompatibilities, at the time of taking possession of the destiny... of the assigned destination, the professional signs an affidavit. A statement in which he states, and I read textually, that he "has not been performing any position or activity in the public sector, defined by article 1 of Law 53/1984 of 26 December 1984 on Staff Incompatibilities in the Public Administration Service, nor is he engaged in any private activity incompatible with or subject to the recognition of compatibility", as is the case with the concerted actions. In addition, I would add that this affidavit derives from compliance with the requirement set out in base 6.2 of the general bases of the OPE 2016-2017. Therefore, Mr.Uria, in the event that at the time of taking office the professional or professional carries out any activity subject to the law of incompatibilities, he must inform Osakidetza, he must communicate it and request the appropriate authorization or not, under his responsibility, and thus in compliance with the law. As I said before, don't worry, Osarides knows that the laws should be executed, and he obeys them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interregation, the parliamentary members of the Basque Barroj Barojic team, made for Cultura and the chief political department of the State, the Eulegious Dreams of the Cultural Family Council, the composition, organization, and business. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u111	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Good. This is an inquiry into something we have recently, which is that the Basque Government introduced a bill on cultural heritage; the Basque Parliament as it analyzed, studied it, and by Law 6/2019 of 9 May, we have a law on Basque cultural heritage. And in it is established an organ, constituted and created an organ, which has to be important for the definition, for the subjects it has to... in relation to its organization, its functioning, its functions, as a consultant to the Government, the institutions, in relation to what has to do with the Basque cultural heritage. It is clear that Mr Estarrona has already asked you some questions. And well, the answer is that, well, work is being done on the drafting of this decree or this regulatory provision, as is the case with others in the law. For us, we also said this in the process of, well, the draft law, in our debates on papers, and then, since we let it be recorded in committee and in plenary, it was important and the composition of the council is important, no. The presence on the council of experts, experts of the various Basque resources linked to many things that have to do with the cultural heritage, experts linked to the ownership of the heritage and, of course, linked to the study of the heritage, to the preservation of the heritage, to the knowledge of the heritage, of that heritage in which, logically, acquires a new expression the intangible heritage, logically along with the furniture and real estate. Well, in that sense, because there are our keys, and we are particularly interested in that instrument going well, aren't we? My group was very surprised in the handling of the bill, very surprised, when Bildu did a favor to the Department of Culture, impressive, wasn't it? In other words, the draft law laid down in article 4 what was the Basque Cultural Heritage Council, and in what was its composition, that is, what was – in the draft law, uh –... what was its composition, was composed of the following members, and then, since the Presidency, which was going to be the Government, the Vice-President was going to be the Government, a voice corresponding also to entities, bodies of professional sectors, also the leadership of the Basque Government with competence in urban planning, that is, the Government was well nourished..., the leadership of the Basque Government with competence in environmental matters, well, the diputations, associations of municipalities, the University of the Basque Country, the Basque-Navarro official college, people of recognized prestige in furniture heritage, intangible heritage... I mean, I meant... In addition, the Presidency could appoint a maximum of four members from among technical people, specialists, experts that we would all have... and that, well. And my group was very surprised when, instead of talking about this issue and trying to improve it... We also tabled amendments to improve: we understood that not only does the UPV have the characteristics of experts in matters of cultural heritage; Deusto, the University of Deusto, could also contribute. One must recognize the faculties that it has linked to cultural heritage, history, literary, all; a series of issues and history relating to the University, which could also be an integral factor in the composition. Or we also missed a representative of the Basque dioceses in relation to..., and their experts; in the dioceses they have experts in cultural heritage; without going any further, the Church is the owner of most of the cultural heritage that exists in this country. And yet that debate was not held, but the debate that was held is: no, no, we are not going to talk about the heritage, about the composition of the Basque Cultural Heritage Council, which the Government decides. Let the government decide! And those steps behind Parliament and the legislative work are steps back. In other words, we could have talked about how to enrich that composition of the Basque Cultural Heritage Council, but in any case, we did not, and let us back down; and then, all responsibility lies with the Government. Well, I would like to ask you, Mr. Counsellor, why is Article 4 of the Council of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country of Cultural Heritage, that is to say, the composition, organization, functioning and functions are going to be established by regulation. And regulatoryly, the system of organization and operation, and so on. The composition, then, by regulation too; that is, all that has to do with issues that could have been defined by law before are now going to regulation, which is a curious legislative reduction. But, in any case, we are interested to know what are the purposes of your department in relation to the final approval by decree of the composition, organization, functioning and functions of the Cultural Heritage Council of the Basque Autonomous Community. It is quite clear that you already had a forecast, and you already had – still not the decree; after these months, it is not yet proven – a forecast, because you had stated it in the drafting of the bill. We would like to know how that... what approach are they giving to the composition and, logically, to the organization, functioning and functions of the Cultural Heritage Council of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u112	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u113	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, Mr. Barri. The Basque Parliament, as you said and as you reminded us, adopted the Basque Cultural Heritage Act on 9 May last year, and it was also supported by a large majority in this House. And this was because the parliamentary groups mostly understood – there was no vote against – that it was necessary to update and adapt our legal system, in order to incorporate into it the conceptual evolution that the subject of cultural heritage has experienced in recent decades. Euskadi was a pioneer, in her day, in regulating this matter with the 1990 law, and with this new norm we have equipped ourselves with an updated tool for an integral management of the cultural heritage: from its identification and documentation, to its research, conservation and protection. The passing of the law, I believe, was an important milestone in further progress in the knowledge, treatment and transmission of our cultural heritage. And, well, I have no intention of reproducing the contents of the rule, because they are well known, but, because I think it is a way of responding to it, I do want to highlight some aspects of it: The first, which refers to the bodies responsible for the management of cultural heritage, and in this regard, I would like to specify the competences which fall within each institutional level in our Community: The Basque Executive, the Government, is responsible for coordinating the activities of public administrations in the field of cultural heritage, the declaration of cultural property, the management of the Basque Cultural Heritage Register and the Register of Cultural Property of Basic Protection, the development and maintenance of the inventory and the establishment of technical and methodological criteria for its preparation, the preparation of the mandatory report on the rules and plans affecting the cultural heritage, the promotion of economic measures to promote their development, the exercise of the right of tanteo and retraction for themselves or for other institutions, the dissemination of the Basque cultural heritage, and the promotion of agreements and relations with other autonomous communities, the General Administration of the State, European institutions and international organizations. To outlaws, the law recognizes their competence in the area of normative development and enforcement of conservation, improvement and restoration, or, where appropriate, excavation of the heritage, authorization of interventions on protected cultural property, inspection of actions carried out in assets belonging to the heritage, preparation of the mandatory report proper to the resolution of the file of declaration of ruin, impulse to economic measures of promotion for its conservation and restoration, regulation of possible fiscal incentives for this, and dissemination of the localized cultural heritage. Finally, the municipalities are responsible for drafting and managing the urban protection catalogues, authorizing interventions on monumental structures, taking measures to prevent damage to the heritage in the event of imminent ruin, and promoting and disseminating the cultural heritage of the municipality. These are all the subjects that cover the protection and development of heritage, and these are the institutions and these are the competences that each one of them has. Therefore, the law, and I believe that this was one of the most important aspects of the new legal text, addresses the protection of heritage as a matter that requires comprehensive management. And this comprehensive management takes place according to the competences and coordination between the different institutions of our Community. Therefore, shared governance is the basis for a good development of our cultural heritage. In this regard, and as an advisory body and in order to improve this management of the competences that are appropriate at each institutional level, the law also establishes two bodies: one of an inter-agency nature, which should promote the exchange of information and collaboration, propose common criteria for safeguarding and transmitting and enhancing the heritage, propose coordination measures and promote effective cooperation with other administrations in areas such as land management and urban planning, housing, industry, environment, tourism or education. And, as you have said, or recalled, the aspects relating to its composition and functioning must be developed through regulation. On the other hand, it establishes the creation of the Basque Cultural Heritage Council, which is also a consultative, participatory, multidisciplinary body, which must incorporate other public administrations and can also invite professionals in the sector. It should also advise public administrations on this matter, issue reports to the Government on proposals for the declaration of special protection goods, or issue reports prior to giving effect to declarations of cultural property. Your question, Mr Barrio, seems to me to be timely and appropriate; because, indeed, the establishment of this body, by means of a regulation, is a matter for the Government and, as a Government, we must do so. You ask about the purposes of its composition and operation. And I must refer to the articulation of the law. It shall be composed of qualified staff of the institutions of the Autonomous Community and technical staff, specialists or representatives of the professional sectors working in the field of cultural heritage. And the law also says that it must have sufficient technical support for its tasks, that it must be organized in plenary or in commissions, and that it will have a balanced composition of men and women. Therefore, I have literally referred to what is determined by the law, because this is the framework within which the Cultural Heritage Directorate is moving in the internal work it is doing to produce the document. For the time being, these are internal tasks; we are on it. The planning tasks of the Heritage Directorate began on 1 October and it is planned to be completed within a year, approximately, as we stated in writing in Mr Estarrona's reply, on behalf of EH Bildu, on 15 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u114	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u115	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for your answer. It is quite clear: a new piece of legislation was needed in relation to heritage. That's been being claimed for a long time. There were some issues that had become obsolete and others that needed to be regulated, because they were not defined, and we recognized that. There was no complete amendment on our part and, in that regard, we started a debate on paper and in committee, a parliamentary debate. And that's our input, isn't it? It has also made a review of the law and the powers of the various institutions, and it is important that the law assigns, therefore, not only to the Basque Government, but also to the outlaws and the municipalities, in relation to a key issue, is it not?: our cultural heritage and its preservation and regulation. And, of course, because we were finally staying, and that is why it was the subject of our inquiry, in the Basque Cultural Heritage Council, because it was going to unite efforts, because it was going to be a point of... let's, apart from those advisory work, of issuing reports, have no doubt that the... that the presence, the presence of experts in relation to those reports of specialists, no?, because on cultural heritage was going to be important. And that's why it was very good that it had been determined in the law. And that's what surprised us, isn't it?, that is, to lower that legal requirement of the composition of an important council. Lower it through an amendment by Bildu. To reduce a legal requirement, which the Government itself established, to an administrative requirement. There was one thing that remained unresolved in the work of the committee and in the work of the paper. We had some amendments, that is to say, I would like to know whether you have valued them. As, indeed, the Government and the groups supporting the Government were delighted with the Bildu amendment, because, instead of regulating it by law, the Council regulated it and appointed it by the Government, for... and then immediately assumed the Bildu amendment, and then, for nothing, there is a small step backwards in relation to how good that law had, because it enriched the law by establishing the composition of the Council. For now, not now; now the Government will, that is, that is good for the Government. I understood that for the opposition it was not so good; but, well, in any case, it was the opposition that raised it. But we did raise some questions. We raised a couple of questions, which had to do with people and entities who could participate in the composition of that council, of that Euskadi Cultural Heritage Council. It's pretty clear. We spoke of the University of Deusto, because you spoke in the bill only of the University of the Basque Country. And it is very clear that the University of Deusto is intimately linked, academically linked, to factors that have to do with knowledge, study... of our cultural heritage. And we were... we had also made a proposal, which was not debated, because, indeed, the initiative and amendment of Bildu was taken, to include also some expert member of the Basque dioceses, of the diocese of Vitoria, of San Sebastian, of Bilbao, of the bishops, who, logically, have much to say in the matter of cultural heritage. Because, I say again, the majority of the cultural heritage, in general terms, of this country is of the Catholic Church. And, in that sense, we wanted to know that question: whether you are also appreciating that approach that we did in the process. Because it was an approach that at some point I saw some willingness to accept. What happens then changed by the assumption of Bildu's amendment, which lowered those expectations of legis... In other words, we were surprised in that case, and in any case, the fact of lowering that legal requirement that we had in the bill to administrative requirement, as we were also very surprised by the fact that, Mr. Counsellor – this is almost a small relief –... the fact that we defined the Basque cultural heritage in a broad way, wasn't it?: archaeological, paleontological, industrial, artistic, cultural, historical, feminist heritage... But we were unable to bring in the religious heritage. And see how far the religious heritage comes in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u116	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u117	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature. Mr. Barrio, I'm going to confess to you that I've been clumsy on this subject, because I couldn't understand what the ultimate reason for the interpellation was. You have now made this clear to me, and I thank you for the information you have provided me. You refer to this issue as if the Government and the other institutions will show an absolute disinterest in the heritage, real estate or furniture, which belongs to the Catholic Church. And I don't think that's right. I don't think you're right. The Church has movable property, as do some families or other institutions in this country. It has real estate, such as other families, businesses or institutions. And the government attends to everyone. Moreover, in the case of the Catholic Church, with some more than other institutions they do not receive. But, well, we'll continue to work on heritage conservation. Since you give me the opportunity, I would like to say that the new heritage law has not taken away any of the tasks already being carried out by the work team of the Government Heritage Directorate, but it has added a lot of new tasks. And, with the same human team, it is facing the obligations that will derive from that law. And this requires work planning. It also requires defining the tasks to be undertaken. And since you give me the opportunity, I will give you an explanation of what tasks this Heritage team is currently working on. We are in the process of drafting the regulations of the institutional body, which also provides for the law. We are in the regulation of the Basque Cultural Heritage Register. We are in the regulation of the Register of Cultural Property of Basic Protection. And work is beginning on development related to the protection and dissemination of intangible heritage, a task and an area that is exciting and complex, and new. It is also my will that all aspects of this new law be developed; they are developed as quickly as possible. And the body that we must also address, first of all, must count, I believe, with the satisfaction of the different institutional levels, on identifying the members who will accompany us on this Council, because in the end they are the institutions responsible and competent in this area. In any case, with a view to the composition of that body, we need to know other opinions, and in this regard, last May, from the Directorate of Heritage, we organized an open session aimed at technical staff in the fields of culture, architecture and archaeology of outlaws and municipalities, in which we presented the new aspects of the law. Participation in all kinds of forums has also been promoted, with the same aim. Coordination with the Department of Territorial Planning, Environment and Housing has also been established to collect the information required for the development of the law. And we are also in relations with the municipalities, to complete the basic protection inventory, which, as you know, is presented as an important work object. Therefore, we will continue to work, to see if we can meet the periodification that has been established for the task that we have pending. We will try to accept suggestions and be open in the definition of the members who must complete or form that committee, that advisory council. And, well, I hope it's everyone's pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u118	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Myria Llanos Gómez, the deputy of the Popula team, in the town hall of Gobesque, on a show made in Gechion." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u119	Thank you, Madam President; good afternoon, everyone. Indeed, an exhibition has been organized on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in the Gobelas municipal sports centre in Getxo. An exhibition in which each article of the declaration is accompanied by a cartoon. Article 5 of this document, which prohibits torture, contains police officers dressed in uniforms, armed with batons and shotguns, and laughing as they read a book entitled Human Rights In our opinion, I do not know yours, Madam Counsellor, this cartoon is absolutely offensive, and it does not correspond to the actions of our Police, and, on the contrary, it does promote hatred and violence against the collective. The exhibition seems to be sponsored by the Basque Government; but even if you were not, you should have said something. That is why I ask you, Madam Counsellor, to come out here and tell us what opinion this cartoon deserves. Let him go out and explain to us why he has done nothing, why he has not raised his voice, to ask that an exhibition be closed in which the Ertzaintza appears portrayed as a mason and torturer, and why he has not moved a finger to defend the Ertzaintza from those who insult her and try to denigrate her work. And I don't know if you're going to excuse me for freedom of expression. And I am already telling you that, in our opinion, this is not about freedom of expression. It will defend the professionalism of thousands of agents who every day leave their hides to defend our rights and freedoms. And I don't know if you're going to tell me, like the organizers, which refers to the Chinese police, but I'm telling you that, on many websites, you're identifying yourself in that Ertzaintza cartoon. This goes, counselor, that you cannot look elsewhere when you discredit the trajectory of Ertzaintza. Because, if you look elsewhere, what is being done is to feed the strategy of discredit and insults, which, from certain sectors of this society – which we all clearly identify – continues to be launched against our inertzainas, against our police officers. Counselor, that point to Ertzaintza cannot be consented to. And you have a responsibility to go out and defend the agents of Ertzaintza. And you have a double responsibility, because you've sown winds and now you're picking up storms. The Basque Government affirmed that Ertzaintza had to strengthen its commitment to human rights, as if it had not had it forever. And you didn't say anything. In this Parliament, a report of torture was defended, accusing the Ertzaintza of being a torturer, yes, only for personal assessments, without any legal basis or complaint. And you didn't say anything. Mr. Otegi, by calling him in some way, on Basque television insulted the Ertzaintza, calling them murderers and they had killed. And you didn't say anything. That compadreo with Bildu for political and electoral calculations, that way of doing politics and exercising their responsibilities, leads us to this kind of situation: to admit that it is normal to insult our Police. That you stay there, as if nothing happened, and yes, counselor, it happens that thousands of police officers go out to do their job, professionally, rigorously, seriously, responsibly... And these agents have no grace to be insulted, accused of torturers and of laughing at human rights. That is why, Madam Counsellor, you are exercising your obligation. Defend the Ertzaintza, defend the agents of all the bodies and security forces of the State, because it is a democratic obligation of all, but much more of you. Do it for institutional political responsibility, but also for empathy. Does it seem normal for the police to be seen as laughing at human rights? Does it seem normal to you that, with those laughs, what you want to show is that the police torture systematically? Don't you have anything to say? Aren't you going to raise your voice? Why didn't you require that this photo be removed from the exhibition? Counselor, you should have done so; not only for institutional responsibility and empathy, but, fundamentally, to be up to the level of the police officers you direct.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u120	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u121	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Mrs Llanos, you ask me about a cartoon of a commemorative, publicizing exhibition on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I will insist on that which you have pointed out, because I think it is important: to reschedule the exhibition. It commemorates the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, between 48 and 2018. They created it for that purpose. It is a project of artistic creativity, sustainable exhibition, of a global collaborative platform, for cartoon publishers and comic journalism. The exhibition, as you have said, is supported by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, and is permanently posted on the Cartoon Movement website. On that same page, Mrs. Llanos, you can observe how many other projects, of similar characteristics, with other reasons, are also displayed on that website, from which anyone can download. They talk about poverty, about Press Freedom Day, about freedom and oppression, about food security, about the garbage universe, about Ocean Day, in short... And none of those in the cartoons of the travelling exhibition mentions any particular organization, any particular institution. These are generic references about justice, family, poverty, work, political participation... Each illustrator has shaped his particular vision of a specific human right. And, of course, I believe that in this you will agree with me, that it is impossible for everyone to agree and share a particular, personal vision and that, of course, it is intransferable, because the vision of the world also depends on the environment in which everyone lives, on the reality in which everyone develops. So, what's in the cartoon is the idea of the Brazilian illustrator's police? Well, maybe so. Maybe so. I don't share it. I don't share the generality. It is a statement, I insist, endorsed by the United Nations High Commissioner. It's a traveling exhibition. It is an exhibition that has been exhibited not only in Euskadi, not only in Getxo, which has been exhibited in various places in the world, which is open, as I said before, permanently. It is an exhibition in which there is no Basque artist and there is a Spanish representative. But I'm also telling you that I'm not going to swallow either that author's or that illustrator's vignette, nor am I going to endorse even the taste that it has had who has selected that vignette. What worries me is that the criterion of this Brazilian artist, that in that criterion expressed by this Brazilian artist, sees someone reflect or a glimpse of the reflection of the Ertzaintza. I don't see him there. I don't see him there! I've told you before: I don't believe in generalities. And I'm not seeing the reflection of Ertzaintza there. I hope you don't see him either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia. Miss Llanos? He mustn't speak. Not even Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia. The nineteenth point on the subject list. "To ask the question, Jul's Arzuga, Member of the EH team, made for the Security Chief, the Civil Guard and the Spanish Police Control." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours. azuga Gumulation Civil Guard and National Police do arbitrary military control over our countries and our highways, which renders so many citizens an intolerable insult and insult. It's true that for the last years the control of the Civil Guard has obviously dropped, and that's a good thing to say: 2016. In the year 3.214 there were controls, and in 2017 he went down half. Fifty controls in 2018, and in the first six months of this year, 18 control has been made. They may be few, but they are too few for us because they have no justification, because there is no excuse for doing so, and they have no right to do it. We give the Civil Guard zero control in a way, as it were, to the end. But we have seen another problem, Mrs. Beltán de Heedia, and half of these 18 is that you haven't been informed by the Civil Guard. You've been wired with nine controls and nine controls have been detected by you, the edgelines. And we did an exercise. We have requested that people on social networks have detected other controls, and we have been informed that there have been more control. You will tell me that the data is of no trust; but what you will have to admit will be that the edgelines are not all controls, that you detect all the controls of the Civil Guard, because you are not infallible to do it, and, in a way, you must confirm that there may be more controls. And there's illegal controls in this town that bothers us. And I'm asking you why this is out of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u123	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours. Security Chiefs Mr. Azuga, in response to your curiosity, this year, the Civil Guard has made 27 controls of Euskadin. 27th to this day. 16. It has been previously revealed to the Border. The others don't. The unreported are 11 of the controls, at least those that Ertzaintza has known. There were nine, as you mentioned earlier, between February and August, and two more that have occurred in July and August. All of these unreported controls, with the exception of one, have a common feature: most of them have been developed in locations near the border. In localities near Irun or in Irun itself. But I also have to tell you that we have moved, from the department, our complaint, our lack of communication to the ministry – to the Ministry of the Interior – and, since that time, there have been seven more controls, all of which have been previously communicated. All controls, communicated and not communicated, are the responsibility of the Civil Guard. We have no knowledge or detection of any incident by the National Police, and it is true that the State security forces have a duty to communicate controls. It is also a matter in which every certain time, as we have been repeating, we find ourselves under the obligation to remember that need to communicate them. And to communicate, even, what is the motivation and whether the motivation, indeed, is in line with the competences maintained by the Civil Guard and the National Police in Euskadi. And we will continue to do so whenever necessary. At the moment, what I can tell you is that, in the second half of this year, the communication channels have worked, which did not happen in this first half of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u124	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u125	Yeah. Thank you, Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia. Indeed, there is a communication problem. But there is another problem, which is the really serious one, which is the persistence of the existence of these controls; 27 you can tell me, and it is not a lot. But, I say again: our expectation is zero Civil Guard controls in this country. Because, moreover, it is the Gernika Statute itself that sets out in which cases these controls could be carried out, and there are three requirements: first, at the request of the Basque Government, and I imagine that this circumstance does not occur; second, on their own initiative, when they consider that the general interest of the State is seriously compromised, the approval of the Security Board is necessary, and I imagine that there is neither this risk nor the approval of the Security Board; or, in cases of particular urgency, it will be able to intervene under the sole responsibility of the Government of Madrid, giving this account to the General Courts. And I imagine that there is neither a special urgency nor that accountability is taking place in front of the Courts. And then, I think it is an illegitimate intervention; it is a de facto de facto situation. And I'm concerned about that expansive vision of the Civil Guard and the National Police, because not only in the area of controls, but in other areas they are also entering, as it is in the assumption of the marine rescue or as it is in the question of the EPRONA – which we saw yesterday or the other day – that there is entering environmental services, which disputes the land, the space... to the Ertzaintza Environmental Unit. And I'm worried about that, that expanding Civil Guard. And I want to know if your apartment's gonna set up a wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u126	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u127	Mr. Azuga, three things, three different aspects, eh? : On the one hand, the communication of controls and other police operators between the police. On the other hand, in the thread of an inquiry, the most painful fractions which must be considered here, but which must be considered here, or must be pursued. And thirdly, to intervene in the Jurisdiction, which is not to the Self. If I remember correctly, today's question was on the subject of unreported controls. I have already explained to you what that situation is; a situation that has been corrected, which has been normalized since August. In any case, what has to be made clear is that communication between the different police and security forces is absolutely necessary. And a good example of this is the police operation that we just carried out, this very week, between the Baiona National Police, the Civil Guard and the Ertzaintza itself, with a positive result, regarding the seizure of a ton of hashish and 50 kilograms of marijuana and four people arrested. Information and coordination, yes, always. But any attempt at competitive invasion, as you say, foot on wall, Mr. Arzuaga. Have no doubt, have no doubt at all that we defend and defend our competences, and we will give the political battle where it is needed and where it is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-13.u128	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and eleven.
