ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u0	Let's start the list of subjects. Good morning, everyone. Before we proceed, we will call our colleague Josephba Díez of the House of Commons. [[Berber]] Hello, good morning! [[Berber]] Presidedly on the subject. "To judge for once the drawings of the whole meeting of June 13th, following the 92.1 article of the ruler, as to the other proposal made by the Parliamentary team, about setting up a new impact plan against the young press." Please be quiet. It was a draw to collect EH, and to vote the middle corrections introduced by the Podemos team together. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that correction vote again. Two votes... It was asked to do twice: on the one hand, the first point and the second point. So we vote first and second points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 35; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u1	So one and two points have not been accepted. After three, seven, we'll vote the other points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 28; rivals, 44; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u2	So the points from three to seven have not been accepted. Next, Eucabertians and Basque Socialists vote the whole correction of the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 37; the opponents, 35; the whites, 0; abstaining, 0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u3	So the full correction has been accepted. First point in theme list: "Permitment of the legislative initiative for the General Courts of the United States, concerning the change of article 143,1995 of the Imperial Law of the Penitentiary of the Criminal Code. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're parted, and we're just going to argue. In addition to EHG, someone else wants to participate? Okay. Anyone else? Yeah, together by Podemos. Who else? Side shift? No? Together, Podemos, on the side. You are, but together Podemos is on the side. Yeah, right? All right, all right. No one else? So, Mrs. Ubera, representative of EH Collect, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u4	Well, first of all, good mornings all, and welcome to the representatives of the DMD, the parliament where their house is...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u5	And the rest, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u6	At the end of the previous legislation, when we accepted the law of securing the rights and dignity of persons at the end of life, I said at the end of my speech: Now, we begin to prepare the next step, in the course of the total freedom, for the desertion of the 143.4 article of the Penitentiary Act, and for that purpose I extend my hand to the rest of the parties, either at the same time in the Spanish Congress or in the next legislation, in this very house to take Madrid with me, in order to obtain the penalty for punishment. For, when the former law was admitted, we tried to enter the law several times, and for different reasons we failed. And then, according to what we said, we put him in the election program. Then, seeing that the theme of Madrid had begun to move, we began to protect the rest of us, because EH Collect always restores the interests of the people. We supported the good proposition Podemus presented to us...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u7	Yes, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u8	...and PSOE's too, although it's pretty bad. All the proposals which were proposed, and of all sorts we protected in the Spanish courts. But at once it was obvious that there were difficulties and different interests, even the ideological differences, and that the difficulties were to be carried on. And mingled with childishness: mine is, not yours. And while you're doing it, rubbing your hand on the chiffon. And thus we came to the end of the legislature at court, without any result, and the people to the ruin. witnessing this, the Hernandez Carrasco, or the signatures collected from the family of Maribel Tellla. So seeing what we have seen, we saw the little auto-gront we had seen, and that we had to do with the defence of rights and freedom, we decided to advance, and, to advance by force, we determined to appear before the Courts of Madrill, not only to defend our rights, but also to acquire our rights, and by solidarity with the rest of the people, the life of the State, and the death of the people, as well as the word we endeavour to perform, especially in the minds of the people, and in the thought of everyone, and even in the thought of their own egotism, because I do not want to find myself in that state of the community, and in which I am afraid of finding a family. And when I believe, and our party believe, we fight till the end, and we fight until the end, and we continue to fight, because there is time to give the people an effective response, because the lives of all people are shamed and worthy to defend, as far as possible, because they can't always be. And for this purpose, the policy and the laws are to serve or benefit the people, because the policy and the laws are to make them useful to the people, to the purpose of their decision, to the autonomy, dignity, and belief, and not even to the ideology. In fine, because this is the power of each man's decision to become reality: every man owns his own life, respecting the rest, and without forcing any one. No one forced. Besides, it has always been our purpose to put this dispute outside the sanitary discussion, because this is not a dispute of physicians, this is a dispute of all men, of all people, and of all people. But what is it? What exactly is it that we propose to take her to court? Our proposal has three points. Three points: one not to punish, that is to say, to dedicate the article 143.4, which is accepted; the second, in six months, to bring governments to the Courts, a project of laws, but we know that the projects of the laws require time to accept, and the third measure is, that governments, once the punishment has been dedicated, should establish a census, so that they may lead it to practice. And it is time to give effective answers from parties and institutions to the people. And from EAE, we have a chance to be a pioneer and be a promoter. I repeat: We cannot leave any more families and more people in this state, for we may all be present in this situation, for no one is free from it. So what we pretend to be is just a deeper insight into democracy... That's it: To penetrate into democracy. And let's go back to society's evolution and dynamism. Institutions and regulations, to adapt themselves to the state and ages under this policy, to maintain dignity and to end with the indefissional conditions. And this is all we propose to-day: to secure dignity and to end it with a state of indulgence. Look, Parlament If we were to be introduced from thence and thence into the Courts of Spain, to make and encourage all the commonwealths, look how many things can be obtained. Because the villagers managed to put this on the schedule. He's been posted on the schedule. And we're going to fill that schedule? It's our job to do that schedule. That's it. But today, ladies and gentlemen, the parties who support and support this government will turn their back to the EAE society. They'll turn their backs on him-I thought they wouldn't be able to, but they'll turn their backs on the People of EAE. In this day, once more, the interests of the people will be victorious. Once more, ladies and gentlemen. This is the style of this government, and the style of sects supporting this government: No, no, no, no. This is the negative of democracy, because of the process of opening the debat, and giving way to the debate. Democracy is a principle of democracy. And this is very serious, what will happen here today once more. Deny the discussion, deny the democracy. It is clear that the motto of this government is first me, the second me and the third. Me, me, me. This government is one of Ninia's generations. And it's sad. What's going to happen today is sad, and I hope that you'll be denied, and that the parties who support the government will follow the government's dictatorship and give it its course. And we have a chance, Parlament. Now, the antidemocratic conduct, cowardice, courage, selfishism, but I don't know whether what's in the bottom is ideology and whether it's not going on, even though, looking at society, there's another thing to be imagined. The usual, right? Imagine one thing looking at society, and then another.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mr. Uria, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u10	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, lehendakari, Sailburuok, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. First of all, I would like to greet the worthy representatives of the Association for the Right to a Dignity Death, who have an enviable process of militancy and civil resistance, in favour of a matter which, not because it is delicate, directly interferes with the culture of civil rights: we are not talking about anything else. 30 years after Ramón Sampedro's suicide, the Spanish Parliament has not even taken into account the debate on the right to the law of euthanasia and the right to assisted suicide on more than 16 occasions. Since 2002, when the Patient Autonomy Act was passed, a sufficient legal framework has been created to be able to discuss these issues freely. Elkarrekin We can certainly support the important initiative of comrade Rebeka Ubera on a legislative initiative that is in the law, so that this Basque Parliament will propose to the General Courts the amendment of article 143 of the Criminal Code. Any doctor or person who, at this time, intervenes in a process of euthanasia or assisted suicide is subjected to 2 or 10 years in prison. You can't handle people's pain so wrongly. We have lost a year in this country, improperly managing the pain of many families, not of the Tellaetxe family or of the Carrasco family, but of many other anonymous families, who cannot make decisions at the end of their lives to dignify their death. Not only has the Parliament of Catalonia – already on two occasions – made this legislative proposal; there is already another legislative proposal from the PSOE, which, for 60% of Parliament's votes, 208 exactly, on 20 July 2018, approved the debate for the decriminalization of euthanasia and the right to assisted suicide. In our opinion, it is a subject that should not be bureaucratized; there are people who are having a bad time. As comrade Ubera rightly said, it is not a medical issue; but, in case anyone is interested, in the only Spanish state medical school that has conducted a survey among its colleagues, which is that of Bizkaia, we have agreed with the right to euthanasia 82% of the collegiate doctors. There are more surveys, there are more investigations, but in case someone is interested in the medical problem. We are concerned about some issues, and I encourage the political parties in this Parliament, so that in the debate, which we hope will soon be, some difficulties can be corrected so that the Socialist Party proposal, which is currently under debate, can be successfully brought to an end. We do not think that, when civil rights are legislated, it is legal to bureaucratize access to civil rights. In our view, the first issue of the law, which would be interesting for both the PNV and Bildu, as well as the PSOE and as Elkarrekin We can discuss in the Spanish Parliament soon – if the Spanish Parliament is formed, if there is an agreement between the PSOE and Podemos, and there is no general election again, of course; I am talking about a political scenario of stability –... The first issue that concerns us is excessive bureaucracy, which is supposed to guarantee the exercise of the right; I mean that the patient or the person exercising the right or his or her family members need a medical consultant, then another medical consultant, and then a commission elected by the autonomous community to give the approval to the exercise of the right. It seems too bureaucratic to us; there is no comparison in Belgium, Luxembourg or the Netherlands; there is no comparison of this process in decision-making. This can create a second aspect no less worrying, that there are territorial differences in the autonomous communities for the approval of the exercise of this right. Imagine yourself, for example; imagine that in Andalusia an autonomous commission is created to guarantee and give the approval to this right of any family, of any person, formed by PP and VOX, who are in disagreement. Logically, they either dilate over time or slow down the exercise of this right, increasing the pain of families who so decide. Imagine that in another autonomous community they form commissions to give approval to these kinds of rights formed by political formations that agree; times, agility and permissivity would be greater. This can create migration processes between autonomous communities, apart from more than obvious inequalities. This is the second aspect that I encourage the various political parties represented here to discuss in the context of the debate on the law, which we hope will be close. Another aspect that we find interesting of the PSOE's bill at the Congressional Bureau of Deputies is the opportunity for it to have assumptions to make decisions, in addition to an incurable disease or in addition to an irreversible process of closeness to death. Two matters that have not been contemplated in the law, two cases that have not been contemplated in the law, that other countries with more courage than we have contemplated: One is the subject of minors to have access to this right, and another is the subject of serious mentally ill persons to have access to this right; the law does not provide for this right. It is a delicate subject, it is a complex subject, from the point of view of rights, from the point of view of its exercise and of the decision of the end of life; but, in our opinion, it is a subject that is given in today's society, a mature society, a society that already has a certain level of consensus on the subject. Our society is not a minor; it already has criteria, and therefore these three issues seem to us to open up a debate for the adoption of a forthcoming law on euthanasia within the framework of the Spanish State, I repeat the three: First, excessive red tape for the exercise of the right; second, the supposed inequality between autonomous communities to give the approval to the exercise of the right; and third, some assumptions of some people, some citizens, such as minors and serious mentally ill persons, which are not covered by the law under discussion. Compassion cannot be confused with right. Here we are talking about civil rights: we are not talking about Christian charity, we are not talking about compassion, we are not talking about poor people. We are talking about the full exercise of autonomous people. I remember that the Patient's Autonomy Act has been passed since 2002: autonomy and self-consciousness accompany people to the end of their lives. Therefore, a dignified life needs a dignified death. It's a free choice, who doesn't want to take it that doesn't take it, who wants to take it that doesn't have bureaucratic, legal or repressive impediments of any kind. I insist that Elkarrekin We can welcome this initiative. The Basque Parliament, with its legal personality, together with the Parliament of Catalonia and with the law that is already in the Bureau, can make the debate quick, that the suffering of many families is over, that the debate is good, that it is deep and that it has little courtesy, that it is broad, from the point of view that the rights that are recognized are not difficult to access them. I have nothing more to say. In principle, we would like this matter, which has already taken a long time, to decriminalise the right to euthanasia and assisted suicide, to be a reality within the framework of the Spanish State and, therefore, within the framework of Euskadi, in the near future. We welcome and support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u11	Thank you, Mr. Uria. There are no reverse shifts, so... [[Pause]] Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote about whether the legal proposition is considered in detail or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 28; the contrary, 43; the white, 0; abstainments, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u12	So it's not a question of legal proposal. Next, we'll go to the vote. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u13	Thank you, President; lehendakari, councillor, councillor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and to all. Well, we have opposed the consideration of this proposal for a law to be dealt with as a legislative initiative before the General Courts, on a substantive and also on formal issues. As far as the substance is concerned, my group makes an approach – which we have done or which we usually do, traditionally – to help live as a priority, and that our efforts, and the efforts of society and the efforts of the public authorities, are concentrated there: that the work of health, of social services, of society, be to help live, to give value to life always. That is our priority, and that is the initial approach we are taking on this issue, of course without neglecting the dignity of people in the final process of life of course, as we have also valued through legal instruments and laws that we have adopted in this Basque Parliament. And for this, the public system, moreover, every day has been endowed with better means, possibilities... in that transition of people. Laws, courses, professional people, try to guarantee it every day, that dignity in the final process of life – we have verified it – every day more perfected. On the other hand, we do not share that approach of euthanasia, and less so through a proposal of law as ill-conceived and well-founded as this. To underpin debates like this, there must be very rigorous work, which this initiative does not have. Moreover, we do not share the vision of life and death that EH Bildu has, which the proponents of this initiative have. We have voted against it, because we believe it is a bad initiative; it is an opportunistic initiative, incorrectly drafted, from a regrettable legislative technique, and with a political pretence that we do not share. This initiative is a piece of legislation, which could not be accepted for consideration, of course, in any case. The Bureau's analysis seems to us to be somewhat surreal in its admission to this initiative or this type of initiative, which is based not only on an article or a request for amendment, but on many requests which are a procedure other than a proposal for a law; but, in any case, there it is, and that debate we have here, and we have had the opportunity to oppose it. In addition, the tenderers have had and have – that you will remember and know – a way to promote legislative reforms of the Criminal Code or the approach and impulse of new laws through your group in the General Courts – they will have had the opportunity to do so; they will be able to continue to do so – and not, of course, this totum revolutionutum With the excuse of a new wording for article 143.4 of the Criminal Code, there is a very poor wording, which seems more like a non-normal or ordinary law proposal, of which we debate so often, than a legal precept. The provisions spell out a lack of consensus among the Spanish Government, which is not substantiated, which is not justified and which, moreover, is ill-conceived. Someone spoke in the rostrum before it was a complex and delicate issue – one of the speakers said in favour of it – because it is quite the opposite of what this initiative does: a subject so complex and delicate treats it with a frivolity, of course, that it is pathetic to see and see how someone can deal with such a complex issue, so delicate and with so much legal, ethical, philosophical, biological debate... This way. Debates that are developed today, moreover, by the doctrine, by the university, by the academy, by the legal, by the philosophical, by the biological... Today, with a high degree of frivolity, the proposers tried to raise it as if it were a simple question of minority, a question of competition, a question of administrative competence... No, no, Questions such as these do not arise in this way, and, logically, I say this again: for a fundamental reason, the first one I have explained, and for a matter of form, it is impossible that we could have voted in favour. My group – Madam President, I conclude – has a position of defence of life, in this and in many other aspects and many matters. And also a position of rigour and seriousness in the political approaches proposed to this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u14	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u15	Good morning, everyone. "This law aims to give a legal, systematic, balanced, guaranteed response to a sustained demand from today's society such as euthanasia." It could be the beginning of the initiative presented to this Parliament; but no, it is not. What I am reading to you is how the explanatory statement of the proposed Organic Law on the Regulation of Euthanasia that has been registered in the Congress of Deputies by the Socialist Group and that was taken into consideration in the Chamber on June 26, 2018, with the votes in favour of the Socialist Group, Podemos, Citizens, Esquerra, Basque Nationalists and the Mixed Group; among this Joint Group, were the votes of EH Bildu. 208 votes in favour to regulate euthanasia, compared to 133 noes. The Congress of Deputies and at the request of the Socialist Group are therefore already going to discuss a law which includes, among its provisions, the amendment of article 143.4 of the Criminal Code. That has been the fundamental reason why our vote was negative for the consideration of this initiative in the General Courts. It's a no to the form; but, under no circumstances, it's a no to the bottom. We consider the initiative unnecessary, first of all because it would also be a slower formula than the one that will produce the debate in the Congress of Deputies itself. The speaker from Podemos said: there is already a proposal currently under discussion, and there, in the Congress of Deputies, we will need to reach a consensus, because we share the Socialists who, for some time now, are attending a wide social and political debate on the rights and guarantees of all people to health and social care at the end of their lives, which respects their autonomy and the right to a death without suffering, a dignified death. A debate that has been joined by another on the right of people, who, without being in a process of imminent death, decide, because of their disability or suffering, to seek help to die in advance, which we all know as the regulation of euthanasia. The Socialists consider that, for a long time, there has been a social and political will and a constitutional and legal endorsement to legislate this right in Spain, because we consider it to be a right, a right that further extends the rights of citizens. And so do we on the election program. And, in compliance with that electoral programme, we present a legislative initiative to the competent body, which is the Congress of Deputies, with the intention of responding, in a calm, shared and serious way, to the social demand that citizens make us for the legal regulation of euthanasia. It is a regulation – and you know it, Mrs Ubera – that goes far beyond simply amending an article of the Criminal Code, because the fundamental issue in this regulation is to provide it with sufficient guarantees. The regulation that will finally be adopted in the Congress of Deputies, which will be made during this parliamentary term – it is not for you to have the slightest doubt – must ensure that the decision of the person requesting euthanasia is autonomous, pressure-free, informed and sustained over time, and that it is not due to circumstances that have more to do with a lack of dignified conditions, medical, social or family, in order to be able to face this situation. The Socialists – and you know it – have worked intensively and conscientiously, for many months, to draw up and present before the Congress of Deputies a proposal for an organic law, to promote a new conquest of civil rights and freedoms and citizens, and to ensure that it is done from the seriousness and technical rigour that a regulation like this must have. The Socialists have opted for a systematic, orderly and guaranteed regulation of the assumptions on which euthanasia lies without giving rise to criminal reproach, with sufficient guarantees. There are 22 articles, five additional provisions, three final provisions, much more than what has been proposed here today, which is the amendment of a section of article 143 of the Criminal Code, which is, of course, also included in that proposal that is before the Congress of Deputies. That is why we have not supported EH Bildu's initiative. There are no party interests; there is no other issue. It is simply an issue of effectiveness, of debate, with a rule or with budgets much more worked than those brought here today, with a more concrete, more systematic, more guarantee and more complete option than the initiative presented to this Parliament. Mrs Ubera, the Socialists have received the votes of your group in the debate. We really hope that, after your processing, we can also receive the votes of EH Bildu for the final adoption of the law in the Congress of Deputies, and so do what you have also said here, which is finally being able to regulate one more right for our citizenship. I conclude with the same wish that has been said, and it is that I wish our colleagues in the Congress of Deputies, like all yours, to have a good debate, a calm debate, a deep debate, and to end with a better law, to extend the rights of the citizens so that they can decide on their life and on their death.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Madam Arriega, Eubertarian patriots, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, good morning to all. EH Collect Parliamentary Teams, to the use of the legal proposition for the Courts of the Common-wealth, that is to say, of the change of Article 143.4 of the Criminal Law on the Code, we have voted negatively this day. And we don't vote for a negative because we don't agree with the substance. We agree with the necessity of the right to secure a good death and to create a life of quality, of determination, of autonomy, as in the course of life, in order to make sure of it. The Jeltistic Party had already taken up our attitude in the programme of the general elections of 2016, for the achievement of a worthy end of life, and for the attainment of society, and the profound and severe deliberations which society has to do, as well as legally, to support the subject from certain principles. And what are these principles? In the first place, that all men, when they are acquainted with their disease, have the right to be a complete or integrated palial attention; secondly, that this attention must be universal and accessible, both in the sociation of the fields, and in the housing; that three, whether to remove or not to begin any treatment, must be the right of all persons, and be based on being all information, alternatives, consequences, &c., and four, to set down in a particular way the disquisitions of suicide, which is previously established. Hau horrella, lehen erritizentziak izango genituzke EH Bilduk aurkezturiko ekimenarekin, artikulu Bakar bezala Zigor Kodearen 143.4 artikulua aldatzea proposedzen baitu. That is, the original initiative bets on decriminalization without any previous regulation. It only proposes decriminalisation of the type referred to in Article 143.4. And what about the other points that accompany this article? They also describe types and impose penalties, with direct reference to both inducement to suicide and cooperation as necessary acts for suicide. We understand that decriminalisation should be carried out on the one hand, but always accompanied by supposed regulators, with specific requirements and guarantees on the other. The doctrine of the European Court of Human Rights, in its judgment of 14 May 2013, Gross v. Switzerland, considered that it is not acceptable for a country that has decriminalized euthanasia to have not developed and promulgated a legal regime. That is why we understand, as we have already said from the Basque Nationalist Party, that minimum issues should be addressed, that should accompany decriminalization, and that a legal framework should be established that offers due legal guarantees and conditions for the exercise of the right to a dignified death. Also, it is remarkable that the imperfections which the text presents from a formal legal point of view, in order to give the Government an opinion on the consideration of it. This being so, we cannot forget, nor, as Mrs. Castel said, that we shall have a proposition on the table of organic law, in order to regulate eucanasia in Congress. We find then no sense in presenting any enterprise to our Chambers in front of the Supreme Courts, when the Parliament, who has a right to regulate this subject, will be able to regulate it in an integral manner, by avoiding the jurists, and securing the legal security. And this is a reality. Honengatik guztiagatik, ezezko botoa eman diugu aintzat-hartzeari, edukian bath form aldetik desegokia ikusi baitugu, gure pardearentzat garrantzitsuak diren eremuak kanpoan utziz. I am sure it is a wish of everyone here to find the best solution to this very transcendental question of life, which is death, the suffering it brings for one and for those around you to want to die for not being able to live, and not being able to do so. During these days I found a poem, a poem from Ramon's Sampedro, Cudodo yo caiga "When I fall, as the ripe fruit of the tree of life, leave me there, where I fall, that the sun may embrace me, and the wind and the moon, that life may devour me after biting..." Eta honela bukatzen du: "So, when I fall, let me fall, to return to life where I fall." I am sure, if it be not here, we shall get in the proper place those who have fallen into the same place where they have fallen back to life, who have given them all legal and firm security. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Second point on the subject list: "Mortion, introduced by the Congressman of the Home of Pello Urizar Karque, as the Congressmen of the House of Representatives, concerning Catalan prisoners. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Urizar, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u19	Thank you... Good morning to all. This passion is due to an interpelation introduced on the 31st of May, where I plainly explained that we lived in a state of anxiety against the political and social representatives of Catalonia. Because we clearly see that the whole process has been full of irregularity, and consequently the rights of the process have not been confirmed. But above all, because this judicial process has shown a clear intention of destroying political conflict, or because, in other words, these people who have been processed are representatives, as many as thousands and thousands of people in Catalonia intend to prevent it. Before a peaceful and democratic political process, the powers of the Spanish State have decided to employ police, judges, and prisons: they have resolved to make use of all sorts of violence which are in their power in peace. It's a serious subject, as far as the watering of personal rights, but even if we consider the watering of political rights, as Amnistia is expressed by the International, or by the organization of the United Nations, and that's why we believe... I know it's a bit heavy for some people to bring this subject here and there, but we think it's worth accusing of such dives like that, and over and over again from this Chamber. But, besides this, it is also serious that the State of Spain has decided to send a clear political message, a message for Catalonia, but no doubt a message for the Basque people: our peoples, neither one nor the other, have no right to decide, and beyond the rules and limits marked by the Spanish Constitution, there is no possibility. 21st but as we have seen it well, the only question is, that they will endeavour to make this clear, even with the sentence of the sentence of the sentence, for the experience of all the rebels. It is in our power to decide whether we will accept foreign frames, or whether we will form them ourselves. It is in our power to determine what kind of relation we desire in this world, where there is more and more relation within this reality. We admit that we live in a relational world, but we must depend on what kind of relations we must have to mark; a dependency, or the ability to guarantee the future of our country, and the means to find solutions. It's there, after all, the trick: To create or build a just socially advanced society, to decide the policies which will answer our own situation and our own concerns, and to have all our resources and instruments in our hands. The foundations of the new state, supported in the auto-generacy, fix a clear direction in this sense: the relation of the members of the community to the will of the community will be fixed, as well as to the internal relations of the Basque Country, but also to those who are looking out. The mutual relation and respect of the like, because communion cannot be built in another way, because communion cannot be imposed. The new state will also allow us to leave all our jurisdictions in the hands of the proper institutions, and thus to give the best solution to the affairs. Target and path, lights: to respect the decision of society by negotiation and agreement. And that must be, as I have just said, the logical part of the 21st. In Europe, and in this way, the United Kingdom, and Denmark have gone, when they answered the demands taken within their own State: they have, by default, given an engagement to respect the will of the people, as well as not to Spain. The Spanish State has a problem with the nations within it, and if it is intended to solve it, or the nation accepts a respectful relation of the Colony to that kind of treatment, or it must choose everywhere, or choose force and disposition, but for these times it ought to know that this will not be the case. In history there are many examples that have been attempted to dominate our country, if we observe what so many historical writings say: Long is it: From the time of the Romans, from the Middle Ages, or from the War of Carlists or the 20. it is because of the Spanish Civil War of the sixteenth century that our people have suffered attacks and impeachments. A more recent instance of the problem is inserted in the Spanish Constitution, where the Spanish nation is admitted as a single nation, and the latter as a nationality. And what is the result of all these efforts? We're in 2019. Has the national feeling disappeared? Is he going to disappear? Because of not seeing it, the problem won't go away. If the path of consent be rejected, history also shows us that some moment will come, where some opportunity will appear, and, when this opportunity appears, if there is no way of consent, it will take advantage, as other nations have shown in history, as Ireland, Baltic republics, or Balcanic republics. And what happened in Catalonia was that after all: For it has been an imperfection, state Thus, in 2005, in the Parliament of Catalonia, a new state was admitted, and in 2006 it was refracted or confirmed, by refeendum from the society of Catalonia. It lasted a short time, but... The appeal on the side of the Pontilian Party was introduced into the Constitutional Court, and in 2010 there was once more one of the last accused, in which it was evident that the 14 articles were contrary to the Constitution, and it was said clearly how the other 27 should be interpreted, and of course it took away or denied the national character or national authority. The path established by the Spanish legislation was used in the State of Catalonia. And that was the Procés of Catalonia. Catalan has sought to make it a rebellion to ask what future they desire, and to destroy a democratic and extremely peaceful process, they have tried to invent the use of violence: Of all other things, it has evidently been a political invention. Unluckily, in the Basque Country, they have been judged by the notorious political judicialization of which we are accustomed, and have applied all the measures required for it, as the Amnistia Internationala and the Penitentiary of the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations have been expressed. Catalonia Procés Until we have respected the rights of nations without a state, we shall have a problem, and the remedy will never be an act of violence, I repeat to them that common life cannot be acquired by argument. I have already said the way: negotiation and agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u20	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u21	Thank you. Good morning, congressmen. It's the tenth time today of Catalonia's meeting. I understand that it was the first time that the trial began, and now that the trial or at least is over, I shall not be very long. And besides, most things have been said badly, or at least I have said so. I shall begin to say that we will not refuse the proposition of the Basque People, but shall not assent to it, because there are so many points that we do not agree, or at least that our view is different. And I think this will be the first explanation I shall give: If we take the first point, it is the question of Catalonia's quarrel with the State, and our opinion has always been the same: It is not a quarrel or dispute with the State, but a quarrel with the governments which have been in Spain, and a quarrel with the different political positions, because I think and because we believe that my party believes in a pliant state, and because I am sure, for example, that if Unidas Podemos was in the government, this quarrel would be on the way of remedy either by conversation or by legality, and I shall speak later on about it. And therefore knowing that there are other opinions in the state, and that there are millions of persons, there are other opinions, this dispute is political, but political amongst governments, and, in this case, political; In the second place, the suspension of the trial is required, and, in fact, to get these people out of prison. Well, we've already talked here about release. We have supported release; in our amendment we also talk about release, and then I will talk about it. But it is true that, despite the fact that it seems and has always seemed to us that this trial should not have been held, that political issues should not be brought to justice, that the existence of this trial only deepens a political wound that exists in Catalonia and that must be resolved by political means, that we from the legislative branch call for the suspension of a trial seems to us to be an interference in the separation of powers, and we do not believe that this should be something that should be approved by a parliament, despite – I repeat – that for Elkarrekin We can as a political formation, the existence of this trial should not be, and it does nothing more than prevent the solution of a political problem. Finally, the development of all political projects by democratic and peaceful means is legitimate, and what must be respected, in our opinion, are the rights that any citizen has to defend a political project, that any citizen has, collectively, to demand changes in the territorial structure of the State, to demand an update of the territorial structure of the State, to resolve political conflicts in territorial terms, which is what we are talking about here today. And that is precisely what we also understand that Elkarrekin Podemos has to work and what we have been working for a long time and what we believe should be demanded of the Government of Spain, in this case: that he should be courageous and have the capacity to open the process necessary to update the territorial structure of the State to a plurinational reality, which we admit, which we understand and which, more than ever, has been shown to be reflected in how the territories are articulated in the State. In the end, what we intend, when we talk about this topic, is that it's about putting a little wisdom on it: fine-tuning a little bit more in the diagnosis, being more objective, seeing what independent agents are saying about this issue as well... And, well, if what this is about today is to show a clear position on the release of these prisoners or on the opinion of this Parliament on the holding of this trial, on the erroneous holding of this trial and on the fact that people who should not be in prison for exercising their political rights, we believe that our amendment is perfectly valid for that, and what we are doing is asking you to vote for it. Because it would repeat and repeat a position that was already – I believe it was in February this year – adopted in this Parliament on the trial. En statuses enmidas, ninostros siemprem hacemos referencia a organenacioles derechos human como Amnacola, a mecanism ese system de Naciones Unidas, como el Altomissionado; you have also made references like this. And why do we do this? Well, because for a very simple thing, because we believe that at one moment, when party positions are held to be naturally, or when white or black are seen at certain times, or for instance, that an institution such as the Judicial Power must make an effort to be independent, and not to become respectable in the Hooli of a block. And, of course, if what we are talking about is also about these people deprived of their liberty, we cannot avoid today, from the political discrepancy with the process. And what we have always said here today: the judicialization of politics does not solve anything and cannot be the axis on which to face the Catalan challenge; that the people imprisoned in the process And, I repeat, we strongly affirm: the pre-trial detention of the leaders of the trial But, in conclusion, the political position of conversation and distribution is rather the political position which we wish to place here, and a conversation which is necessary to establish a foundation in our opinion, in order that the citizens of Catalan should have a democratic mechanism around their future, a mechanism of agreement, a transversal agreement, because we believe that, together, Podemos believes that they are of no use in such political circumstances, partly because the majority of the majority, and partly of the majority, on the other hand, do not deny the agreement to lock this state for ever. I think it's important to say that things can't be done in any way. And looking at Catalonia, if we come in the Euskula, I think we have some lessons. You talked about living and living together. In our opinion, too, when we hold on to a democratic principle, the mechanism of determining must be carried forward. But to decide and to live is never to be separated, and when they are separated, things don't work. And you can decide if you don't create a social break. And that to do this we must create legal and athletic means to solve the political problem of Catalan. And for that purpose there is a clabe to decide without social rupture: if questioned, the questions are clear, the guarantees of democracy for all parts, and the highly qualified and strengthened majority for any decision. You can't do things in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u22	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing in the district of teams that have no corrections, the Euskal Popular, Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President; Mr Lehendakari, Councillors, good morning to you all, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Urizar, you have come up this morning – this is not the first time you have done so in this or in previous legislatures – to talk to us about political prisoners in a democratic and rule of law state. On this occasion, you are referring to a number of people who are being prosecuted in the Supreme Court – not in the National Court, as is said here in some amendment, in this same case, but in the Supreme Court – by the commission of a number of facts, which, in the light of what is the current and applicable criminal law, could constitute crimes, and we are already awaiting a judgment. You to these people today, come here and tell us or call them political prisoners; you have previously done so with other groups of people, you and the group you represent, of which you act as spokesperson. And he has called us political prisoners to excruciating murderers, people of the vilest and tracer we have ever had, who have committed the most horrific crimes, who have extorted and destroyed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, and those angels, who had a series of convictions pending to serve, in many cases numerous, with great prison sentences, proportional to the barbarity of the acts they had committed, were for you, "political prisoners." So, when today you call political prisoners a number of gentlemen, and you used to call the others, me, honestly, I get a little nauseous, if I may. But that is a personal opinion, that is, I have not considered you especially legitimized or that it is a very valid argument to speak of each other, calling them, in the same way, political prisoners. But this is not a matter of defending my personal beliefs, but of trying to convince the rest of the members of the House to vote against the motion that you brought us here today. That's why I'm going to try to dig deeper into that idea: I start from the premise that a system or a country or a place that maintains the existence of political prisoners is not a democratic place. That is, it is a country where democracy does not fully exist. And, as I do think, and when I got up this morning I thought about what I wanted to say here today, and I am sure and agreed that I live in democracy, I do not understand the presence of political prisoners, as you say, within our system. Our system is democratic. You, like me, have been elected at the polls, in a free and democratic process, elected by the citizens, within a legal system that has brought us here and allows us to exercise those rights that the citizens have given us to make a political speech, a legislative speech and a task of control to the government. And you, in this democratic state in which you live, come up here and say that democracy does not exist and that there are political prisoners, when you know it is a lie. And you say that ideas are being judged, that ideologies are being judged, that political projects are being judged, even – I'm not sure if you said it today in the rostrum, but I've heard it some other time – that a people is being judged in this legal process. And you know that's all a lie. You are not the one to come up here to tell us that this prisoner is political, this prisoner is not political, this prisoner is provisional and this prisoner has to be many more years in prison than those who have fallen, because those are not our powers, as members of a legislative body – I understand that – democratically elected and that we exercise our rights within a legal system given by citizens; whether you like it or not you like it, but that is the reality. And that's the reality we live in. It is true that the most important criminal legal process that has been experienced throughout the democracy of this country is being held – and only the process of drafting, approving and issuing judgements remains – and this process is being carried out through a series of acts, not ideologies. You tell us about a political conflict and that they are judged by that political conflict. You know that's not true. Concrete facts, acts committed by persons are being judged; because no political party is being judged, no institution is being judged, no attitudes or ideologies are being judged in this procedure; what is being judged are facts. Acts committed by persons who held certain positions in civic organizations or democratically elected institutions, and who may have been able, in the view of the allegations of the procedure, to bypass what is the current legal order. And, as we live in a rule of law, he who commits an act that is contained in the Penal Code, which is defined and which is contrary to the law, because he has to pay the consequences; whether he likes it or not he likes it. And, then, as you do not like how our rule of law works and how that trial has been held, from my point of view, with all the procedural guarantees that the citizens have given us and that on other occasions we extrude them, we demand them, when we are interested, but on this occasion we hide them... a trial, I insist, which has been conducted with all kinds of procedural guarantees, we have to go to certain reports, to certain claims of international bodies. Look, the two spokespersons, both Mr Martínez and you, have referred to a United Nations report. That is not a United Nations report. Let us not be wrong; let us call things by their name. That is a partial report that has been submitted to an agency. A partial report, so that we can all understand each other, is the one I contract to defend my interests, and I pay – in this case, quite, at a rather high price – to defend my interests. That is neither an independent body nor an objective report; it is a report of part. And look, that report on the part tries to analyze the political and legal situation of the Spanish State; it tries to analyze the situation of persons who are in provisional detention, and it does not make the slightest hint of approaching the regulation of provisional detention in Spain and whether or not the requirements required by law are met, because if that prison is excessive, it is arbitrary, it is unnecessary... who decides it in a democratic and legal system like ours are the courts. And here they have already said, that provisional detention is perfectly adequate, because article 503 of the Criminal Procedure Act says that one of the fundamental issues on which the interim measure of provisional detention may be taken in criminal proceedings is precisely to prevent the escape of the accused, the accused, the accused, the investigated, to prevent the escape... And from the group of people who are being tried in the Supreme Court they are not all, because half of them have gone away: they have fled, courageously, like heroes, in the trunk of a car, and are dancing abroad doing ridiculously, but they do not have the gallantness and courage to appear and sit in front of a court to judge them for their deeds. Of course, the rest of the comrades are in temporary detention to avoid that risk of escape, which is not a baladi risk, but a certain risk. It's just that there are a few who have run away, and as they have run away to prevent that from being endemic and the others from disappearing, these gentlemen have had to be kept in prison. So, I'm telling you that this measure may be fair or not fair, but it's rightfully adjusted. And that's not just what I say; it's what the Spanish courts say, and caray!, something that has been forgotten to both of you, the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights has said. He has made it clear, and he has said that the prison measure is correct and that it is in accordance with the law, and has therefore rejected one of the claims of one of the persons prosecuted in that procedure. But I have gone a long way on the subject of prisoners, and I have left, possibly, the fundamental argument: Mr. Urizar, look, I think that, given the rationale you make of the motion you bring us here today, we have an idea – and it was something I was already supposed to – of what democracy is quite different. Let a parliamentarian who belongs to a legal political group, within a perfectly constituted legislative and political body within the democratic channels, in a modern democratic state, come up here and say that we must urge a judicial procedure to be suspended: you from the legislative urge, and also you do not say to whom. We do not know whether this procedure has to be suspended, whether it is temporary or definitively, whether it has to be done by the Supreme Court officers, the judges of the Supreme Court, it has to be done by the Government of the nation, it has to be done by the lehendakari – who we normally urge political issues from this rostrum – who is urged to suspend judicial proceedings. As Mr Martínez has rightly said, that is interference, and that is more typical of an organic democracy than of a modern democratic system like ours, perhaps because you like organic democracies more than modern democratic systems, such as the one we live in and the one we defend the rest of the groups from this rostrum. That is why we are going to vote against your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u25	Good morning. For, Mr Urizar, as the Socialists had already predicted, this debate was to be expected; nothing that surprised us precisely. This Parliament has already opened the trial of the That's what Euskal Herria Bildu is repeatedly doing, a parallel trial from the Legislature. That is the main flaw that has – as Mr Arbulo has already said – this proposal on your part. And they do so with all their protocol: with assessment of evidence, accepting or rejecting arguments of witnesses, of some yes, of others not... Finally, an example of the model that the abertzale left has to offer to this country in relation to the independence of powers. Nor does it seem to me that you are here to give many lessons to the Basque people. Go ahead, because then in the debate we are distracted by other things, which the Socialist Group reiterates, as it has done on every occasion that the opportunity has been raised, that we recognize that in Catalonia, which is an extraordinarily plural society, like ours, there is a political problem, of course, and of coexistence, and that it is a problem within Catalonia. And that these problems must be resolved by the representatives elected by the citizens, through a procedure of negotiation, pact, processing and approval, with the utmost consensus, following the legal rules and procedures in force. Nothing that does not exist in any democratic country in the world, something that does not characterize the action that is taking neither the current Government of the Generalitat nor the previous one, because, less pact, agreement and attempt to get closer to other groups, there has been anything. Well, and we want to reiterate once again that, in addition to this internal problem that exists in Catalonia, which exists although many of the so-called independenceists permanently deny it, there is also a serious problem of relationship between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, as there may be with other autonomous communities, as there may be with Galicia, with the Basque Country, with Extremadura, with Murcia, which will also require political representatives, at different levels, which I do not want to compare, to be able to renew the agreement that allows a better territorial articulation, which will perfect the model of success that has been the development of decentralized Spain so far. That is why we want to reiterate that these problems are not going to be solved – it is true – in the judicial sphere – we already know this – but neither by disregarding the laws, as many of you do, nor the rules, nor the decisions taken by the courts, even if you do not like the decisions, because that is the basic principle of a rule of law, which you claim to be building in only part of the territory. And so far the socialist position... And it is not that we minimize or feel politically alien to the judgment that has been held in recent times. That judgment is going to have political derivatives; what we don't know is which: neither do we nor do the proponents know... Man, what you can't say is that the trial isn't being transparent. It is being transmitted in strict direct to everyone who wants to see it; therefore, there is nothing to hide, there is nothing to hide, there is nothing to say; it may or may not seem right to them the strategy of the accusations or the defense, but not that the situation is hidden. What we do not know is whether or not we will comply with what the courts establish, whatever it is, and without prejudice to the right of everyone to appeal wherever he or she considers it. Because, if we have any reflection at the end of this oral hearing, it is not that of a media chat, in which we each give our opinion, without more than that, about what each accused, every defence, every accusation or every witness has said. If for something to serve this debate, for something that overcomes the mere replica of arguments, it is for one to make the reflection of "good, and after this trial, what?, what do we do?". Because, of course, and by staying with something final, there are defendants who once proclaimed that they only have to obey the people, as if the people were a very important, huge part of the Catalans – it is almost half, but it does not arrive – and in the final stage of the trial they admitted, yes, that they had disobeyed but only a little bit, point it out nothing more. In short, or even they said that it had been a whole joke, that it had no consequences, that they did not know what could happen; in the end, everything was heard, because we were able to hear it and see everyone. But perhaps we should think, if they had not begun to disobey knowing that they did, if they had begun with something different, if legality had failed, we would probably not be where we are, and what came would not have come. If they had called elections, as they were encouraged and recommended to Mr Puigdemont by multiple actors, including the lehendakari himself, as he has by the way reported as a witness in his own trial, almost nothing would probably have happened after that, and of that must be aware who are sitting right now on the bench and those who are fleeing out of here. And you're still waiting for that political reflection; I'm about to hear from one of those responsible for the so-called mea guilt process. And I'm not even talking about legal defense arguments, there everyone how to exercise it, if they think it's giving a rally in a court, as we've heard some of them, that they do; but the room isn't going to analyze that, it's going to analyze whether or not certain facts occurred, whether or not they were done violently and, if so, who would be responsible for those facts. My group may have a conclusion, but it is not up to us and therefore we are not going to enter into assessments of possible judgments. But we have observed what has happened, like everyone else, without being observers, and we have observed that you, the representatives of PNV and Bildu, have had the opportunity to offer your encouragement to those who are accused right there, in the court, but this trial has been broadcast live, as I said before; it has been counting on thoroughness, and we have all been able to see and hear that a hearing has been held with all the guarantees that are due in a judicial process, and there is no report from any international body anywhere that questions this assertion. That the accused have been able to defend themselves as freely as they have decided, that their status as prisoners has not deprived them of their status as politicians; it is true that they are politicians who are in prison and who have been able to continue exercising their right to stand for elections, to ask citizens again for support to defend the ideas they have, independentists, and only that fact already dismantles the main argument of the proposer. It was well remembered by the Lehendakari in replying to the question that gave rise to this motion, that these people, like Bildu herself, had come to elections, defending the ideas that they wanted to defend, campaigned and acceded to their seats in accordance with the Constitution and continued in the oral hearing until it was over. And it is obvious that it is anomalous, it is true, I recognize it, that there are elected in prison and that they are being prosecuted. It is because it is a democratic anomaly that from the power crimes are mentioned, because they have not done so from any instance, they have done so from the power established in Catalonia, which is what the court has to decide. It's happened to others for other reasons. I said this on the last occasion, one of many that we have discussed about this, and I repeat it today: my group understands the different opinions that can be had on the facts of which it is accused. We can even share the criticisms of a situation of provisional detention; we can understand that all the reflections that are to be made on the decisions taken by the courts, but what we are not going to do is to participate, either actively or passively, in a strategy that pursues something else, to undermine the foundations of the rule of law, questioning a judicial procedure that has shown guarantees by all parties, and that is the livelihood of any model of coexistence. As Mr Arbulo reminded you, on the complaint of one of the defendants, the European Court of Human Rights has said that it does not even admit the complaint, because it understands that all the legal requirements for the conduct of that trial have been met, right? And I, of these international observers or rapporteurs whom you mentioned, remind me of that United Nations rapporteur who used to come for Euskadi when ETA was still killing in this country and never met with the Socialists, the people of the People's Party or the victims. He met with only one party and then made a report from one side, such as the one that had been made by that so-called United Nations agency. In any case, we want to end up demanding our commitment to respect, dialogue, negotiation, the pact, plurality and legality. And we want to continue to do what is in our hands so that from our governments, from the governments of Euskadi or from those who are opening up in parliaments and municipalities, there is not the slightest temptation to drag the population into the very dangerous path that Catalan independence has taken to its society. We're good for yesterday, for today, and it's the same thing that's going to be good for the future. It seems to us to be a matter of principle; that is why we are going to vote against your proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u26	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u27	Good morning. Well, it's true that strange things happen in this life and even in the Supremes, because at the same time two things have been seen in the Supreme Being: one, the trial of Catalonia mentioned, and the other in the adjoining room, is the difficulty of pulling Franco's body out of the ground. And that's where we've seen the Supreme Court still confessing to Franco. Then there was a curious question: On the one hand, the fact that Franco's body was forbidden to be removed from the ground, and on the other, that, by giving the people the word, they had made a coup of the state by catalans who are accused of it. That's a funny thing. The action which has been introduced tells two or three subjects, and it is true there is a political question, and that this political question has an historical origin and a political character, which Catalonia has in Spain. And it's not news, I'll talk about something later. Baita ére, ordezkari politiciko eta sozial hauek audipetuak izan say the ezbairik gabe auziak bultzada politicikoa izan zuelako. Hain zuzen ere, Sáenz de Santamaría anderek berak esan zuen, politicokoki, "let's decapitate leaders of Catalan sovereignism and liquidate independence", eta jartzen dira ekimenak martxan, éta zutabe nagusia, epaiket osoan ikusi den bezala, zutabe nagusia da Guardia Zibilak egindako txosten bat. Gero, hortik armati da guztia, bainsa bultzada politicokoa izan zuen horrek. To liquidate independence and to defuse leaders of sovereignism. In a way of disbelief, of course. And that is why an exemplary sentence is now expected, so that no one has even temptation, no doubt, from where political development can or cannot go. And then it is said, at the third point, that the rights of nations and nations ought to be respected, that they must be acknowledged, and moreover that, as long as they are used by peaceful and political ways, all political projects must be capable of doing so. And I think we agree with this. One thing. I mentioned last time in a debate, but now it's about 87 years in May, that the Hace 87 años, in the Spanish courts, in the time of the Republic, was discussing the State of Catalonia. And there was a discussion, and the other Manuel Azamat says: "Para resolver el insistata, es necessari rectifica; no hemos sabido me asimilar I am integrated into Cataluña." Bath have badauka beast bat wasntzuten, age Ortega and Gasset zen. Eta hark esaten du: "The Catalan problem cannot be solved; it can only be carried out", and there arises the Orteguian association, that theory that is still applicable. That is to carry, endure, tolerate, but not resolve. One asks to rectify, because they have not been able to assimilate or integrate. The other one asks to carry. Why? Because he understands that sovereignty is unique, indivisible, non-plotable and only emanates from the State. Therefore, Catalonia would have to be bound by that attitude. Ez da beriria, and in the debate we had here on this subject, there was a point that was also approved in this Parliament, where we said where a possible solution should go: "The Basque Parliament states that the judicialization of politics, far from offering solutions, enquistaes, blocks and hinders them. The political conflict arising from the relationship between the Spanish State and Catalonia must find a solution that is dialogued and negotiated through political and democratic channels. Parliament therefore urges the different powers of the Spanish State to respect the people of Catalonia, the people who make up it, their individual and collective rights, and the decisions freely and democratically taken on their political future." Hori da bidea, to move from the attitude to respect, to move from the attitude to coexistence: to respect the existence of different political subjects. And there's no other way. There's no other way... The trial is over, and we'll see how Marche himself writes his sentence and what the living man decides, but it's clear. That there's been transparency? Yes, of course. Thank goodness! Why there is no comparison, taken in the case of accusations, and then about the evidence and the subjects which have at least appeared there. No, there's no agency. We shall see what solution or judgment the Supremes write in this case; but if we appeal to political matters, it is evident that there is no solution, no solution, if there is no confession of this national nature, conllevancia. To do this, we must all act under equal conditions. For here it is often said, that we, too, preach the dialogue of the Combats, but only in the legality of the time, that there is no equal condition between the interviews, that you start from this superiority of the state, and that you need the conditions of equality in order to achieve a life, and that is what is lacking here at this time. Hence we think that in Catalonia, like the age of 87, the rest of the places, the new state, and the rest of them, are to be taken up again by the way of conversation, but a conversation established on the foundations of equality. The rules of equality are necessary, conditions, and therefore the steps which have been taken in Catalonia have been entirely democratic, the steps given by peaceful paths, and all the decisions which have been made have been made, not only because they have been admitted in the legislature, but because years have elapsed before a vast majority of elections, by the hand of cataults, will apply their right to decide. And this is the way: This is the way of the solution: cllvancia
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u28	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the answers, Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u29	Thank you, ma'am. Well, I was convinced that it would be easier to find some common points here than with others, and that with others there would be no surprises in that sense. I'd tell Mr Martínnez... Even on his day, when we talked, being the only ones who introduced a correction, you told me that there was not so much quarrel with the state as with the government. We think he's with the state and he's justified. It is true that governments hitherto, whether of a colour or of another colour, have proceeded by the same way; but it is not only for us, but for us, that government, or power, are all in the same sense. And if the Common-wealth have three Powers divided, and all Power are in the same sense; the problem is with the state, the problem is not only with the government. I will not take away your will, or your will, in which, if Podemos were to take the care of the Spanish Government together, it would be otherwise; but I assure you, the main question would be in the other powers of the state, and would be in the State, because it is not enough to change the frame which we now have in our possession of the Government. I'll tell you more: As the regime of 78 is constituted, this is adopted by a notorious political majority in Spain, and they are at ease. To change this government of 78, I think it will be forced to do so by the means of the nation. You're the only one who've come to me, and Mr. Arbulus and Mr. Pastor have also said that he ought to respect the distribution of powers in a way, and then that he doesn't have to ask from the legislature what to do to other powers, but it's true that it's because I reply to Monsieur Arbulus that this is very convenient for me to face; As Mr. Egibar said, this trial was politically marked by PP's government and showed its way. If this be not to say what they ought to do to other powers, and I think that when it is said from the Spanish Government, I have more occasion for it than to say from here. But I must admit, Mr. Arbulus, that I thought you were going to go into another kind of discussion. I was really hoping you'd be able to get any further. I expected more, because, if I have attempted anything, it has been plain that the process has been peaceful, that the process has been a democratic process, that the process has been in a very careful manner, and that you have come again, as a member of the Party often does, to beat the phantoms of the past, and to throw them into the hands of the political prisoners. Political prisoners are those who have proclaimed their rights in a peaceful and democratic manner, and have been employed in proclaiming those rights. And you're entitled to it, but I think you've behaved in a nasty way, and I was hoping for another level. From this point on, I think we ought to see two things clearly, and there is the question in the whole discussion: You keep telling us all political projects are legitimate, but you don't explain what's possible for us to carry on. And, as Mr. Egg has said, you plan it from a suffrage or a view of power, saying that we have more power in the Spanish frame, we have more votes, and so we plan in what frame. They might do the same in Britain or Denmark, but they have decided to use other ways from the course of democracy, to give them the choice of the democracy, and to give them permission if political, democratic, and peaceful projects are democratic. And this is a democratic will which is not seen here beyond the political frames, because I think there is a political problem, and how the substance is assured of its co-existence. You didn't answer there. You said the legal frame, you said who has legal rights, but you didn't tell me how to guarantee a partnership. And it's only a guarantee of co-existence, if we all express the will to live together. If we express our will to live together. If it is proposed, no co-operation is guaranteed. There must be some obligation, because it must necessarily be done. But when it happens, sooner or later...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u30	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u31	And Euscala is an old story. Sooner or later, the problem will go on again. So how can I guarantee a partnership? How can we guarantee our agreement? There's the key.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u32	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u33	Mr. Pello Urizar. I think the proposal you brought today, and the proposal you proposed three months ago, the proposition which Mrs. I understand that he wants to build a narrative in which the state has a problem, and that the state is dreble, he has no means of changing, and he alone goes.... Or that your project will repair the state's problem of building everything; but, as I have often said, we have not this view, because we believe that, in a moment, the Spanish Government will change, and that the Judicial Power requires change, and that the National Audence and Supreme Court certainly must change. But I think maybe then we should concentrate on the discussion, and we had this argument three months ago. And then another argument is the regime of 78: You said that in Spain with the 78 regime, the people are very happy and quiet and that they don't want any change. Well, if that were the case, Spain wouldn't have had the political crisis today in the last five years, the crisis of political territory, which he's had, because in the end, six years ago, or even 10 years ago, there were two great parties in Congress, and they were, on his day, the most powerful columns of the 78 regime, but today, both the one and the other, it's impossible for the other to be a majority, because they're more numerous than Congress, and for the third party, that was the day of Podemos. And what is likely to show is that there is no such satisfaction or conformism with the regime of 78; it shows that there is not so much of it, and also shows that the quarrel in Catalonia, or the results which we have seen in the last general elections, especially in the Peripferians or nations; but I believe there is a wide spectrum in the State, a vast multitude of votes, millions of persons, who want changes about what has been done in the last forty years of the state, and who, in particular terms, wish change, and in the country, seek the solution of country, and the solution of conversation, and the solution of the country, and the means of conversation between the government and the legal mechanism. So we'll keep going that way. First, as a doubt, our planning is clear: to seek democratic contrivances, to determine legal mechanism, not to separate the mechanism, and not to live together, and to find, together, the necessary contrivances for the discussion in Catalonia, with conversation, co-operation, and the power of deciding, in order that the inhabitants of Catalonia might at last make their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u34	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Urizar, I'm very sorry to have disappointed you; but, look, the truth is that you give for what you give and have what you have, and you have a history and you have principles, and you have beliefs and convictions, and I don't want to take ghosts out of the past, as you said; it's that you carry them in the backpack. If you come here just to talk to us about political prisoners, I close my eyes and see a guy from EH Bildu talking about political prisoners and confusing each other. You disqualify yourself, because, moreover, what you do to them is a weak favor to the people to whom you were referring today, to these gentlemen representatives neither of the Catalan people, nor stories, nor the Catalan people... No, no... They are representatives of themselves in a judicial process, because we are talking about democracy again, not the organic one he likes so much; let's talk about real democracy. And here we are talking all the time about Catalonia, because Catalans... a part of the citizens of Catalonia, have an independent vote. According to Mr Egibar, it is a large majority, which has historically demonstrated that in the ballot box. That is almost like saying that Mr Urkullu's government has a large minority in this Parliament; no: there is one missing. If that is a large majority of the citizens of Catalonia, it is a large minority of the Government. That is to lack the truth, Mr. Egibar; things as they are, as simple as that. I'm sorry; the numbers are what they are... And here you tend to talk all the time about respect for the people of Catalonia. Look, the first thing that certain Catalan politicians have to do is to respect the citizens of Catalonia, because in Catalonia not all citizens are respected, and that is something that we in Euskadi know, have lived and seen, and have suffered. And in Catalonia, a large part of Catalonia's citizenship, of the citizens, is not being respected. The peoples, this of the right of peoples, the right to decide of peoples... Look, the law is citizens', the law is people's; because, if we start with that of those rights of peoples, we end with those concepts of nationalism, of that ancient nationalism of "I am the people and I decide who the people are, under what conditions and what categories of citizens we have within this our people." And that is very dangerous, and, of course, what it is, from my point of view – which I can be logically wrong – is absolutely undemocratic. Legal arguments are raised in a rostrum; legal arguments, rather than political arguments, are required in a judicial procedure. And in that, some have erred, and, instead of hiring or asking her to be defended by lawyers, they have sought rights activists, and have wanted to make a judicial process a political showcase; that is a gross mistake, because in the end it will go against their own rights. But that will be said by the sentence, which, whether we like it or not, in the end, we will have to abide by. I mean... At least I have the custom of obeying the judgments, whether I like it or not I like the reasoning or the judgment that it contains. That is part of the democratic system in which we live and in which I would really like them to learn to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u36	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u37	Well, I'm going to agree, in part, with Mr. Martinez, when he said that that fixed photo that you define of the regime of 78 is not so, as it is not so the fixed photo that you want to put on the Basque Country. It is not true: everything moves, everything is mutable, everything is changeable, and, indeed, there are new realities in Spanish politics and there are also in Basque politics. And, therefore, no one, no one, neither you nor we nor anyone is legitimized to speak on behalf of all, nor of the Basques, nor of the Spanish, nor of course of the Catalans. And as we were a bit of a historical journey – see that even Mr Egibar has spoken of Ortega and Gasset; this is already for the analysts of the Basque Parliament – I will also allow myself to reflect on how we see where this problem that we are talking about here arises, when it begins to boil: And this whole independence movement was an independence movement encouraged and promoted by that president of the Generalitat of infamous memory, Mr Artur Mas, one of the 3%, who, frightened by the enormous potential of the social mobilizations that were taking place in Catalonia, who had become under his government the best laboratory of social cuts that the PP could ever think of having, for, well, put as a candy for the Catalan population: let's stop talking about this that I find uncomfortable because I'm making it fatal, and let's talk about something that the nationalists put a lot of, that is talking about dreams and not going down to the concrete, what really worries people. Then, he invented himself and pointed himself to the cart of citizen indignation, trying to convert it – with some success, by the way – in support of the secessionist movement: as in Spain everything goes wrong, if we are Catalans, everything will go great well, which is a mantra that all nationalists have used permanently. And then he started talking about what he wanted, what he was demanding, what the Catalan people wanted, forgetting that, no matter how much they were governments – and, by the way, with that 3% government of Mr Mas, who then ended up throwing away his own party for the same story – he is the one with whom Esquerra Republicana governs and who has supported the CUP for a long time. That same CUP that blocked a session of the Catalan Parliament and for which Mr Mas requested prison sentences, for those gentlemen, those same... With these same contradictions, this so-called nationalist ambition has worked, and with a subject that, frankly, offends me a lot. That is to say, when I speak of the Catalan people from the Government of Catalonia, I really feel outraged. I have a lot of families in Catalonia and none of them feel represented by that so-called Catalan government, neither feel concerned nor identify with those Catalans of whom nationalism speaks, with those Catalans who are usually, moreover, the leading elite of Catalonia, have been all life – sorry for the expression – the Catalan bourgeoisie, the menestrals; those who have led and those who have carried forward the reins of Catalan politics have not been the flat people. This has not been an explosion of popular indignation at how badly we lived in Catalonia, which began to be. And she was aborted by the so-called nationalists, to direct that indignation to other very different territories. And now we have a Catalan society, which you do not want to recognize, which is divided into 50 per cent. And a society that is 50 % divided and half of which does not feel represented by that government, which, by the way, does not manage, does not rule, does absolutely nothing in Catalonia, but devotes itself to launching sophistications to continue to burn down Catalan society. That is not a Government; it is a joke, and it is an insult to half of Catalan society. And I do that as a reflection and as a relief, forgive me, regardless of what you wanted to bring here, which was the judgment that is what we talked about in the first part. And, on that subject, I think we said what we had to say. We do agree on one thing with you: this is a political problem, of course it is. And we'll have to work it out by negotiating, of course. But any negotiation, too, is done according to rules and a legal procedure; you can ask Mrs Goirizelaia that she knows a lot about that. Whether you like it or not, it follows the procedure that is legally established, and then you can negotiate politically for try to change it, of course you can; what you can't do knowingly is skip it, because that's obvious – right?, Mrs. Goirizelaia – that always has consequences. And whoever does it knows he's gonna have them. Then it is not worth taking out the cloth of tears and rubbing yourself: how bad they are and what they have done to me; no, that you already knew it was going to happen to him. But well, after this part, do we have to open a stage of dialogue and negotiation? Of course. With all the Catalans, not just those who feel independent? Of course. Are the Socialists ready? Of course, too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u38	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u39	Botere-banaketaren inguruan asko hitz egin da, éta nik uste dut aurreko eztabaida batan ére argitu genuela non zegoen, besteak beste, boterere-banaketaren inguruko erespectu-faita. Eta justu epaiketa hau hasi aurretik, mundu guztiak ezagutu zuen Cosido dellako dokumentua. That document to which we all had access and which is clear proof of what the failure of the principle of separation of powers is. When a whole strategy is seen and articulated to control the Second Chamber and say who will also preside over the 61st Chamber, which is responsible for the processes of illegalization of the parties. And they talk to me after the separation of powers, when there is a document that shows faithfully the failure of that principle. That on the one hand. When I talk about the right to decide on the citizenship of Catalonia, I am obviously talking about the right to decide on the whole citizenship, about the different political options that they want to work on from the consensus or from the agreement. We are talking about the right to decide on the citizenship of Catalonia; I am not talking about an independent project, which can be one of the options of that right to decide. And when we are talking about the right to decide, we are not talking about 49-48% of Catalonia's citizenship, we are talking about a lot more people, about an infinitely higher percentage, about 70%; we are talking about that percentage. Right to decide... Horregatik, nik ez dut aparteko diskurtsorik egingo, baina nola esan duzuen denek, zorionez, who, as it has been an absolutely televised trial and everyone who has wanted to have been able to observe and take note, there was a moment in Turull's statement that entered, let's say, in a political reflection, and Mr. Marchena cut him off saying "that is not relevant; you will already have time in the last turn to get rid of it"; it was the expression that he used: "You will have time to get rid of it". For, in what is the last round, I have some of the sentences of the accused, and I start with Oriol Junqueras, who says: "The best thing for everyone would be to return the issue to the field of politics, from where it should never have come out." Raül Romeva: "With repression, they will not convince those who bet on peaceful ways." Joaquim Forn: "We are judged as punishment for the political challenge represented by the organization of the referendum; I continue to believe and defend Catalonia's self-determination." Jordi Turull: "Dialogue must always be the way. There were no masses or mobs, not even people; there were people and citizens. There were no eyes of hatred, but thousands of bright eyes. I am an independentist and defend the right of self-determination." Jordi Cuixart: "If police violence failed with thousands of people, will a sentence stop Catalans fighting for their right to self-determination? My goal is not to get out of jail, but to learn from the struggle of citizens who did not give up their country's ability to decide its future." Jordi Sánchez: "You – referring to the court – do not have the solution to the problem that has come upon you, but have the responsibility not to aggravate the political crisis." And finally, Josep Rull: "I am not prosecuted for rebellion by the process That's exactly what they said. What I have to say is, for the first time, respect and admiration, gratitude and solidity, especially if in life there is also a concept, a dignity, because they have fulfilled this concept of dignity; personal dignity, democratic dignity, and even political dignity. And it is evident that they will be part of a brief, and the sentence will come, but they are making the history of Catalonia, and, sooner or later, Catalonia will decide its future in a free and democratic manner. That is why I would first like to express my respect and admiration, our recognition and solidarity to those who, since their unequivocally peaceful, democratic and political position, have given real content to the concept of dignity: personal dignity, political and democratic dignity. Someone will be able, by re-reading the sentence, when it comes out, because...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u40	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u41	Bai, oraintx bukatuk had to... What a pity they have or, in any case, how they are reflected, but it is clear that, within the history of Catalonia, they are making history. I believe that, from that conviction, their testimony, the democratic and peaceful struggle will not be in vain and that Catalonia, sooner or later, will find the way for what it decides freely and democratically to be respected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u42	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Urizar Karga. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 46; counters, 16; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u43	So the original motion has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parliamentary group, concerning the burning of the victims of torture and of power together. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Flattery, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. President, members of the legislature. Thank you all for coming in with all your heart. Today we will discuss a simple and precise initiative: that is to say, the day of the United Nations, the 26th of June. Far beyond that which is important or small, I would like to show three fundamental elements in this cook-work to reach it in a good way: On the one hand, the importance of listening, the importance of guard, and the importance of working in positive ways: And he said the importance of listening. In the presentation of memory and coexistence, we have had the fortune to be able to listen to victims of different signs, different victimization, experts in memory, prison politics, coexistence, and all that listening is here. All that listening is here, because these kinds of initiatives come out of listening. And he talked about the importance of caring. It is true: how we do things to generate these agreements; if we speak beforehand, if we work for an agreement, it is possible to reach an agreement, even on issues as delicate as this, and it is possible. And the importance of working in positive. Giza eskubideen Arloan, beti baikortasunez lan egin behar dugu. In the area of human rights, there is always work for and never against human rights. Always in favor. Things are always done for the victims and, in this case, for the victims of torture: for the truth, for justice and for reparation. And this is not a matter of a group or of a person; this is of all and all: all and all the people who are here today have contributed to making and surrendering yourselves this day that you deserve. But what do we talk about when we talk about torture? The internationally agreed legal definition, according to the United Nations Convention, reads: "The term 'torture' means any act by which a person is intentionally inflicted severe pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, for the purpose of obtaining from him or from a third party information or confession, punishing him or her for an act he or she has committed or is suspected of having committed, or intimidating or coercing that person or others, or for any reason based on any discrimination, where such pain or suffering is inflicted by a public official or other person in the exercise of public functions, at his or her instigation or with his or her consent or acquiescence." These are complex crimes, involving many factors: ineffective legal frameworks, poorly sensitized societies, human rights organizations with few resources, authorities that, at best, look elsewhere, and even professionals with poor training. And, of course and most importantly, a profound ethical error and horror that makes it possible to cause this unjust suffering, to tolerate it, to protect it or not to combat it effectively. It is sad, but there is no society or state free from the scourge of torture, and Euskadi, Euskal Herria, has not been an exception. The risk of torture and other ill-treatment exists in all situations in which persons deprived of their liberty exist. In any of these situations, an imbalance of power is created, where the detained person is totally dependent on the individuals and the responsible authorities. The risk is greater at certain times and situations of a person's period of detention: First, during the initial period of police detention and custody, or also during the transfer from one place of detention to another, or when persons deprived of their liberty are outside contact with other detainees, particularly in cases of detention incommunicado or solitary confinement. Thus, according to Amnesty International, incommunicado detention, even with guarantees, is conducive to torture and ill-treatment. There is a risk of torture and other forms of ill-treatment within any closed facility, not only in prisons and police stations, but also, for example, in psychiatric institutions, juvenile detention centres, immigration detention centres and transit areas in international ports. The risk of torture and ill-treatment is present everywhere, in any country and at any time. The prevention of torture is a comprehensive strategy that seeks to reduce this risk and create an environment in which torture or ill-treatment is less likely to occur. That is why our parliamentary group has tabled, in addition to today's, another non-legislative proposal, in order to promote a process for the creation of an autonomous and independent body, which, taking as a model the mechanisms for the prevention of torture provided for in the Istanbul Protocol, will contribute to the prevention of torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in detention or detention facilities for adults and minors. He said that Euskadi was neither an exception nor an exception. The practice of torture has, of course, occurred during the dictatorship; it also occurred during the transition, and we cannot forget that it has continued to occur in Democracy. Surely, among the groups that are going to support this initiative, let us not agree on figures on this scourge. But, with time, will and care, we can achieve it. I am convinced that we will: it would be very important. I will quote some figures that can shed light on this reality: final convictions, 20, ratified by the Supreme Court between 1979 and 1992; seven convictions for not investigating torture between 2002 and 2011, of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights; 145 cases processed on the basis of Decree 107/2012 on reparation for victims of human rights violations produced in a context of politically motivated violence between 1960 and 1978; and 193 consistent cases, analysed by the Basque Institute of Criminology, on the basis of the Istanbul Protocol. And it is that, thanks to this study carried out by Paco Etxeberria's team – and I welcome several researchers and students in this report – we know that it is not that torture in the Basque Country has been more than sporadic, but that it is contrasted that torture has been a repeated conduct in the Basque Country. As the VATC report says, only with sensitivity to the suffering and injustice suffered by these victims, together with many others who have suffered the consequences of violence and terrorism in the Basque Country, can a culture of human rights be built. Visibility of the impact of torture and ill-treatment is a first step in looking at that part of the mirror that has been part of our past, and that should not condition our future as a society. This is fundamental. Today we are going to do something key for these victims: recognize them, recognize them in their suffering, recognize that their suffering is real, that it has existed, that it was unfair, that it should never have happened. Today's unanimous agreement is a way of repairing that suffering and that injustice. And doing so does not mean not recognizing any other kind of injustice. It is clear that, in our recent past, the practice of torture has been closely linked to politically motivated violence and, in this regard, has been the subject of dispute, of a perverse dispute, because on many occasions human rights violations in this country have been used for a perverse game in which some victims were intended to be counted in order to discount others from another sign, as if their suffering were neutralized, or to dilute ethical responsibilities in serious human rights violations. And nothing further from reality, the victims add up, whoever the offender is and whatever their victimization is, because their sufferings add up, they never subtract, they don't discount, they don't compensate. If something has been taught us by the pacifist and human rights movements in this country, it is precisely that there is no ethical neutrality in the face of a violation of human rights. I would therefore like to highlight the article published this year by 43 victims of ETA and other related organizations, considering a serious political and human error not wanting to recognize the victims of the so-called police abuses and extreme right-wing groups; something they understood pre-political, above acronyms, flags or concrete political options. Some people who signed this article are present here; eskerrik asko, Maixabel eta, batez ére, Iñaki, artikulu hunkigarri eta benetan miresgarri hau idazteagatik. Mila esker. And there are more similar references for a long time; anyone who is interested can consult in the hemeroteca the intervention of Juan María Bandrés in February 1981, when the debate of investiture of Calvo Sotelo; there speaks clearly of torture. We can also recall the letter published in the newspaper El País But, in addition to this dimension of torture as a politically motivated violence, it is also true that there have been other victims in social groups who are particularly vulnerable to these serious violations of human rights: persons with disabilities, persons with mental illness, the prison population, people in situations of social exclusion, the LGBTBIQ+ collective or migrants, for example. And it is that today we must make it clear that torture in Euskadi, as in every society, is not just something of the past; it is something that challenges the present and the future. Denying this reality causes these mistakes and horrors not to be avoided or repaired once they are produced. It is not a good thing to make comparisons with other human rights violations, but neither can we minimize the extent of torture in our recent past. There is no ethical neutrality; there must be moral criticism, or even self-criticism, on the part of the institutions, as the Ararteko asks us, because if something is demanded by the victims of torture itself, it is precisely the need for recognition. "Nude and handcuffed dragged me down the floor; my genitals, legs and head were beaten, with a small cock, they put a gun in my mouth, even going to shoot her; at a certain moment, one gave me a karate punch in the neck, while I was repeating myself over and over again that they were going to kill me." "The practice of the bag is difficult for me to describe; you are nobody in their hands, when they put it on you there is some air left and you can breathe. In the second or third breath, the air heats up and from then on you feel like you're drowning. "You break the bag with your teeth and put another one on you. Sometimes they put two bags at a time. I don't know how many times you can get air, but there comes a moment, when there's no air, when the bag sticks to your face because of the sweat, they release it and you come back to life." Another testimony: "If I had to describe the hardest part of the abuse, more than the beatings, that hurt, I would say the damage that they do to you as a person. It seems to you that you're a cockroach, that you're worthless and that they can do with you whatever they want. It's like you're a doll, and someone's driving you. The blows hurt and leave you mark, but the harassment you have, 'that I'm going to kill you, that I'm going to kill you, I'm going to rape you', gets you to believe it and say: well, here it is, up to here I have arrived, and I won't last another minute. The blows do hurt, but I'm sure what they do to you mentally does much more harm." Despite the crudeness of these testimonies or the constancy of some sentences, which is not interpreted as an attempt to generalize responsibilities to all agents of the security forces. Paco Etxeberria himself acknowledged that this has nothing to do with criminalizing the security forces, because the vast majority do not behave like this, nor would they do so even if they demanded it. "I know the National Police, the Civil Guard, people who curate a lot," said Paco Etxeberria. And it's that if it wasn't also for a judicial police officer – in this case, Jesús García – who did his job properly, even though he suffered serious injuries, perhaps my brother wasn't identified. So let it be clear that this initiative is not against anyone, as I said at the beginning of my speech; it is in the interests of society as a whole. In favor of the victims, of course. In favour of ensuring a fully democratic functioning of the security forces of the State and of the Basque police forces, because democracy is improved and strengthened by clarifying these cases and requiring the public authorities not to look elsewhere, asking them to stop impunity once and for all from being the norm. Don't justify yourself, don't deny yourself. To give an example, this is precisely what Juan Mari Jáuregui did. The institutions must have permanent control over torture and pursue it to the last consequences, as a way of preventing possible irregular practices and, ultimately, enabling the improvement of the service that the police provide to the entire citizenry. Unfortunately, there is still a sense of cover-up, which only weakens the rule of law, when, for example, pardons are granted to recognized perpetrators, who had been repeatedly condemned even for the practice of torture and despite judicial convictions and a prolific detail of the torture to which the victims were subjected. For them, for the victims, it is a perfect relief to have their sufferings, their truths, and their injustice to confess. This judgment does not exhaust the work which ought to be done in this field, either in the sphere of truth, justice, and observation, or even in the prevention and sensibisation of the torture. We all have homework. For example, in the measures of rehabilitation, we have all our jurisdiction (Cosciliation, social services, legal guidance... ), and in the whole of its potency we do not yet properly use it. Today's steps meets other people. We shall all take this step together from the agreement, and I should like that, among many others born of consent, the present is not the last. We need it. Don't hesitate for us: I myself and Podemos together will row and carry on this tract, leaving no one to land. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u46	Thank you very much, President; lehendakari, councillor, councillor, ladies and gentlemen, guests too... a greeting from the group I represent today. Of course, in this non-legislative proposal, when Mrs Zabala contacted me a few weeks ago, because I have already expressed our agreement to approve this initiative in the terms she had proposed to us, as the text of the proposal states. This statement and this position against torture are part of our political convictions, our legal convictions, our democratic convictions, our ethical convictions; it is part of this opposite position before all kinds of torture. Torture is a crime, and its practice repugnants everyone with convictions based on respect for life, for people, for human beings; its rejection by democratic society is basic; its rejection by democratic society is essential. In this regard, the approach that makes us can be taken in the text to which I shall now refer, in the vicinity of the celebration in addition to the International Day in Support of Victims of Torture. We all know what's going on in the world. We all contemplate every day incredible cases of torture throughout the world and, of course, there we must all be together, the democrats united, for to denounce them, to make them visible, to do that work too, to which you have referred, of prevention. And, in addition, we have it installed in our acquis, in our legal system: society, our society, Spanish society, our legal system assumed what was dealt with in the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, which was held in New York on December 10, 84. Spain signed it in February of '85... Well, it's been developing; there it is. So it's part of our legal system. Of course, it is necessary to prevent and ensure that society takes action. I also have to tell you – and that is normal; it has already been discussed, and we have already made it clear – that we do not assume all that you tell us or that some tell us. We also disagree on some magnitudes or conclusions, some reports... which speak on the subject and adopt a certain attitude in relation to some issues and which are not evidence of facts that are sometimes identified and conclusive. And in that sense, we have that ability to disagree. We, of course, do what we do. "I say it again," he said, "is to trust, of course, in respect, in judicial judgments, in the judicial investigation and in what the judges and courts transfer, and above all, what I have to show is our perfect, close, intimate trust in the state security forces and in the Ertzaintza. That's what we have to say because it's an intimate conviction, and we have to manifest it like this. That is why some of our positions have been criticized by you, but our positions have been the guarantee of law enforcement, the guarantee that things will be done well, legal certainty; that is the fundamental element that has led us to positions that have been criticized by you, but that have nothing to do with rejection or condemnation of the practice of torture in any part of the world. I have to say that again: we can disagree – and we disagree – with some of the reports that have been put before us, because they did not seem to us to be sufficiently rigorous or sufficiently grounded in the legal necessity and even the historical fact; but, in any case, well, the debate today is another, because you have not raised it. You have made a non-law proposal with three parts, and you have proposed to us, first of all, something we assumed, because we had already done so and because we assumed it normally: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque institutions, in particular the Basque Government, to join the United Nations initiative in commemorating the International Day of Support for Victims of Torture every 26 June." It is clear that that is good, and it is good – and I thank you – that you bring these kinds of initiatives. We too like to move in the international order: what the United Nations or what the European Union is asking us to remember or celebrate. And this issue, in relation to the preservation of human rights, is a basic and fundamental element, and we are going to commemorate it. Of course. I say again, recalling the New York Convention, which entered into force in 87, but which was signed in 84, and Spain one minute after it had been held, and that proclamation of the 1997 international day. It is clear that we have to work on that key and that we are going to do it and, well, the proposals will come in relation to how we celebrate it. The goal, says the initiative, "is the recognition of these victims before society for the injustice that this serious violation of human rights entails." Indeed, the victims of torture, the victims of human rights violations, must have the recognition that has brought them... and we see it: the testimonies, their suffering, the need to have to flee, to have to take refuge, to have to exile, to have to ask for help, to have to spend so many deprivations, imprisonment, that to die even in relation to practice; the aim of that recognition is that, and we are going to be there. In any case, there is no doubt, I say again: it is part of the international concert and we have to assume it, and we have to adopt that legal, ethical and also preventive work in relation to what new generations have to adopt as a political and public reference to behaviour and respect for human rights. And it is clear that also – as the initiative presented says – "the approach and content of the commemorative events will be adopted by promoting as much consensus as possible by parliamentary groups". Well, here we are; let's see, let's work, logically, in that reference work, of not imputation, of reflection, of prevention, of a society in relation to torture and with which it does not occur again, to the extent possible. That's right, that's a position and, logically, we will be there where people who suffer and people whose rights are violated are recognized. The commemoration of the international day that you propose, to be done through the Basque Government and its actions, is therefore important. It's important. Society must have... as is the question for which these days, these marked days, these days that have been assumed by the vast majority of the international community, society must have a clear awareness of human rights violations anywhere in the world and, logically, there we will be. Just read what King Juan Carlos signed in connection with the Instrument for Ratification of the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment in December 1984. It is there: it has to serve us and it serves us in our legal order, as a guide, as a basis, as a foundation, and there we will continue to work. It is clear – I repeat again – that we disagree on issues, we disagree on instruments that have been used to disqualify state bodies and security forces or Ertzaintza; from that, we disagree at the root. We understand that the conduct of justice, the conduct of judicial investigations and their judgements is the fundamental element. And there has also been, Mrs Zabala, propaganda, strategies of negatification, of disqualification of the security forces of the State and of the Ertzaintza, through reports of ill-founded actions. We will understand that today we will take a step forward in what it is to recognize, of course, the consequences of torture, and we will see how, among all, we can make that happen nowhere in the world again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u47	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u48	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselor, guests and guests, good morning to all. With regard to the victims of torture and abuse of power, this is not the first or the second or third time that we have debated in this Parliament, and on the occasion of some issues that have already been discussed and mentioned and other issues, the last with the amendment and adoption of the law aimed at taking measures to satisfy the rights of truth, justice and reparation and recognition of these victims. The acts of recognition, because this initiative deals with a special act, on 26 June, in support of victims of torture and abuse of power, which will organize, in consensus with all the political forces of Parliament, the Basque Government and other Basque institutions. It's a specific act. The acts of recognition for the victims, whether of terrorism or violence, have been in this country, rather than a meeting point, a great field of combat. That's what's going on in memory, too. And it is a concern that the Socialists sincerely bring to today's debate, and I hope I will not really take it after the unanimous adoption of this non-legislative proposal has taken place. With regard to justification and ethical, democratic and political reason, my group's support is more than justified: the suffering of these victims of torture and abuses of power is unjust suffering, like that of the rest of the victims; it deserves all the public and unanimous support and consideration of all Basque society, through its institutions. There's no reason, no justification, no contextualization to protect torture, no police abuse... There's never been one. Nor is there any reason for a vote against an act of recognition by Basque institutions of these victims of torture and abuse. Violence suffered by these victims is inexhaustible by a decent society; because, in a decent democratic society, acceptance and respect for the values and principles that inspire the rule of law must be indispensable, and respect for human rights, a duty and an irrefutable obligation, when they are violated. To understand and internalize this and to settle it throughout Basque society is a work that we still have pending; to understand and internalize, clearly, that human rights are of all people; there are no human rights, because they are of those who are different from us and who think differently; to believe in human rights also means protecting and defending the rights of those who have not respected ours, or who have violated them or who have harmed us. To admit that this line is transgressed under certain circumstances or according to who it is something that no society can be allowed – I insist – to be considered decent in democratic terms. Condemning the terrorism of ETA, the LAG and the Spanish Basque Battalion, and not condemning torture and abuse of power is, in addition to being deeply inconsistent, ethically unsustainable and absolutely undemocratic. Just as it is to recognize the injustice of the suffering of victims of torture and abuse, and not to do so with the victims of terrorism. Same... None of these attacks were ever justified; it was never legitimate, neither before nor now. When we talk about human rights in our country, we often talk in ponds; human rights are universal, but here we have been establishing them or placing them in ponds. We are very much working in those compartments and working a little bit in a very sectarian world, in which we have boxed people in extremes, always reinforcing our differences and, however, reality has given us the reason why we are tremendously complex, also the Basques, and we move not only in black and white, but in a wide and varied range of greys. I believe that the work is in breaking that sectarianism, so that the acts of recognition to all victims are truly done as a collective mourning of all Basque society. Because you know it well. There are times when we demand the oblivion of some things and the memory of others, and vice versa; the reasons against the oblivion of some and in favor of the obligation to remember others. It is a paradigm of the past, trenches, pond compartments and sectarianism. The victims have not been the victims of responsibility of everyone, but of sometimes somewhat uncomfortable presences, upon whom the suspicion of meriting their fate lay. There have been silences, many complicit silences, imposed silences and chosen silences. There have also been silences from those who have disturbed us all, as they can disturb indifference or indolence many times. But this has a lot to do with the borders we've built. One saw the other as an enemy or as a victim, who is a victim, but who wants nothing to do with it; each one looks at the other as if they were the others. And we have, I think, the risk of remaining entangled and the responsibility to break those patterns. That is why we must work to shape those acts of recognition with a little more boldness and freedom, and a little more truth. I am very afraid that we are still far from breaking all the patterns of the past; in sight it is: Memory Day is still full of silences, we have one day of the victims of terrorism, now supported by all; now we will have one day in support of the victims of torture and abuse. And I won't hide my fear if, by individualizing how we are doing in acts of recognition to the various victims, we're not working much on those parameters of the past, or we don't leave someone forgotten. Because, where are the victims, if there is one of terrorism, another of torture, where are those of violence of persecution? Where can we include Eduardo Moreno Bergaretxe, Pertur Naparra I am just saying that I have my doubts and my concern, because there have been many problems, and perhaps the political forces can say yes to acts of recognition, but then the content and the words and support of those acts of recognition must be bravely addressed. There are people who can really think that, being Basque socialist, I am a genetic carrier of a gene of hatred and resentment to the people who belonged to ETA and those who understood or justified them, when they did not applaud them; there will be people "Believe me there still is," he believes, "that I am of the law of the eye by eye and that I understood, understood or still understand that, at some point, there were those terrorist organizations that responded to ETA with more horror; there will even be people who believe that I justify torture for revenge or information, and there will even be people who think the opposite, that if I don't feel this I am a coward or a traitor. Well, I don't think anyone knows the Basque Socialists or me either. I want to tell you that we have been in pain for a long time, vitally, from the Francoist prisons and their torture, or ETA's later; that I have seen a great deal, a great deal, of suffering to many people and feeling very lonely – I am not going to tell you here – and that in all this personal journey I have always done my best to maintain two principles: the unwavering defense of the value of the word and to have always been on the side of non-violence. I've never intended to hate and, if I did it at any time, I've fought to stop doing it instantly. That is why I can say that I have never wished other people to torture them or to be victims, and that is not easy. It is not easy not to be carried away by hatred, grudge and revenge, and it leaves wounds. They all leave wounds. I have them there a little hidden, under layers of survival, but I can say that I do not hate, that I have no grudge, that I do not want revenge, that I do not understand, understand or justify any suffering caused by violence or terrorism, and that the victims of torture and abuse were unjust, reprehensible and reprehensible, because the violence they suffered – maximum when it was caused by State officials, who had to protect and guarantee their rights – is inadmissible and unjustifiable in any circumstances and place. And we're not leaving those victims alone. We will be in the public recognition of Basque institutions. That is why we are voting in favour of this non-law proposal, without excuses or justifications. No more. It is not about the pain and suffering of the other. We are responsible for these victims, who are – indeed, we believe – all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. And a special welcome to all the guests, and especially to all the victims of torture created by the police force, the Civil Guard, the National Police, and the Border. I hope you've improved on this initiative today, and I hope you're aware of it. In the Basque Country, we celebrate the day of torture on February 13th, the day of the murder of Joseba Arre too in 1981. Joseph's last words were very severe; an incident that has been very severe. As Josephba Arrei, tortures have killed many others: Agustinzkaga, the Mount of Cronmin, Martha Mercedes Ancheta, Juan Thomas, Juan José Worldte, Antonio Goñi, Esteban Muruetatoi, Joxana Lasa, Joxi, the Broad Michael, the High Cross, Xabier Kalparfield, Juan Calvogal, all murdered tortures. They represent more than anything in this country the tragedy of the practice of torture. The tortured Basques have no record. They have denied their existence, their suffering. They didn't exist. They didn't exist. The tortured didn't get the truth. They don't know what they did to them. The tortured have not received justice, and in those rare cases where justice has studied and punished the practice of torture, the torturers have been treated with perfect impunity; a very small punishment, which they have not fulfilled, by receiving indulgences, promotions, medals, and prizes. It is true that tortured euscals have had a social reconnaissance, but today we take a step so that they can also have an institutional regeneration. Today we are proposing, with this initiative, the celebration of the International Day in Support of Victims of Torture, and I was wondering how to offer support to victims of torture. I do not believe that the Basque victims of torture, who have suffered an excruciating crime, expect their torturers to serve very long sentences and in inhumane conditions, would deserve them, but I do not believe that the victims of torture claim very high compensation or compensation either. I don't even think they want an empty institutional statement, of condemnation, to cover the file, but I think it's enough for them to hold their eyes and be told that what happened is true, that the testimony they give is true, that what they suffered is true, to be looked at in their eyes and told with sincerity: we believe you. A day to combat the negationism suffered by these victims, who have even been deprived of their mere existence. For years they did not exist; they were inventions to discredit the bodies and security forces of the State; they were the result of terrorist manuals; they were a political alibi; their tragedy was non-existent, mere fiction with dark interests, simply a lie, perhaps the most sophisticated and elaborate lie in history. Michael Specter explained to us what negationism is, and I wanted to bring him to this debate: "A phenomenon that occurs when a segment of society, often struggling with the trauma of change, turns its back on reality, in favor of a lie that is more comfortable for it." Turns your back on reality in favor of a lie that's more comfortable for you. Many have turned their backs on the reality of torture, because their denial was more comfortable for them. Many have suffered this syndrome; it has been a pandemy for many years in this country, and I think that PP, even today, suffers the evil of negionism. I want to denounce PP's thoroughly phony, completely hypocritical attitude that they've had here today. They say they have a position against torture, but they don't recognize the victims of torture. The only thing that has ever been reconnaissance has been Mr. Barrio's to the torturers, the champions, the state security forces... done. I understand that they can't do it against a day of the United Nations, but I think they are quite contrary to the nature of that day: perhaps there will be tortures in the world, but not in the Basque Country. They're in front of you, but they'd prefer to be in a pitiful negotiative mood, in an unacceptable position... To stay. Today I think it ends officially with that attitude of negarianism which is given to them irrigation, even irrefutably to the victims of the octimonious torture. There have been some important landmarks, and I think that these landmarks have helped to end up with this neterionism and to get out of civilization. Eighty. In the decade of the year Mrs. d'Ajuda mentioned the attorney, forensics, and judges, who were sentenced to 62 torturers, thirty eupscals, in the court of Biscay and Gipuzia. A tank in an ocean, but we can't deny today that the ocean exists. Justice has not attempted to investigate torture, but has accused the Court of Human Rights in Europe nine times the State of Spain. The UN rapporteur Theo van Boven paid a visit in 2003, after which he assured that the practice of torture was far from sporadic or incidental in Spain. The Committee against Torture has taken into consideration individual complaints, for lack of investigation, in the case of Encarni Blanco, who is with us today, or the tortures reported by Orkatz Gallastegi arrested by the Ertzaintza, or in the case of Kepa Urra, who was recognized as violating his right to reparation by pardoning his torturers. The Human Rights Committee has condemned Spain for practicing torture in the case of Juana Achabal, or more recently – today exactly a month ago – in the case of Gorka Lupiañez. All these punks must add the report made by the New House of Paco, and also the report made by their equipment, and I want to remark their courage, their work, to enable them to become a partaker of the torture. These observations, these decisions, these reports, have all been landmarks, let us all know what extension the tortures are, what breadth, what depth. in this country where he has it. This phenomenon cannot be diminished; this tragedy cannot be denied. This marked the dimensions of the torture, because of the quantum view, and also for the quantum. The universe of torture is uncovered, the system of torture is uncovered. In fact, you need a system to exist for such a phenomenon. You need a trade that makes torture possible. You need a mechanism to make sure the impact unit is operational. And these systems, structure and contrivances are called, and there have been a system of incommunication and have been the national hearing. We have to end with these systems and contrivances to make sure that torture doesn't happen again. Today I would like to point out that, in fact, beyond the social recognition already enjoyed by the victims of torture, they will be provided with... We will make progress in institutional recognition. And this initiative, far from being the goal, must encourage us to continue to work to better welcome the victims of torture and offer them all the recognition and reparation they deserve. To this end, it is necessary to continue to analyse the impact that statements extracted under torture have had on the imposition of punishments at the National High Court. These self-incriminations or incriminations of third persons under torture have generated accusations, irregular accusations, arbitrary convictions, the famous theory of the poisoned fruit tree. The judicial truth, the official, which has come to establish the National High Court, is contaminated by the practice of torture in the extent that we are now demonstrating. We have yet to complete the map of torture in this country, bringing to light all the testimonies of those who have suffered this tragedy and giving them credibility through scientific instruments such as the Istanbul Protocol. We have to put the repair into practice. There is a need to find an adequate legal framework, which still does not exist today, since that law, which we have recently adopted, for victims of human rights violations, does not yet receive them and does not, as it is deserved, give them the right to reparation and restitution of tortured persons. We need to introduce effective prevention mechanisms that prevent these events from happening again. And, indeed, as requested by this initiative, we need an act at the highest institutional level, agreed by the political forces, to make visible the recognition and institutional reparation to all victims of Basque torture, which coincides with the International Day of Support for Victims of Torture. Ongi etorria, beraz, ekimen hau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u51	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u52	The Presidente, the President, the members of the legislature, and above all those who are victims of so many violences as you are with us today. To you, my public confession, gratitude, and welcome. This presence of yours today is a measure of the importance of today. On the 2nd of June 1995, the Eugarchian first discussed and accepted another proposal as to torture. And so the Assembly judged, 24 years ago, on the third and fourth points of this other proposition: "Three. To put aside all the practice of torture and ill-treatment, which is to be Dishonourable, and contrary to human dignity. And let them take the legal measures necessary to demand from all authorized institutions, that the rights of the human rights of any person who has been deprived of his freedom will be strictly respected. "And four. To take exact measures of opinion, by means of the Human Rights and People's Commission, to raise the respect of human rights and physical perfections, are in their situation." Since that time, 13 more initiatives have been discussed and admitted to condemn the practice of torture, to defend the international law, and to proclaim human rights. In addition, so many other enterprises have been exercised, by examining certain accusations of torture. This position of the legislature is therefore not new; it has been maintained for many years. It is true that the several majority have hitherto made decisions which have been protected by different majority; The Jeltarian Party, the Sociists of the Social Party, some protected by the United States or by the Basque Alcharities, others by the Jalt Party and the Basque People. But never with the majority of what we're going to accept today. This is the main novelty of this non-law proposition. Not so much its content, but unanimity in its support. The content is yet another step forward in a repeated and constant position in this Basque Parliament, denouncing torture and defending international legality and human rights. The novelty, however, is that, for the first time in almost 40 years of Parliament's history, there will be a unanimous vote in this House on an initiative related to torture. What is important is that today we fully support the United Nations initiative to commemorate the International Day in Support of Victims of Torture in Euskadi on 26 June. This is a qualitative leap along the path of recognition to silenced and denied victims on many occasions. Torture is one of the most serious and repugnant crimes, precisely because it is committed by the person entrusted with the protection and defence of the basic rights of the citizen, of each and every person without exception. Victims of torture enjoy the same rights to truth, justice and reparation as established by international legality for victims. They're victims. Victims with capitals. The non-legislative proposal addresses the recognition of these victims as part of the right to reparation. I'd like to insist on the work of Pilli the congressman and thank you for today's work. It's hers, in a great measure, the achievement of today. In fact, he's managed to get what he looked like. It's impossible, it's done with action. Today is another step. So far we have been given a good means to get ahead of the rights. We have a good report about the torture you promised me, a good tool to go on with the truth and confession, and make a new move. We have something to do. Today, we've all shown an opposition to torture, but we need measures. Not just words. The measures are exact: To end with incommunication, to put video recordings in the police station, and to keep them in a firm position, especially in the presence of accusations or suspicions, which the torturers want to continue. From the very beginning of the Eucasian Party, the Jeltarian Party expressed a firm opposite attitude. We've always accused all the murders we've committed loudly. But it is with the same force that we must accuse the torture. There must be no doubt about it. It doesn't count. Democracy, defence of human rights, international legislation, and all conventions require this. We have a way to go, a way to continue building a country committed to human rights and the dignity of people. International and domestic legislation set out clear mandates for the public authorities. They must act decisively against torture: it is not an option; it is a legal mandate. They are not worth generic or abstract statements. Judicial guardianship, although necessary, is not sufficient. The Administration should not be limited to waiting for legal action and should proceed with preventive action. The audio-visual recording of the detention, the legal assistance of lawyers of free choice, the examinations carried out by a trusted doctor, the communication to the family of the detention and the place where the person remains in detention. They are mandatory measures; they are also measures that help prevent the occurrence of ill-treatment and torture; they are measures recommended by the European Committee and other international bodies. Preventive measures that must be implemented. I'm done. Today is the day of the agreement, and with that I want to stay: a day of invitation to continue working for the agreement. We need more agreements like today, clear and unanimous pronouncements on the unfairness of the damage caused by terrorism, political violence or torture. Those agreements are worth working on. We must continue to take steps on a path that we must necessarily walk together, steps with agreements to build a society that banishes the violence that has shaken it for too many years; steps with agreements that definitively bury terrorist activity; steps with agreements that build a coexistence based on the memory of what happened, the dignity of the victims, the injustice of violence and the supreme value of life and human dignity. This is the unanimous invitation we received today. It is worth working on those agreements and continuing to take steps together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u53	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing by the answers, together Podemos, Miss Wide, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u54	I am sincerely grateful to all the members of the legislature, but I am grateful to all the people who are upstairs, who are so different from their lives and views, but all of them connected with human rights. Maybe some of you look like a kid's midnight cough, but today's been a big day for me. It is pleasant to see that we have received this proposition, as well as by one mouth; we owed it to those who have suffered the tortures. We must work for the 11th Union of March. There is also the day of forced revelations, an international day, the 30th of August, but, well, that's there. Since elections have passed, I would like this initiative, unanimously accepted, not to be lost in the sea of law. I hope that, during the remainder of the time, one more step in the affairs of peace and co-existence, it should now be no longer a political obstacle; no political strategy, human strategy should triumph. As you know, we're stopped in power, in memory and co-operation, and the attitudes of some groups seem to be very far away. I want to ask you a special effort, even to the Popular Party. We're not so different, I'm convinced that we can go on walking together, though, like today, we're small. I am sure that we may be able to agree on other enterprises which may cause great majoritys in the circle of life; at least it is my intention to discuss certain matters of peace and co-operation which have not taken the proper importance in this whole meeting. We have prepared and cultivated plans, and this year, when we find the right time, they will present themselves. The collective memory can be completed only in an objective manner, if all the violences produced and suffered are described and published by individual, political, and armed. We must push the scientific and independent truth of repairing our collective and individual memory, without any political inference. And in order to make a credible narrative, we should take objective data from this point of view, and not, on the contrary, as we are doing; First of all, history and then memory. They say, moreover, that there is not only one memory, and they doubt that it is the principal end of a common understanding about memory. A true peace would be necessary to live reverently on different narratives. Without a personal, social, ethical, and ethical record of suffering, it is not possible to make amends for memory. I've never hidden from myself that I have personal injury, but I've still got another, that collective wound we haven't learned to apply appropriate therapy. We shall not attempt to keep an eye on him at this time of day: the cure is not only to help people, but to necessarily connect them with the health of the community. No one will avoid it, especially if I allowed myself to enter into politics for that reason. Let me tell you frankly: It would be a failure for me to go without attempting to do so, without giving or being able to produce positive influences in life, because I believe in it, without presenting myself to it, I am born of personal necessity and ethical conviction. Today, despite what we have heard here, I am left with the consensus. I know that there are still many steps to take, and I know that there are still many denials still a little in the air, by different people. Denialism has existed, denial to the victims of torture, denial to the victims of ETA: that has existed. It's true and I understand, Rafi, all that you've expressed. I know what they look at you with a lot of mistrust for defending people who have suffered, for thinking I can't understand them. I understand all those sufferings. I always try to put myself in the victim's place, always in the victim's place. Yes, an objective truth is needed. And the scientific reports, objectives and made with absolute historical rigour exist; they are on the table, and we have them in this Basque Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u56	Gracias, president. Look, Mrs Zabala, you're talking about consensus. Well, let's see that we are voting on a GNP that you have tabled in relation to the international day and some issues, with a position of this House. I told you, Mrs Zabala, at that meeting that we had a few months ago or a few weeks ago to talk about this initiative of yours and that we were willing. I told you in good will that someone was going to insult us, would assault us once again in this House, and that is what has happened, Mrs Zabala. That's not what's new, look. Someone has said that there are news here in this debate, but, look, the news has not been that, that has not been a news, that we are insulted and attacked. Someone has spoken here about denouncing the position of the People's Party, denouncing, on a day we are talking about a question, that we are positioning ourselves, denouncing; we have been insulted, we have been called fraudsters and hypocrites to whom we condemn torture, to whom we say to celebrate the day in favour of the victims who have suffered torture, to whom we reject torture, to whom we demand that cases of torture be investigated, to whom we demand that those responsible for torture be tried and sentenced, that is, and to whom we come here with the good will, that you asked me and that I gave it, to come here for a debate, because we have to endure what we already know. What we already know, which is the insult and which is that disqualification... It looks like sometimes, when we make a demanding approach, we say, how we are going to go to the cohabitation paper, if we do not stop being insulted in this House. And by whom? And who insults us? Which is the fundamental thing. Who insults us? He insults us who cannot shake off the orbit of the greatest torturer in this country, which has been ETA. ETA has been the main source of torture in this country, in relation to people, with children, with mothers, with wives, with husbands, with friends... That has been the greatest source of torture. And look, to recognize this, we are insulted; that is, who has come here to try to give lessons? What can that spokesman teach us here? What can you teach us, Mrs. Zabala? You told me you weren't going to insult us. You told me we were going to talk about the International Day in Support of Victims of Torture. He didn't tell me the whole truth; he didn't tell me the whole truth. And we've been insulted. But I say: we condemn torture, we reject torture, we commemorate the day of the victims of torture, but there is a parliamentary group that does not condemn the murders of ETA, that does not condemn the torture of ETA, the torture that has suffered so many people in this country, that we know friends and comrades, that have sat here with us and that have been tortured, have been killed, by the terrorist band ETA. That is, that I am the hypocrite, I am the fraudulent; I condemn torture, which is what you asked me to do here today, and I have done so. And I have to come here and put up with that? You say that in initiatives it sometimes fits everything, it fits everything; you make us a proposal, I add it to it. Why does it not present an initiative demanding what it requires for these to vote? If I introduce her, they will insult me again; but if you introduce her. Why don't you introduce her? Think about it. He speaks that he wants to achieve and wants to end his term in this Parliament with proposals for consensus. This is not about seeking consensus, Mrs Zabala; this is not about seeking consensus, it is not about reaching consensus. I tell you that I feel that you have used me a little in my goodwill, and I feel that you have not been able to neutralize, of course, the insults to those who have suffered the most from torture in this country, which we have suffered in a defiant manner. There have been comrades here who are no longer here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u57	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero must not speak. Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Barrio, I make my speech, I have my position; do not attempt to transfer responsibility to the proposer. She could talk about the attitude she was going to have. I have my own position. Vote as you like, but I'll appreciate that attitude, I'll appreciate your position, as I please. You say insults and aggressions, but all I have done is a criticism, which I believe is for that reason what this attrition is for, so that I can criticize and be able to face positions that, I understand, are hypocritical and fraudulent. And I'm going to explain to you why: The first fraud commits it when you say that the greatest torturer is ETA, mixing absolutely everything, in the end not recognizing anything, that's the problem and that's what I'm blaming you for. Article 1 of the Convention against Torture: for torture to occur, three elements must be given: public official, severe pain or suffering and have an objective, i.e. to obtain information or confession, to punish or to coerce a person in detention. It is this, and this is what we are talking about, and you have to resort to ETA because it is very uncomfortable with the subject we are discussing, and I have to tell you one thing: I do not deny any act of violence, I do not deny any victims of any kind of violence, nor that of ETA. I do not deny any form, any intensity, any kind of suffering. I want the whole map of all the human rights violations and all the victims to be on the table so that we can see what has happened in this country in all its intensity and extent, and I ask you to see if you want the same thing. Because here is the second fraud: you are talking about that you are against torture, but this day is not the International Day against Torture, it is the International Day in Support of Victims of Torture, and you do not recognize the existence of victims of torture in this country. He talks about the world, anywhere in the world, because you may denounce torture, because I don't know, in Turkey, in the Congo or in North Korea, but it's that he has them in front of him, that they're right here and they just ask that they be looked in their eyes and that the testimony they give, that the suffering they have, be equally recognized. And so I understand that what you want to do is to fraudulently assume the day without victims of torture, in order to be able to reinforce itself in your account of the only violence, that the State at no time incurred any kind of human rights violation, that there is no responsibility blamed on the State, blamed on you, on any kind of human rights violation and, inter alia, on torture itself. And this is the discourse I make, and I do not think it offensive, I think not less, that it is an aggressor; that is the censure I here make, the political position I make, and the point. Once again, my most experienced reconnaissance to all the victims of various times, of various police and suffering. I think today, in the positive, we take a step: I think that we are still far from what you deserve, and that you may have a full recovery. "And you shall keep your battle and gather them together with you, and do all these things with you. EH is ready, with full determination, to have the measures and protection of all the victims, and even the confession of the victims worthy of the use of the victims, worthy of their observation, and of their merit. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u59	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturete must not speak a word. Now that the argument has ended, we will vote together the original text of the proposition as well as that of the Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 70; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u60	So, the original text was unanimously accepted. [[Applause]] Forth point on the theme list: "The Moment, introduced by María del lópez de Ocariz López, the members of the American laws of the Basque Groups, the Act of 10/1998, the 8th of April, the bill of changing the country for the development of the environment. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Miss Lopez de Octariz, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. The non-legislative proposal I am presenting on behalf of the People's Group refers to the Government's commitment to refer to this House an amendment to the Rural Development Act in the first quarter of 2019. This amendment bill has not come to the House, and we are asking the Counsellor. She explained to us the work undertaken to implement this commitment, and, in the middle of the work, they realized that the need was greater than what was originally intended by the initiative and that it required a new law, rather than an amendment. We fully share this change of view – so to speak – because, indeed, after 21 years, a comprehensive, much more complete update is needed, and that is why we understand and understand this government proposal to make a new bill. Because, indeed, the current challenges to which a law of these characteristics must respond require incorporating all the changes that have been made in both agrarian activity and territorial development, where all sectoral policies that affect the same environment converge and where solutions must be given in the light of the new realities. A new definition of the objectives, updated in line with socio-economic and institutional transformations, is also essential from our point of view. The challenges of the future affecting the rural environment must also be taken into account. It is very important to review rural areas, defining the types and planning tools that affect each area (mountain areas), what characteristics they have and what measures should be implemented in those areas. Therefore, the zoning that had now clearly required a change, and that too, as we said in the People's Group, must be changed, transformed and that also affects this law. We also believe that the structures for the implementation of rural development policies need to be updated and strengthened to the extent that they actually fulfil their assigned role. I am referring, first of all, to the local action groups, those groups formed by representatives of the society of one area, of those areas, of those regions, so that the initiatives can emerge from below, with a broad representation of the social fabric of each region, which in turn are also those who are going to develop in some way the local rural development plans, thereby forming part of or joining the development plan of Basque Country. So all these structures also require an important role. I believe that the Counsellor also referred to how to strengthen these local action groups, so that they can really work with those initiatives that are presented in the regions. This seems very important to us. We were talking in this House a few days ago about the problems of depopulation in rural areas. Here it is, in these local action groups and in the local development plans, where you can really incorporate those specific initiatives of each area, of each region, of the territory, which are very different. And for that, the Rural Development Act must incorporate new competencies for these structures and new activities, and strengthen them in some way. We agreed with the Counsellor on the need, as she said, for those more efficient governance instruments. We made a special mention of Landaberri, and our group has been engaged in this period of development of this law, and we have put a lot of emphasis on the need for Landaberri, which until now was the body of the Basque Government that made a bit of a binder and that supervised or had the competence that all plans, laws and decrees that affect the rural sphere should pass through Landaberri and be informed, if they really had any negative affection or had some glue that plan, draft or law, as I said to them. This has been very difficult, it has been very complicated, to manage it, that any processing has to go through a more added organ, which has made it very often that Landaberri's report is not incorporated, which was mandatory. Therefore, we have not complied with the will of the law, and for that we have to make a much more powerful structure of these governance bodies, governance bodies that have to give us the possibility of a much more effective development of the law. These are some of the basic references to be taken into account in this draft law on rural development, which will serve us, as I said, for the proper implementation of the rural development programme. Some may think: well, the thing about rural development, a law of rural development, to be amended, to be made a new... But this law is very important, because from this law then hangs the Basque Rural Development Plan, the Rural Development Plan for the Basque Country... These programmes come from the common agricultural policy, which is the second pillar, the rural development of the common agricultural policy, which arose from the need to support what we call the first pillar of the CAP, the programme of direct aid for production activities. This rural development programme, which is currently the Basque Country's 2015-2020, represents a contribution from the European Union of EUR 87 million for this period of European aid. It's not an alienation initiative, as anyone might think. It is an initiative that will provide up-to-date coverage of rural development plans. So, we're – I think – before a law that has a lot of strength, that can manage, that can help focus, rural development in a much more realistic way. Because these plans contain the priorities of the Basque Country in terms of economic, environmental and social aspects that are envisaged and developed through axes and measures, to be developed in these periods of rural development. If we refer to the current, which is 2015-2020, the total economic amount of this development plan is 290 million euros. As I said to you, EUR 87 million – I believe it is 87,100,000 – from the budget of the European Union. But this also involves EUR 49 million of national co-financing and EUR 153 million of additional complements to national financing. It is therefore a question of how to address the challenges and opportunities facing us in rural areas. And we have the budget and we have the axes, the measures, and, in order for this to be more efficient, effective and efficient, we must have a governance structure that will help us to do so, and we believe that this law should collect the governance bodies, so that they can be effective. That is why we, from the People's Group, as we say in the non-legislative proposal, or in the interpellation we put to the Counsellor, think it very important and very timely that, after 21 years, a new law exists or a new law is drawn up, which will help us, in a way more in keeping with the reality of the rural environment today, to address the challenges and opportunities we face. And that is why we are presenting an initiative, which is apparently simple, but which has a very important significance for rural areas, and which is very important that it be updated, that it be brought into line with the needs we have today, so that it can help us manage rural development and be able to carry out all those initiatives that we express here so repeatedly, that they are necessary. And, therefore, our initiative has not had any amendments. I look forward to the House's support for this initiative to come forward and that we can try to get the Government to bring us this bill and to be able to contribute among all those to improve the development, implementation, of rural development plans, and the implementation of all the measures that can be implemented in rural areas or we consider necessary to implement them. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr Pricee, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u63	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs López de Ocariz, we share your initiative. We agree that the Rural Development Act needs to be updated. If the rural environment has always been important, at the moment and looking to the future, it is much more important; because, in a way, it is a decisive agent in combating some of the challenges facing humanity as a whole: the problem of depopulation, the problem of concentrations in large cities, the defence of the environment, the fight against pollution, the fight against deforestation... Finally, against a lot of problems that constitute right now, which already constitute, together with climate change, the great challenges of humanity for the next 20 or 30 years in terms of being able to dominate them, in terms of being able to control them, in terms of human activity being able to put a stop to these great problems and channel them in another way, or in terms of being completely out of our hands. Therefore, at this point in time, as already planned, the updating of this Rural Development Act seems to us to be correct in the legislative timetable of the Government. In addition, the Government itself has expressed its interest in doing so this year and, in addition, it has already pointed out in the preliminary draft, in the general outline it has put forward for the preparation of the preliminary draft law, some criteria, criteria on participation, criteria on financing; finally, criteria in many areas. It is clear that the rural environment needs planning across all sectoral policies; that it needs support, support from institutions in housing, employment, health, education, mobility, and many things. Some of them are made; others have to be adjusted; this is a good framework to be able to do so. It is true that we must also seek a balance between what is agricultural and forestry land, and that in some way this has also gone a little disproportionate in recent decades. That approach will also need to be reviewed. It is clear that Community policy is changing, because of the circumstances which exist and which are very related to the rural environment, mainly in its financing and also in its programmes. We are also at a time when the budgets of the European Union have to be discussed again, from which the new financing of the common agricultural policy will have to come, which obviously creates problems for the entire international situation that we are experiencing, mainly in relation to Brexit. Finally, there are many elements of general policy, international policy and also local policy, on which we need to review and position ourselves. We therefore believe that this initiative is reasonable, and that is why we have not tabled any amendments. We believe that the approach and want to focus and want to insist a little more on the Government so that this law will come into this course, this year, seems reasonable to us, and that is why we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u64	Thank you, Mr Price. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, congressmans, all good days. We agree with the proposing group, with the proponent of this initiative, on the importance of the Rural Development Act. In a debate we had recently last month, talking about the depopulation of the rural world and the causes, I referred to the fact that one of the causes of depopulation was demographic behaviour resulting from the impossibility of having a good quality of life, economic stability or work and family compatibility in the rural world. He also said that the policies that have been carried out in the last 40 years in this regard have not been sufficient, because it is not enough to give money, it is not enough to build roads and it is not enough to bring about misunderstandings, but the people living in the rural world need housing policies, educational policies, health or infrastructure policies as well. That is why, when we see the law that we now have in force, of the year 98, on rural development, and we see that, in addition to the general objectives, it speaks of sectoral objectives linked to the diversification of the economic fabric, the planning of the territory, the objectives in the fields of education and cultural, health, housing, tourism, infrastructure or the environment, we realize that, in fact, the Rural Development Act is a fundamental instrument to deal not only with the depopulation of the rural world, but also with the development of that rural world. Also the rural development programmes that are born out of this law, since it itself establishes the procedure for its constitution and for its approval. But, to encourage the country development, I said we don't need money only, but we need money. And country development programs and plans that are accepted through the laws of development need money to achieve their goals. The question is, not only how it separates, that is, to whom it gives money, but how it is managed-that is to say, what they do with it and what they use it for. On the other hand, as far as Podemos is concerned, we have a clear and clear notion of the fact of the 21st. our model for the field-dependence of the century. Our agriculture and cattle must be worthy of the proper conditions of life; our agriculture and cattle must be productive of productive cattle, and they must be permanent, too, for the preservation of the land and environment. To do that, we need money and help, we need money and help for professional farmers, small farmers, women, and young people, even in the country world where we're working for the reforming and equality. As I said throughout my speech, money is a tool that allows us to get the rural model that each group is looking for or that as a country we should be looking for. But money is a tool; it must not become a goal. And the Rural Development Act itself, the new Rural Development Act, in turn, must also be a tool, and not a goal in itself. It is not a question of passing the Rural Development Act per se. That is why we look forward to the initiative of the People's Group. Certainly it is insufficient, but it introduces a nuance, which, of course, is important to our group. As we have said, the money used for rural development is public money and it is therefore essential that there be control mechanisms, guarantee mechanisms to see who is given, how is given and what is done with that money. Therefore, we will support – our group too – the proposal, even considering that the deadlines set in the second of the points will surely be difficult to meet, because the Government, once again, showing its lack of diligence, is also being delayed in this matter, in this respect. But, in any case, it is not too much, and it is important – and we have already done so in the transaction on the depopulation of the rural world – to remind them that they have not done their duties and that they have to present this bill as soon as possible and in full, so that the debate can be made possible here, in the parliamentary seat, before it is too late and another legislature passes without us having this very important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u66	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH team, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Good noon, everyone. We're here again, talking about the country development, and of course it's unpleasant, but I don't know if it's any good to bring him here again and again. It takes decisions, not just discussions. That's why today I'm going to try hard. My partner said the theme of the times. Indeed, the first thing I bring here is the times; I believe that measuring time is relative: it depends on who does it and how it does it. It has been 20 years since this law was introduced. I think we're a little late, because it's not a law change, it's a new one. We had to recognize that it was necessary. It has also been two years since the last strategic document, with these new lines, but it has been two years, two years since the draft was put forward, again. I think, at least, we're going a little slow. It has also been 15 days since we discussed the issue of depopulation right here, and it has also been a few days, three or four, since the preliminary draft was presented to us. That's how it was. So, for the time being, I think we are in time, we are in time to discuss the preliminary draft, but also to continue to call for the new Rural Development Act to reach, at least, the end of this year. The diagnosis – I think – we all have it clear, and 15 days ago we discussed it here among all of us; it is true that the forms were not the best and it is true that, from the initial basic proposition, what came out was, well, rather, a little a yes is not, right?, but it was not clearly seen the need to change this law to put on the table and a need to stop depopulation or even say that to revitalize the peoples or rural environment, for which it is absolutely necessary and essential this law. That we agree that the rural environment is empty, I believe that no one is questioning it; that the first sector is in decline, no one is questioning it either; that services are lacking, well; that we have to ruralise the departments of the Basque Government and of different institutions, also of the parliaments, and that we have to defend the land. That's the diagnosis in 30 seconds, and I think we can agree on that. But not everything is worth, I mean, we can continue here debating, we can continue here putting propositions not of law, but there are steps missing and steps missing, because I started over time: it is that it has been 20 years; it is that we dissolve in time. And Mrs López de Ocariz, I will recognize one thing: that while last week I thought that this proposal did not make much sense discussing it today, after hearing the question and the answer of the counselor, I understand that it is not only necessary, but that it is urgent, I would say. That the debate could be left, I thought, no, I was wrong; the debate is not left, and I do not think it will be left, much to my regret. Mrs Tapia's answer, well, I think she recognized a lot of things; she said that it was not enough to change the law, in fact, that the law was expired; she proposed it; that the process was being slow, because, well, it had counted on all the agents and that is what should be done, in fact; that a necessary contrasting, logical draft had to be made, and that there was a commitment to speed up the deadlines. I almost got the last sentence, with that commitment to speeding up the deadlines. Well, this week, Monday morning, we find the preliminary draft on the table. What makes me so at first glance is on the alert, because I see a preliminary draft as little that worries me. It doesn't matter here what we discuss, it doesn't matter what the counselor promises us, if when she puts a preliminary draft on the table, we see how suddenly tools disappear, how they create new tools, I don't know if to control or not, and it's true that we've only had three days to take a look at it, but the feeling of centralization, control and not letting the agents do it; that of endogenous I think we understand it just the other way around: instead of bottom up, we understand it from top to bottom. And then, I'm a little worried when I saw the draft. In that time-thinking thing of mine, we have a month to submit allegations to that preliminary draft, or have the agents a month. I think they're on time, and that's more, I asked them, from here, please, that someone do something and start putting forward proposals, because it's a preliminary draft that, at least, well, it questions what we have on the table. With the new Rural Development Act? Well, I'll tell you what. At the end of the year? Well, I would ask that this law be introduced as soon as possible, because, at the end of the year, I see that we are at the end of the legislature. I don't know if before or after, but it gives me the feeling that we're going to take a leap to the next, and the Rural Development Act, we're going to continue using the 20-year-old. The objectives, I think we agree that they are shared, that everyone in this House is concerned about how the rural environment and the primary sector is, but I believe that the forms and tools, including the capacity of the governance bodies to act, do not know if the vision is the same, do they? I will start by thinking that the rural development law already uses all the time "development" and all the time "sustainability", concepts that are used so much that they are almost losing some value and sense for overuse, nothing more. So I would already be talking about a rural cohesion law, which is what really – or the only thing – is going to ensure that the rural environment is maintained, but also the primary sector, of course, as the first manager is also maintained, but also as a guarantee that the urban part knows that it is there and where all the public money that comes from Europe and also from these houses is going. So I think we have to invest in rural cohesion; I am absolutely clear that it has to be a priority objective of the law. In the preliminary draft it names cohesion over and over again, but I believe that it must be put into practice. The aim of this law, the provision of essential resources to make life attractive in peoples, not only to make life attractive, but also to be able to make it attractive to work in peoples, the only formula to ensure that there, in peoples, we will remain someone. Of course, I'm going to end up... This law brings us opportunities; indeed, we ask or ask for time to debate, to enter into these amendments, and because I see that we are going to have a lot of work ahead. I was also saying this in the depopulation debate: I believe that a country strategy needs to be presented. I just don't understand it any other way. A country strategy to ensure that the rural environment is on an equal footing with the rest of the territory, so simple that it is not of the second division. So, well, we have to broaden the approach, that approach that arises, the very beautiful rural environment, yes, indeed; we have to count on all sectors, but the medium cannot fail to count on the primary sector as the first manager of the territory; but, well, as essential not only to manage, but also to eat. So, my approach is that we have to empower rural people as a guarantee of the future, too, and well, in principle we have not tabled amendments, we agree; we could have been a little more ambitious, but, well, I think we had discussed it 15 days ago: repeating the debates again is no good either, so that's what I'm staying with. To conclude, I only hope that this law may be admitted in this legislation, and that it is a law which answers, above all, the wants of the first sector, to those which the country has. That's just... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u68	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u69	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, the company of Uria, all the afternoons. "The country of the Euscal country contributes a great deal to the whole society, to the several characters: it produces nutrients and primary commodities, men of personality and of sanitarian support; it manages space, and manages natural resources, biology, and its landscapes. "The contribution of the community by means of these several functions will be proportioned to the place which is given in the sooconomical design of the people, and in the country to the field of eroscal. To this end, the relations of the community must be balanced, and the necessary conditions must arise for the attractive surroundings, which will stop depopulation, and which will enable the new inhabitants to attract their new activities. "However, it is clear that the essential equipment and services, such as education, health or housing, must be adapted, which, together with the lack of employment opportunities and the scarcity of income from agricultural-oriented economies, constitute a fundamental obstacle to the very survival of the rural environment, and hence to the multifunctionality it develops in favour of Basque society. "Integral development of the rural area desired by society is possible especially in a country such as Euskadi, with limited geographical extension and high average population density, which has a significant level of overall economic development. "In addition, there is a strong overlap of rural and urban spaces in some of our rural areas, which generates some drawbacks but at the same time presents positive aspects." What I have read is not mine, it is not mine; it is the preamble to the Rural Development Act 1998, which ends by saying: "To this end, an all-encompassing view of the rural environment, its problems and its functionality should be ensured, while positive discrimination of a general nature should be developed, allowing consideration to be given to the use of criteria of an economic nature or of minimum population thresholds for the provision of basic equipment. To this end, it is clear that the efforts of the Basque society as a whole are needed, the positive results of which will also benefit. "This law seeks to satisfy the need to articulate the instruments that, with the necessary flexibility, allow the coordinated projection of sectoral policies on a reality that, like that of the rural environment, transcends purely economic or productive aspects, and at the same time will strengthen coordination for decision-making and strategic programming in favour of the rural environment, bringing their application to the levels closest to the problems of the rural population". And so far I can read... I don't doubt that we'd all sign the bill today after 21 years... This shows that this law was advanced, that the law was right, and that the discussions about the country are still alive, about the necessity of making an active policy, and about the land-reproach. I'm sure there are those who ask – even those who say – that if the debate is still there 21 years later, it's because nothing has been done and we're still at the starting point. Wrong criterion of all error, while I invite you to analyze what has been done, what has been reversed, what has been worked out from the administrations to reach the point where we are today; to look at the peoples and their services in 1998 and to look at them in 2019; to compare and sincerely tell us. Now, does this mean that the matter is settled? No, no, But neither today nor in many years, because there will always be a service differential between urban and rural areas, there will always be improvements to be made, there will always be a centripetal tendency to accumulate people and services in large cities, and there will always be a tendency to abandon centrifugism and occupy rural peripheral areas. On the other hand, that law of 98, still in force today, I said it in another similar debate a couple of weeks ago – which we sometimes repeat more than garlic – was a very advanced law for your time. It was a law that started, a few months before the adoption of the law, from a Social Pact for the Development of the Basque Rural Area, and that conceived a text that turned rural development into a cross-cutting concept between administrations and within each administration, by ensuring that all legislation was informed by the inter-institutional body Landaberri, in order to correct it according to their rural vision. This rural vision consists of both the vision of territorial structuring and its mission of territorial justice, aspects that are the true key to the vault of any policy that is intended for rural development. That law that was unanimously passed gradually fell, not aging, which is still in force today. But it declined, to turn that illusion of the transversal vision into a neat concept that did not slow down the legislative capacities of each department or institution, which obviously forces us to think again about how to articulate it. I know that the Government has already begun its internal processing – as has been said here – and we hope that it will speed up this very long process that the Government has internally to adopt preliminary draft laws, so that as soon as possible it will come to this Parliament and we can update it again in a consensual way. That is why we support the motion, because we understand that it is reasonable and is looking for that. This, as I have said in the foregoing discussion, will be indispensable to the making of a new law the agreement between the centre of the city and the field. It will be a fundamental arrangement and a new compact, if the new laws are not only the best in the concepts which it employs, but it must be practical in its application. The law of '98 was a very good law. It has served, together with undoubted political wills, to make politics for the country development, which served to improve the places which are not really the city's. But something else is missing: it is wanting to admit of the world of the city that the field is a necessity, even if the capitals survive. As an example: it has taken a lot of time and effort to convince society that we have to address the environment as something essential to care for our own survival, even today there is still much to do. All we have to do is look at the United States. But, really, much progress has been made in social consciousness. And this has also allowed – and allows – the Administration, in all its areas and departments, to assume environmental policy as a policy to be considered within sectoral policies. Sustainability invades everything little by little. And if someone runs away from the concept, there will always be an administrative unit that reports across the board on what is being done, what is being intended to be done, from an environmental and sustainability point of view. For this should be addressed in rural development, to increase social awareness in this regard: that everyone, including urban people, assumes that territorial balance and, therefore, the necessary rural development are essential for the sustainable continuity of all. But not an idyllic rural environment, subject to higher controls from the urban world, not a rural environment as a reserve of what we once went to generate theme parks to visit on weekends. A living rural environment is needed, with endogenous capacities for growth and development, with own life, with services. That is the rural environment that balances the territory; the rest is a passive rural environment, occupying the territory, yes, but a reserve made by urban dwellers for the delight of urban dwellers. Adapting the law is certainly necessary. Making a good law is essential, but it will serve nothing for what is intended, without an awareness on the part of all of the need for an active rural world, living, structuring the territory. Nothing will work if the law is not an institutional and citizen pact on the rural environment. Nothing will do. In the background, with small adjustments, the 1998 law could be the flame needed. But for that flame to wear, the oxygen that feeds it is essential, and that oxygen is not another that we create it. The one in '98 started this way, but in a short time it lost its air. Let us do our utmost to ensure that this does not happen again, and that this motion itself is approved by genuine belief. I do not know whether it will be because my origin is rural or because of my experience in this whole subject; but, in short, if we do not believe each and every one of us, beyond concrete, correct words and phrases, if we do not achieve that the urban world, infinitely greater and more powerful than the rural one, creates the need for a rural world with its own life, for which we must implement rural justice, no matter how much precious law we do, we will achieve little more than silence our individual and collective consciences. You may have to work hard on Einstein's phrase that "look deeply at nature and then you will understand better", which is not to look superficially and it is not to look at a garden in the middle of the city, which, in general, is what we do; it is to look deeply, with reflection and with heart, and it is to look in nature, which is, in case you didn't know, what is in the countryside, what is in the rural environment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u70	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. From there to the turn of the answers, Madam Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u71	Yes, thank you, Madam President; if I may from the seat, briefly. Indeed, what would have happened if there had been no law? What would have happened if there were no development plans? What would have happened if there was no agrarian activity? The one we were talking about the cost of non-farming. I think it is incalculable; for me, it would be another country. So, let's get to work. I love to talk about rural development, rural cohesion; that's what I like most. I'm sorry, but that's what I like best. And then: what was it before, the egg or the chicken? I mean, why do we have the preliminary draft on the table? Sometimes, the opposition is very smart. We are very smart and we foresee what the Government is going to do, and then we present the initiative just 15 days before the Government transmits to us what we ask in the initiative. But it's because we're very smart; not for anything else. Therefore, thanks for the support for the initiative, and what is right is that as soon as we have the bill and that we can work and incorporate everything that – I think – in these years, from different areas, we have seen where it has failed and, of course, the local action groups and the local action groups' directive say it strictly: working down to up. And that, come on, I got it... We have had discussions here because it seemed to us that the local action groups did not respond to reality or to what the directive requires. And I believe that this occasion will be important so that we can introduce all those aspects that we have seen that have not contributed much to us in this period. And, as we have already seen, I think we can improve it, and I trust that we will improve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Anybody else want to talk? Since the discussion has ended, we shall put the original text of Mme. lópez de Ocariz's motion to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u73	So, unanimously, the original text has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, concerning the management of public associations in the capital of the euscal corporations. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr Becerra, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u74	Thanks again. Our team has always had the same attitude and the consistent part in this discussion of public cooperation. We have always been favorable to the existence of governments or institutions in enterprises, both in enterprises which are in difficulties, and in enterprises which are creating, and which we have always considered that it is the essential section of industrial politics to participate in these companies. Perhaps it was a question sometimes and sometimes not, why some people would give money and others not, and what were the standards of government either to interfere or not to interfere in the enterprise. Why? Because we understand that companies should be useful and that there should be private investors, but sometimes it's possible that this or that they're investors or they're not from public money, and they're not out of the question. But today's initiative doesn't go that way. Today we don't need to determine where we're going to put the money, but what we're going to put the money and what we're going to do with these involvements. The Basque Government has multiple financial instruments – it has venture capital funds, it has participative credits, programmes to give participative credits – which in the fund allow, on the one hand, to help companies in difficulty, it also helps companies that want to develop, or even, as is being said recently with the 250 million fund repeatedly announced, funds and aid to encourage the rooting of companies. But we believe that the objectives, the only objectives of the Basque Government's funds and the public participation of the Basque Government in business cannot be limited to such support. It must allow supervision, good management, and it must also allow rights of participation and consultation to be ensured in the templates set out in the Workers' Statute, in particular in Article 64. You will be able to ask whether it is really necessary to bring an initiative to this Parliament on this issue, and our group believes that it is. So, I'm going to put two examples that have happened in this very legislature: The first is that of the company Furniture Xey of Zumaia, which in summer 2017 fired 170 people. He entered a creditor's contest, with 30 million euros in debt. A contest that in January 2019, just a year and a half later, was found guilty by the Court of Mercantile No. 1 of Donostia, which in its judgment declared that the Company's Directorate committed relevant accounting irregularities, serious documentary inaccuracies in the number of fees charged to customers as well as the treasury, fraudulent outflows of goods to a number of companies linked to the managers of the contest and legal acts aimed at simulating a fictitious property situation. In this company, the Basque Government had invested 2.2 million euros; it had 30% of the shareholding. The Basque Government neither detected irregularities nor reported irregularities nor monitored the company's activities. The second example I'm going to give is that of the CEL paper mill, with plants in Artzinega, Zalla and Gueñes. A group that in 2016 had had a positive result of 1.2 million euros and that, however, at the beginning of 2017, stopped paying the light and raw materials, and in the summer of 2017, entered into competition with creditors, with 250 direct jobs put in sulfate. Well, the Basque Government had not 30%, but 40% of the company's shares. And when they are with the light cut off, when they are not paying for raw materials, the Basque Government, on May 18, 2017, sells its shares of this company. He also does it after meeting with the staff and without telling them that he was going to do it. The staff is assembled two weeks after that meeting, through the media. Shareholdings, shareholdings in companies, when they are made by an institution – and in this case it can be the Basque Government, it can be the Basque Institute of Finance, it can be the SPRI, whoever it is – has the status of public assets and, therefore, they are subject to good public management. From the point of view of our group, good public management of that heritage involves, first of all, worrying about how the company goes and how its accounts go, how its results go and its negotiation strategy – worrying, not getting involved, eye: I say it just in case. Secondly, to contribute to a lower labour conflict, mediation, information and participation of staff. Thirdly, to develop new business management models. Here I would like to bring the participatory inclusive model, which was unanimously adopted in this Parliament and whose explanatory statement, of that GNP, stated that the participatory inclusive model is not a matter of legal regulation or automatic, but that it is necessary to manage and work the culture for the change of model. And that requires the commitment of the top leaders of the company, and here we will have to include the Basque Government, when it is part of the shareholdership. And it said the inclusive participatory model that, for the effective implementation of such a model, it will be necessary to involve the accessions of the people who are part of the company and the interest of the unions, taking full advantage of the information and consultation skills that are attributed to the company committees in article 64 of the Workers' Statute: to worry about how the company goes, to contribute to a lesser labour conflict and to try to develop new modern models of business management. But also good management is not to disinvest when the company goes into difficulty; on the contrary, to maintain the investment to show the public support, the support of the institutions, to the companies that go worse. So we present our initiative today, and we wish to thank the EH Team for his position and his predisposition to a compromise. We signed a medium. The rest of the teams have no corrections, so we can't agree with them, but we offer them the agreement we've made. And in this agreement, we have four points, we offer four points to protect them today. One must be assured of the rights of the workers' consultation and cooperation. Secondly, that it is necessary to develop another model of management of the division, especially in the enterprises which are in difficulties. The third thing is, we've got to build up the business fund for all time and we've been delayed for almost two years without having any knowledge of that funds. And the fourth and the last, that he needs to reorganize the collection of investments he has, to be more efficient and efficient. I hope dugu taldeen babesa puntu hauetarako, eta, well, in principle, our willingness to continue working in this direction, regardless of what is coming out today, because the object of Elkarrekin We can not only take part in the companies – that we have made clear from the beginning, with consistency and insistence, I would say – but also the Basque Government is involved, which is not the same as interfering, in the management of those companies in which it participates, because giving capital to capital itself is not a sufficient condition for the success of the companies, and if it is to involve itself, if it is working side by side with the staffs, especially in those companies that are in difficulty. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u75	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing to the team that issued the correction. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u76	Good afternoon. Now that the nostalgia among the 40-year-olds has become a bit fashionable, an expression or saying has become widespread that "I went to EGB". I went to EGB, and like most of us who went to EGB, Saturday morning we saw a program called The Crystal Ball The Crystal Ball. I remember one of those movies. It was called The Incredible Man Dinging The Incredible Man Dinging But it's not just that the bottom is losing size, that the bottom is getting smaller and smaller. It is also changing in qualitative terms. There is a Twitter joke that consists of putting two photos in similar appearance but with important differences, and saying in the first "when you ask for it in AliExpress" and in the second "when you get home". AliExpress is a species of Amazon For those of you who haven't seen this kind of joke, we're more or less referring to this. "They won't see him from afar." You'll see two people in elegant sailor's uniform. From nearby I see that one is Richard Gere in Officer and Knight [Orri batzuk erakutsi ditu] [Orri batzuk erakutsi ditu] We were going to have a fund of up to 250 million to secure the root, and now we are told – the fund was public-private – that there is going to be a private private management fund, in which the government is going to invest 10 million. 10 million... This was said by Mr Azpiazu on Sunday. If you've seen me this morning in the parking lot And it is true that we are then talking about building up through other instruments, and we are talking about up to 50 million through the Basque Institute of Finance. But this supposes that the leitmotif of the mountains, born ridiculous mus He said in an interview Gabriel García Márquez that, when he read La Metamorphosis And I ask, can this be done in politics? Well, apparently it can be done, but I'd say it shouldn't have been done and it shouldn't have been done. We, as a people, have very great challenges in industrial order. Only the Arkbanks will do what he's done, to face what he's done and what he's doing, hundreds of millions of dollars. Hundreds of millions. In 2015, Kutxabank's equity portfolio was 2.9 billion. [Orri beat erakutsi du] And also in one of these memoirs that account for the divestments, it is mentioned – in 2015, specifically – that one of the most outstanding performances of 2015 has been closely linked to the launch of Euskaltel, in which Kutxabank has played a very important role, maintaining itself as the company's main shareholder. They still sold it as a victory. Then we have seen, from these dusts, the sludges that have arisen. And when the Arkbank converts hundreds of millions of millions, we with 10 million in a fund, and with 50 million we'll get nothing in another fund. When the government made an investment in the CAF last January, we know that it was time to find out that it had been a favour in the chest, unprofited and without any effect of reflection, as the government said at that moment that it wanted to send a message with that investment, a serious message of commitment, a travel and an investment to activate it, and that the government demonstrated its seriousness. We believe that if the government has shown anything in this whole process of seriousness, innocence, lack of direction, the government is involved in improvisation, and cannot say that the media or opposites misinterpretate what they say. In the government program, the tracking files of the government programs, to guarantee the romance, and the words are their own: "Para tarntizar el ehigo, 250 million." "Si te he visto, no me acuerdo." When we saw the investment of CAF, because we thought it was a ploy, though the investment wasn't in the right place, all that was around it (provision, perspective, etc.), we brought to this Chamber to make an agreement, and it was our will to make a deal, and we made a deal. In this arrangement, a leaf of the road was marked, a leaf of the road very light in the shops and in the forms, even in the contents. And I, because I have been examining this plenon's transcription, being at that time more innocent than I am now, said: For once we've brought the light, for once people will know what the road is, and at last the discussion about the substance is directed. As I was saying, I was young and innocent last year, and what really happened has nothing to do with what was agreed on. And I ask again: Can this be done? Yes, it is possible: To break up an arrangement made, without explaining it. And then you'll tell us that we don't trust the EH Collectors, we don't have words, we don't know how to make politics, potatoes, potatoes. We've seen it with Euscalels, Ibermátics, Games, ITP, what can happen to us? What can happen to us, when we haven't even got the trunk shelter we had before. When the chest rolls back in regard to the wallets of the divised ones, even though he asks us to do it again and again from this legislature. We believe it and ask it again with the medium we've made here today: We demand light, seriousness, responsibility, respect for society, respect for respectable investors, respect for those who can share in it, respect for the legislative, respect for other political motives... And we demand transparency, we ask you to make decisions, we ask you to do things the right way. The question is not only by what instrument we shall do it, but we must answer this challenge with all possible force, because public investments must increase; otherwise, the shooting of our troops is in danger. In the making of public investments, we must guarantee that they are respected in invested enterprises by forms and forms, as has been said before. What do we do, for instance, the expression of the oñatic, about the worthiest work? Why do we try to force an inclusive, inclosive pattern, then a company, even in a small measure, if we are not able to encourage it; I do not say that to remove it from top to bottom, but to push it, or with a principle that is planned in such declarations as these to have it as compasses? Things have gone very badly, and I don't think there's any prospect to change it. Three-quarters of the law have gone round this famous fund, I think, wasting time. And we're truly saying, sadly, we don't trust the government to change direction. Last week the sects supporting the government refused to redeem a treaty signed by themselves. Today, again, one point of the middle course is that, and I suppose they will do the same. Then we'll see who has the word and who doesn't.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u77	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the non-correction teams, representing the Basque Potion Group, Mr. Dammit, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u78	Well, if you don't mind Mr Becerra and Mr Casanova, I think the debate was a different one, I think, because, Mr Becerra, you tell us that today we discuss where the money is put and for what, and your initiative said: "The Basque Parliament urges the government to ensure compliance with Article 64 of the Workers' Statute". As far as I know, this article does not say at all where money is put and for what, but quite the contrary: it is the right of trade unions to have information about companies. And you were telling me, is it necessary to bring this? What you brought, for I considered not, because, if in any company it is not done, the logical thing is that it is denounced by the trade union of turn, that it thinks that they have deceived it or that they have not given it the information that, according to the Statute of the Workers, it is up to it to receive. That's why I thought the initiative you brought us wasn't necessary. But, of course, let's see... I am not going to reject the debate that you are putting before us, but it says: and I am going to give examples of why it is necessary to bring it. And he goes and he sets me the example of a company that, in your opinion, has deceived the workers, the shareholders, the representatives of the Basque Government, who have not heard of anything, and then, he urges the Government... Let's see, when there's a filibuster somewhere or someone cheating somewhere, you don't guarantee that because you see that the law is being enforced or that the Basque government is complying with the law, if they're also cheating on the Basque government, as you explained here today in one of those companies. And there is a novelty in the transaction that you sign, because it says: and that participations are not sold and is involved in finding solutions when the company goes wrong. Hey, even though you've been fooled? Because, as you rightly say, the Basque Government's shares in companies are the property of all Basques, and the Basque Government's first obligation is to ensure that they do not lose that property, and less that they steal it. And I cannot agree with this that you are asking us as a novelty in this compromise amendment that you have put forward; for it will depend on what cases and it will depend on how, and it will depend on what happens; at best, you have to go out by legs in the minute one. Or what? Or the Basque Government... I, of course, do not authorize the Basque Government to waste my tax money on an unworkable company, and less so that bad, or fraudulent, administrators, as you have told us. And then what else do you want me to say? Let's see, the bottom. The fund was not even in the initiative, but, Mr. Casanova, to see, Mr. Casanova, the root, the fund... Well, I didn't quite understand the counselor's statements, but if I follow his argument, what he has to do is take out 10 million, because in CAF, which was theoretically the beginning and had put 20, if he's only going to put 10 left 10; I'd take out 10. And brought to the extreme their argument, we would be in that situation, and I do not think that is the approach the Government is taking. And, in any case, listen, about the fund we approved last week; we approved it last week, and it's supposed to come in July. If it goes wrong, if it has not been approved; but, of course, I also said last week: we have never defended a fund to keep companies non-competitive and that they do not work, and you, Mr Becerra, also said that you agreed that you should not stay in non-competitive companies and that they do not work, but then you start making exceptions and they are all. Of course, that's a small problem, when the exception is generality. Perhaps there could be some exception in some cases because the benefit can be reversed in another way, but it is clear that the fund that we all support from the beginning is slow, it is very slow; I do not know if it will meet the expectations that it had. I have not seen any tax benefits for those who want to invest there anywhere. With this, it is clear that if we want it to be public-private and private participation, the private will not participate in order to lose money. Come on, I say, unless they're from EH Bildu and Elkarrekin We can, of course, be willing to lose their money to keep certain companies, even if they are not very profitable. And I, therefore, in the end, as I did not consider necessary... and that, if any company breached article 64 of the Workers' Statute, what the company committee had to do was report it directly, tell the government to comply with the law, that it is not the government. Because you were talking about government representatives in those companies; it is the company that has that obligation to do so. And if it doesn't, the unions have a responsibility to report it to the judiciary, to report it to the appropriate courts. But this has become another debate. I believe that, as the initial initiative did not give much of itself, it has been transformed into another debate. You haven't brought us where you put the money and for what. I already tell you for what and where: in profitable, only in entables. If they're not profitable, I'd rather get out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u79	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u80	Yes, thank you, President. Let's see: today we had to see or discuss an Elkarrekin initiative We can that was presented in October 2017; that is, it wasn't yesterday. At the time, we were dealing in this House with the transparency of government programmes, the instruments it had for public funding. And Mr Becerra blamed the government for an absolute opacity in the management of these financial instruments: lack of information, mismanagement, not even the Parliament or the companies... And here we are asking today that the government's mismanagement act as a defence for the works councils so that they have information, better consultation, on the part of employers, in those companies in which the government is involved. Well, as a surrealist, he's got half a pass. But as something that is going to be new or that we can do with our action in today's vote in this House, frankly, I have not just seen the meaning of it. And Mr. Casanova said, no, the issue is very serious... And Bildu also tabled an amendment in October 2017, which had nothing to do with that amendment that you are having sex with today; I understand that time is passing and that we have to adapt things, but, in the end, do not think you are too naive, that we have realized... They have tried to take advantage of something that has neither feet nor head today to take a look around and talk again about the issue of the financial instruments of the Basque Government. And Mr Casanova said that the fund is very important, but it is that you do not marry the claim you have of the article of the application or guarantee that the Government has to give, of the application of article 64 of the Workers' Statute. And Mr. Casanova, who has the habit of having us entertained at the beginning of his speeches, because, finally, to give a little dynamism to this, especially for the hours that are and so that we do not have a sugar drop... Well, of course, we go back, again, to reiterate the subject we have been dealing with, if memory doesn't fail me, a few months, and even a few years ago. And, look, you have come to a compromise proposal, which simply becomes the anthology of the Basque Government's participation in Basque companies, taking into account the financial instruments: And I say anthology, because, at the first point, it is the one that has to do with the subject of Article 64, because, finally, as I said, it is that we cannot ask the Government to guarantee something that the Government does not want. At the second point of your transactional amendment, I say this to you because you talk about the participatory inclusive model, and look, what a coincidence, but we talked about this on September 12, 2017, on September 27, 2018 and the last part of this second point we dealt with when we talked about companies that had difficulties and the intervention of the Basque Government. He also agreed to this plenary session. The third point of its transactional amendment is agreed on 22 February 2018 and 6 June 2019. And the fourth point we approved in this House on November 15, 2017. Let's see: if it's about making partial agreement compilations according to our interest, then it's worth octopus as a pet. If what they're trying to do is put us on the threshold of "now see what they're going to vote when they get this deal in their day," then no, no. These agreements remain in force, because they are part of the agreements that this House has adopted during this parliamentary term and that no one has decided that they have lost effect, no one, because we have not raised any agreement against them. So, don't cheat. Don't cheat... Say that today they needed an initiative; Mr Becerra has brought us one from Elkarrekin Pode from the year 17, and to see if, well, we talk about the issue of funds, so, look, we also update the matter. And it has nothing to do with his initiative or the amendment Bildu had in 2017 with the transaction they have arrived at today, a transaction that already has agreements and resolutions of this House for each of the points. I therefore believe that the debate has indeed been rather fictitious. That has, to some, to me in particular, made them refresh the memory; it is how good these things have. And you go until the year 17 and, man, look, we have agreements, and you're refreshing; okay. That's what it can do. But you can tell me that by leaving this House, and we have the same effect. I believe that the important thing today is that we have managed to reach consensus on why and for what a public-private fund. And that why and why and the conditions that this fund has to have are fucked and approved by a sufficient majority in this House. We know that this fund is for tractor companies, for strategic companies in Euskadi. Therefore, let us stop dizzinessing; I beg you, because it is a rather vain, rather useless effort... Because your initiative, Mr Becerra, does not move us forward; it does not propose any progress; because the Bildu amendment of 17 did not propose any progress either, and because the amendment that you have reached, to the compromise that you have reached today, does not propose any progress. Those points were already adopted, except for the first, the issue of article 64 of the Staff Regulations, which did not come into play, which did not take place. Because the Government must not only respect, but also respect all existing regulations. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u82	Thank you, ma'am. President, Chief, congressmans. Good noon, everyone. Peculiar, peculiar initiative. So peculiar that, I don't know, we saw it and neither did we present it, and we usually present it all. And we thought until recently that you had already sent sleep to sleep the just this initiative, but we see no. If this non-law proposal, Mr Becerra, had been a good wine, it would already be a reservation today. But since it is not a wine or good, today it is a much worse initiative than it was two years ago. It only smells like wood, the wood from your desk drawer. Or not? It also smells like Trojan horsewood. It smells like Trojan horsewood; it is an initiative – already mentioned – cheating, the use of deception. Bring back those things that were already dealt with, bring back those things, as Mrs Corcuera has said, on which there is already agreement; second, third and fourth points of the compromise text, which you have already agreed. I think it also has another objective; I think it has the objective of getting Mr Telleria out of this debate, who was going to come out here as a doberman surely. I think he's got that goal too. And the only novelty that you have what you were asking us and what you continue to ask us at the first point is that; it is the first point of the current text, which are the two points of your original initiative. And he's not gonna lose me. Mr. Casanova, birlibir him to yours today, birlibir him to yours. Your justification, I do not forget your justification in your day, your justification. You said or told us in your justification that the 17-20 Industrialization Plan uses different financial instruments. Okay... Of all the instruments, you are more interested than others: capital contributions and participative credits. It gives me that feeling, and so on and so forth. Why are you so interested in these instruments? Because they involve entry into the ownership of companies, even – you say – they may involve access to management boards. Okay, but you see this as a but. As the policy of the Basque Government is – and I quote – "to take minority and temporary participations", this in practice means that little weight is given to the shareholder or the representative body when it comes to the boards of directors. And this little weight implies that strategic decisions cannot be conditioned, and you come today, relax a little, come to this rostrum, and say, "No, I don't say get in the way." No, no, you say conditioning strategic decisions; you say controlling, you say intervening, intervening in those entities. When I read the lines of action of the Basque Government in the Industrialization Plan, I don't read that. Leo support, leo support, leo boost, enhance, promote, develop, reinforce, traction... and I note that these lines of action are getting more industry, that industry is getting closer to 25% of the Basque economy's GDP; they are getting better industry: industry 4.0, widespread improvement in competitiveness, connection between business needs and availability of professional profiles, and they are getting a more efficient industrial policy. All this is helping us to achieve the objectives related to the well-being of Basque citizens: more employment, more wealth and better distribution of it. The Basque Government is moving forward in its objectives, and you are two years into your drawer – in your wooden drawer – with your great reserve initiative there, thinking about controlling. More of your justification... Well, as you can't control, these gentlemen, those who represent on those boards of directors to the General Administration, at least to tell us the wrong decisions – because it seems that the decisions of the Basque companies are always wrong – and to mock the evil intentions of the boards of directors, and take one more leap and I will quote you. I quote: "In addition, this situation of ignorance is contrary to the provisions of the Workers' Statute", which is the subject of today, and this statement you write is very serious. You may have preference for a few lines of action – and you have them – and that is lawful. The Basque Government may have – and has – preference for others; also lawful. I can think – and I think –: less evil that these ladies and gentlemen rule, and that you do not rule... And it's also lawful. But what is not lawful is to lack the truth. And when you say – no, no – when you write, when you write: "In addition to this situation of ignorance is contrary to what is laid down in the Workers' Statute", you are assuming that the obligations laid down in article 64 of the Workers' Statute are generally not fulfilled, and that is to fail the truth. We were submitting a text for consideration – today we are submitting another, today we are submitting another; but, at the first point, it contains the two parts that were previously separated. In the first part, it urged the Government to ensure compliance with article 64 of the Workers'Statute. A previous issue, the fulfilment of the obligations referred to in that article, is independent of the participation that the Basque Government may have in an enterprise; it is binding. When I first read this initiative, I was quick, because it's something... It's a bad habit – I admit it – and I thought that we could also propose "one that continues to guarantee compliance", because I am aware that the Department of Labour and Justice fulfils those obligations in the area of its competence. But seeing the false scenario, the false scenario that you mark in your justification, I will always vote against this text. I do not consider myself a fervent advocate of the Workers' Statute; I believe that it has some confusing, insufficient and ambiguous regulations many of them, but being the regulation with which we have to work today and enhancing what is positive in it, I believe that the importance of collective bargaining can be increased as a more effective tool for defending and improving working conditions. And I firmly believe that we must not limit ourselves to negotiating the convention, but we must work day by day on the implementation and improvement of the negotiated, and on that day by day the rights of information and consultation, which is the real subject of today, are of vital importance. The impact of European Directive 2002/14, establishing the general European framework for information and consultation of workers, is based on the view that information and consultation rights, exercised sufficiently in advance, are a precondition for the successful adaptation of companies to the new conditions they face. Thus understood, the rights of information and consultation are the basic tool of a participatory trade union action, and, with the approach you take in this initiative, you are usurping workers' representatives their competences in this field. It's very serious, Mr. Becerra... All regulations, not Article 64, all Title II are charged. The second part of the first part, today. In the second point of the text before it, he urged "the Government to establish ways of direct dialogue between the representatives of the Basque administration on the board of the company and the legal representation of the workers in it". We're talking about the secret duty of the administrators here. Article 228 of the Capital Societies Act makes it clear: "Keeping the secret about information, data, reports, background (...) is inherent in the performance of his or her duties, of the administrators, even when he or she has ceased in it". And it says the same article: "... except in cases where the law permits or requires it." 64, to which you refer, is one such case, is one such case. That is, and according to 65.2, that duty of secrecy is extended to the committee; it can be extended to the committee. Taking into account the articles regulating this issue in the Law on Anonymous Companies, that of the stock market, I would draw a conclusion: all administrators are subject to the duty of secrecy, being irrelevant the structure of the administrative body. When you write that the Basque Government establishes direct channels of dialogue between those who act on the board as representative of the Administration and the representation of the staff, I would like to know what materialization has that concept, its concept of a channel of intermediation, of direct interlocution. What do you mean, what can they talk about? Or does it refer to what the second paragraph of 64.1 says?: "The transmission of the data by that representative – in this case from the Basque administration on the board of directors – to the works council, so that it – the committee – becomes aware of a particular issue and can proceed to its examination". Clarify it to me. Make it clear to me! That's what we're discussing today... I tell you that the capacity is the employer's, says the Workers' Statute, and I already anticipate that it is not delegated matter. Don't play track or birlibirloque. In any case, I would also like you to answer this question: – yes, a second, Madam President – if there is such a flagrant and widespread breach and with such relevance and you have in your drawer a tool as important as this one, why have you waited two years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u83	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u84	The truth is that I'm a little surprised by this little tones between mockery and condescending that some groups often use in other people's interventions. But it is true that I am less and less surprised, because it is often linked to debates in which there are no arguments, and therefore they flow from the other side. You see very gravely that we propose that the provisions of the Workers' Statute be complied with, because we have set some example in which it has not been complied with. However, they do not find it serious that these decisions cause 170 people to stay on the street. That's not too bad... It is very serious to fail to comply with the law, but it is not very serious to keep a lot of people on the street, precisely because the Government has not done its duty at the time. I have said in writing in our proposal that, in fact, the Government almost always has minority and temporary participations, and is therefore not an administrator. You've told me everything about the duty of secrecy is for whoever runs the company. When the Basque Government decides to sell 40% of shares in a company and has a meeting with the staff and does not notify it, it is not breaching any obligation of secrecy. None. None, Mr. Aiartza. It just goes past the template. Pass the template. Pass the template! I, indeed, Mr Damborenea, do not want the government to lose its heritage. On the contrary, I want the government to manage its assets well. There are multiple asset recovery procedures where the Government understands that its money has been misused. Nor is the Government diligent in that. In Alfa Lan he put a lot of millions – more than 10–, the management team split, according to the money received, with a hand of 2.5 million euros, and the government never asked for accounts on that. And there we could meet, and I agree with you. We could meet there, but the government is dedicated to giving the money, and then does nothing else. He doesn't do anything else; he doesn't care about anything else. We're late, actually. It took us almost a year and a half to present this initiative, precisely because as soon as we presented it, the Government announced its 250 million euro fund, and we said: we are not going to condition the first debate, which is to form a fund with which we agreed; we are not going to condition the debate where that money is going; we are going to wait for that fund to arrive, and then we talk. So listen, year and a half later, we have been more diligent than the Government. Did we take a lot of time? Well, we've still gone ahead of the government; look. Because, in fact, the Government still does not present its fund. It is true that the lehendakari announced on June 10th that Euskadi will activate the fund to enter strategic groups. And Mr Lehendakari, textually, according to news reports, said: "We already have the previous studies that will allow us to take part in Basque companies". Well, the same day Mr. Lehendakari made that statement, it was published, on the Irekia platform. –6 months, i.e., it is delivered on 10 November – to report on an economic root fund in the Basque Country. Does that ring a bell? This is the fifth time since the creation of a fund has been announced and the recruitment platform of the Basque Government has not yet been contracted and the legal reports needed to launch it have not yet been received. He's cheating on people once more, again. How can you say, Mrs Corcuera, that the agreements are being respected? In the agreement that you signed with Mr Casanova – and I understand perfectly well the goat that Mr Casanova may have, because we already said that we did not subscribe to that agreement until we saw the fund, and I see that we did well – the second point, to which we condition all our abstention, said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to present to Parliament the proposal for public-private investment within the framework of the first half of this year". This year, 2018. Where's the bottom? What have you done with what you signed with Mr. Casanova? Nothing. It seems very good to me that you have an exceptional rascal before our proposal; I have nothing to say to that. But what I think is that the lack, the absence, of industrial policy of this government is clamorous. That you Socialists are silent is serious, but what I do think is that the Group of the European People's Party, which has so far shown quite a lot more common sense, should not continue to be an accomplice to all this. Because in a year and a half we've had La Naval, but we've already got Euskaltel, we've got Siemens, we've got ITP, and I'm going on and on and on... And we don't do anything in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u85	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u86	Well, I should start by celebrating that the initiative will be approved, in accordance with what Mrs Corcuera has heard, because she has reviewed all the points from one to the other, and she agrees or is already approved with her votes, because I imagine she will repeat the vote, right? Or do you already give it up for approval? Well, they're going to vote. It wouldn't be the first time you've voted repeatedly in the same direction, they wouldn't be breaking... If it is true what you have said, that everything is approved and everything is going well and everything is going to be fulfilled, vote in favour, and the initiative, at least, already has a majority to move forward. It is true that there has been a transmutation: he spoke before the AliExpress and so on; this motion also – or this non-law proposal – has changed from its original wording to the transactional one, which is being raised here today. I recognize that without any packaging. I am not the proponent of PNL and therefore do not manage the times. I made the corresponding amendments within the time limits, but it is true that there was now an opportunity to reach a compromise and to update content, and, without renouncing the original content, to update content and put it in connection with issues that are urgent and that are indeed related to the core of the motion, which is how the Basque Government invests and how it manages its investments. From that logic, new aspects have been introduced, and new ones on something fundamental. I think we have to explain to the most elementary: One thing is how you manage, Mr Damborenea, a company in crisis, and if there is a time when you have to invest capital in a company in crisis. That goes down a lane... Another thing is the venture capital and the capital that is put at the start of a business adventure, with which one wants to contribute to the growth of that company. And another thing is the strategic investment in already consolidated companies, in which we are interested to be present to ensure the root. There are three different things, and, as we are talking about different things, what we need are different instruments, and, as there are different instruments, there is a system of instruments. And that system of instruments has to be updated and it has to be harmonious, because it is precisely a system. And what we are asking of the Basque Government is clarity about that. What's the system? What is the proposal for an investment system at different levels of support for firms in crisis, support for start-ups through venture capital, or support for the rooting of strategic enterprises? Let him do it clearly. Because when we talk about a 250 million fund for public-private rooting, and now we are talking about a private fund in management and in majority composition, in which the Basque Government makes an investment of 10 million, I understand that you do not know it, it is that same day that I had not read the newspaper, but this government communicates with this Parliament, even when you had an agreement in which you talked about this fund, because it communicates through the newspaper. And you have to be careful, because, if not, we don't lie down. And that's where he put 10 million; 10 million, said Azpiazu. And then there must be a strategic instrument, because this is going to be venture capital, as Mr Urkullu also said. Risk capital isn't investing in Euskaltel, it's not investing... It would have been at the time in Más Móvil, but investing in Euskaltel is not venture capital. Investing venture capital also has a deadline because it has deadlines... We're talking about different things, and that's why we need different instruments. We need clarity and rigour; but, of course, to give clarity to others, we must first have clarity ourselves. And what I think is that this government doesn't have the clear stuff, and it's improvising, it's improvising... And we have come to a final version of the background that makes it unrecognizable, which looks like the original, as Paquirrin looks like Richard Gere; it looks very little, in the envelope, but in the background it is absolutely different. And of the covenants, indeed, Mrs Corcuera says that some things are signed: of course they are signed, but they are not fulfilled. It's like someone has a debt and he says he pays it with a check without a fund, or he gives it a note saying, "I'm going to pay you 20,000 euros." And when I ask him for the 20,000 euros: "No, no, if I've already left you the paper...". But you didn't pay me. If I come to an agreement, the aim of that agreement is not to stamp the signature on a paper, it is to develop that agreement and to put it into practice, and if it has not been put into practice, I have the right and the obligation to demand it, or, in any case, to give an explanation of why it has not been, why it has not been possible, an explanation. Because, the agreements, indeed, it is good to sign them, but pacta sunt servanda The agreement we signed, the agreement we signed – because I return to Mr Damborenea –... The fund that is going to be presented is not the fund that you agreed on, because you said: that the fund that has repeatedly been announced since the beginning of the legislature is to be presented, and that is not the fund that they are going to present to us, is that they are telling us that it is not, that there has been a change. So, of course, how do you want us to come here? Well, with a smile, because we don't have another remedy, but they're giving us the change. And I return to the core of the question, that this is not a fight between parties. This is a fundamental problem in this country, which we have already seen how it is failing in fundamental challenges, how it creates little employment and poor quality; like that there is a breakdown in birth, like that we are going back to forced marches in R & D, like that industry can not gain weight in GDP, like that wages are where they least grow: it is the community where they least grow in the state. And now we also have that in the industrial sphere we are at the door – or are already living – a serious problem of loss of business roots. And before that, we've been three years – as my aita used to say And in the meantime, Euskalteles, ITPs, gamers and so on are marching, and I say to see if, by putting ourselves in this tone, we can get some kind of reaction or, at least, that the government is worthy of giving us some kind of real explanation, not in the newspaper, but through some kind of documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u87	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. I wasn't planning on going out, but they called me an accomplice, and my thing is more execution. And I say that for comment, Mr. Becerra... Let's see, you've put... He tells me to go back to the beginning. The example you have given us of how the trade unions have been deceived and the representatives of the Basque Government in that company have not learned anything. Hey, and if they didn't find out anything, how would they explain anything to the unions? Nobody heard anything, did they? Because, you see, there were people putting their hands in the box, doing illegalities. So, what do you want? Your proposal doesn't fix anything. Moreover, his proposal is contrary to the Workers' Statute, because the statute says that the company has an obligation to communicate to the works councils that; not a scumbag member of the council, and then another and then another and then another. That's not what the Statute says... That's something else, and you know it perfectly well. Man, it was Mr Casanova himself who spoke of transmutation of the initiative in the debate we are having. So, so, well, we're talking, not what you brought in, but what we're talking about... See, I don't confuse venture capital, which as its own name indicates (risk), because the investment may go wrong. But that's yours. That's yours. In any aspect of life, and more so in that of a company, and if it is called venture capital, it is because it is betting on certain companies to see if they leave and, obviously, over time you leave the capital of those companies. But here we are being mixed venture capital, on the one hand, and the investment fund of the principle of the legislature, on the other, which had nothing to do with one thing or another. And of course, Mr Casanova tells me: and do you trust the Basque Government? Who, me? I am also the least suited to say that I trust this Basque Government. Because perhaps I am the one who has reached the most agreements with this Basque Government, and I am also the least suitable to say this. However, last week, the Basque Government approved the creation of this fund, as was said in its day, next July. I'm not going to believe him for now. Well, it's next month. If they had told me within the first semester of next year, then I certainly didn't believe them. But, of course, if you tell me it's July, we'll give you that margin. We've been giving him a year and a half or two years, practically since it was the announcement of the legislature that this fund was created, well, I trust what I trust. What I do hope is that this fund is really what it was supposed to be. And that, of course, it must have sufficient and necessary resources to do so. What I am not seeing is that the government, along with the parliaments, are raising – and they had to be from now on – what tax benefits, if we want private investors, they will have in that fund. Why is someone private going into that public-private fund? That's the first one. And, of course, it has to have profits and returns and, of course, it is for the root of companies and for our companies to grow. But if the problem that many companies don't come here have is because, in the end, let's say that they have historically been mistreated from a certain bench. Second, fiscally, this isn't solvent, because it depends on where you are, suddenly things change for you, and usually it's not for good. And third, of course, politically people are interested in being in a place with some institutional stability. And neither are you a guarantee of that at all, but all the countenance. That does not favor companies coming or staying the ones they are. And you know it as well as I do. You just have to look at what happened in Catalonia not so long ago, from where 2,000 companies left. Catalans, look, can afford it; because, as they do not collect, the effect is not important. But if that happened to us here, the next day we'd have to close the window, the blind, of this house.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u89	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u90	Thank you, President. Let's see, Mr. Becerra, without any mockery, if he said so for me; in case, he wanted to confirm it. Look, you have a problem and your group also has a problem, which at least I have detected for a long time now: It is because you do not agree with anything, nor with the industrial plan, nor with the industrialization plan, nor with the entrepreneurship plan, nor with anything at least that has to do with what the Committee on Economic Development and Infrastructure is, of course, with you, the demons, because, of course, you do nothing. Hey, and with the initiative you proposed today, can you tell me what we're doing? What progress would we have made if it were approved that the Basque Government should ensure, through its participation in companies, compliance with Article 64 of the Workers' Statute? You want to tell me, in addition to pure voluntarism, what progress would we have made? Well, just like you put a stick in those initiatives that you're approving Elkarrekin Podemos, because I don't think about it anymore. I'm telling you with total sincerity. Look, in 2017, in addition to the Industrialization Plan, an agreement was adopted, a resolution, in which we urged the Basque Government to review the existing financial instruments and industrial aid programmes, in collaboration with the various economic and social actors, to increase their effectiveness in consolidating present and future industrial employment, guaranteeing credit to SMEs and boosting productive investment in sustainable strategic sectors. Of course, that is not for you; because, as we have adopted some resolution other than another, but you had practically made an amendment to the whole – I think I remember that you tabled the amendment to the whole of the Industrialization Plan – because of course, it is not for you either. A resolution is a resolution. And you make a mistake, and you keep insisting. But he still doesn't take steps forward. We're not moving... And we are not moving forward with the amendment you have had sex with Bildu. I keep saying this: it is due to agreements that have already been adopted by this House. They do not go further, they do not go half a step further than what this House has already agreed. And, Mr Casanova, I am obviously not going to approve it. Let's see, our function is not to be here reiterating to the satisfaction the agreements that we have already adopted, to see if in one we have been wrong and goes and hangs one of those that you want to bring in. That this doesn't work that way, that this is something more serious and you know it. What do you mean if you approve of it because it's already approved and clearly you're not going to contradict it? Listen, at this same time I could still pass, but really take us for someone or people a little smarter. Because we have realized that neither what you proposed in 2017, nor what you propose now, agreed with Podemos, gives anything, let's say no progress, does not seek the development of anything, nor of that public-private fund that you are so concerned about, nor absolutely nothing at all. The measures for an inclusive participatory model are already being taken; we cannot be repeating every day or every Thursday the same agreements that we have reached. Because you are in a kind of triler game: as I do not get the complete amendment, so let's see if I take something, and no. No, because it can't work that way. When I don't like it, I don't take part in the vote. Of course, it's just that we're playing with a little weird game rules all day. I would ask them to have a little more consideration with us, to bear in mind that a few weeks ago – not weeks ago – Elkarrekin Podemos also talked about that public-private fund and raised public banking. It's just that he doesn't agree with the public-private fund... But how do you sign something you don't agree with? You want public banking, and you said it, Mr. Becerra, loud and clear. So, I want to tell you that what they wanted with the 2017 initiative has nothing to do with today, that many steps have been taken, that in this House we have worked – and hard – to reach agreements and consensus, and that, therefore, nothing to reiterate: all said and agreed. Another thing is to execute and develop it. And for that we are convinced that we will never be able to count on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Finally, Eucabertarians, Lord Aianzia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u92	Well, Mr. Casanova, we agree on two things today. Unbelievable. We agree that you are transmuting: metamorphosis and those things, and transmuting your initiative and your amendment. And, besides, I like it and I will point it out: it is transmuted based on the urgent current. That's what we're going to point at; that's very interesting. We agree that they are transmuted. And we agree – I agree – with you that this is not a fight between parties; these are two conceptions, two conceptions of industry, of labor relations, of labor law... Yeah, yeah. From what I'm seeing in what you sign today, yes. But, well, we agree on two things; yet I will not vote with you, don't worry. The shapes, Mr. Becerra, the goat and all. I don't know if I was saying... I think I wasn't saying it for Mrs Corcuera, I think you can't say it for me either: I'm not mad; I'm disappointed, disappointed with your initiative, but not mad at all. Of the two questions I have raised to you, of the two questions I have said to you "please tell me this", you have not clarified either of them, and they are the key to your original initiative and the first point, which is the only novelty that goes into this debate... If you ever want to, I'll be clear. It also says, "Failure to comply with the law." The Government does not fail to comply with the law, the Government does not fail to comply with the law, of course, and an enforced law such as this is being enforced by the Government. He's doing it. "Going from the staff," this too... This almost upsets me, "passing the staff," is a very serious accusation. The Government cannot go beyond the staff: it does not go beyond the staff and it cannot go beyond the staff, because it does not go beyond the enterprises, it does not go beyond the enterprises, and the staff are part of the company. Because it respects, because this government respects companies and, to the extent it can, encourages them, empowers them, encourages their activity; that is what this government is doing, which means not moving from the workforce, but pushing, encouraging... these templates, with this goal of employment and quality in employment; it does not happen. But what about you? And what do you do? You, as far as companies are concerned, are trying to control them, as you tell us. Yeah, yeah, that's how he writes it to us, that's how he writes it to us, and then he comes here, right? A little bit, transmuting a little bit. No, no... I have read it; I have read it many times. Be decisive in those decisions in this way: control. And with regard to the templates, you do what you do with the initiative, what you are doing, is to protect the representatives and representatives of the templates, of the workers. Yes, yes... protection. With that initiative, you take care of it. You have read the manuals of workers' representatives, you have once read a manual of workers' representatives, who usually handle trade unions and move between them, where you explain how they have to exercise those rights and what obligations they are subject to. You take that away from them, and you put them, clan, their initiative. In any case, you've ended up saying, "We don't do anything in this country." Speak for yourself, not for this government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u93	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. We're done arguing and we're going to vote together in the middle line that Podemos and EH Collect signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-20.u94	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Since we've greeted the subject, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two and fifty-six in the afternoon.
