ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u0	Good morning, everyone. We're going to start the whole meeting, and we'll have a minute's silence in the honor of Gregor Ordóñez. [[Silent]] First point in theme list: "Provide the legal proposal made by the parliamentary team to change the 7/2015 Act, June 30th, family relations for parent separation or rupture. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we'll go straight to the discussion. On the side shift, besides the EH Collect Group, someone else wants to talk about it on the side shift? Side shift? All right, on the side shift. If then only the High Court is yours, your word is yours to present and defend the enterprise. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u1	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President. I'll start to insist on a thing, and it's during the instigation that when EH Collect's program in Maddalen Iror, he said that ours, if there were any, would be a feminist government. And he emphasized this in his first Intervention, and his first words were in this sense before this Chamber. He said more, that there will be no social cohesion, no justice, no democracy, if we cannot attain a new government, which is not founded on equality. He said that, and then EH Collect hasn't forgotten what he said. This consideration has been the compass of our parliamentary activity, and has been from that moment forward to make proposals, we have brought many demonstrations and propositions to carry our line of work to the advance of what we had said from her. And he marked that out. There are many examples: The proposals made about the court of violence, the proposals made about justice, the only office attorney for women who suffer violence, the control over the assailants, and even more family associations. Another step to-day, another proposition is brought to this parliament in that direction, and we bring a law to change the other law we have. And I'll explain why we plan this change. For us, with this change, to support the protection of children, children, and victims, we propose the measures to protect the victims from the moment when violence is spoiled. On 1 August 2014, the Council of Europe launched the Istanbul Protocol, and the important thing about this protocol, which is already important in itself, is that, at last, male-based violence was recognized as a violation of human rights and ceased to become a private matter, making States responsible for acting against it and also required them not only to act but, if they did not, to respond to what they were not doing. The protocol makes it clear, very clear, that no violence against women is accepted and that, consequently, the laws of each state must pursue, prevent and adopt measures in all orders, including with legal amendments, to protect those who suffer from male violence. And not only that, but it basically pointed out that those who suffered directly from such violence, whether they were boys or girls or minors, had to be doubly protected. A law was introduced in the Spanish state in 2004, and a new tribunals were set in motion to carry it forward. But what we've seen with it is it wasn't enough. After 14 years we realized that what is said in that law has not been enough to obtain that protection, and that the commitment to its foundation has not been fulfilled by this law alone. Article 26 of the Convention we have cited refers to measures to protect children. Article 31 deals with custody and visits, and expressly states that the parties shall take the necessary legislative and other measures to ensure that all actions in relation to matters of macho violence are taken into account at the time of stipulating custody and visitation rights relating to children. And the second paragraph states that such measures will even have to take legislative measures to ensure that the exercise of no visiting rights endangers the rights and security of children and victims. This is the starting-point for the change in this law. This is what is said in this convent, and this is what we see that it is not received in that law 7/2015. Enqueue presents the right of denying the right of custody to the accused for the machista of violence, the law proposition, which is said in this conviction of doing so. With these proposals EH intends to remark, that the want of the genus view of the Justice Administration to the children and young victims cause the most serious damage to all victims, and therefore we see the necessity of change. We have seen some very serious consequences in the past few months, and we have also seen that these consequences have produced a direct influence upon society. We have seen how a woman in Bilbao – supposedly or allegedly, because there is still no trial – has been murdered in front of her young children. We've seen how young and young children have been sexually abused. We have seen that more abuses and more actions on this issue are coming out of the discussion every short time. For us, all this is unacceptable, and what we plan is that all tools should be operational for this end. We want to have a legal instrument that allows us to protect the victims of macho violence. That is why we propose the change of Law 7/2015. We propose to change article 3 by introducing a final paragraph in which we say something similar: "...except where the parent is involved in a cause of gender-based violence in any of its legal forms and a protective measure has been adopted with respect to the victim, or where the cause is carried out either by violence against the minor or the minor over whom the measure is to be paid". We are talking about the rights and obligations of parents in relation to visiting rights. We propose to add an article 9a to that law and we propose to delete the third paragraph and amend the first paragraph of article 11 of the initial text. We propose that, in any of these cases, when there is any procedure in which any of the parents involved in sexist violence is involved, the right to visit cannot be agreed, nor can custody and custody be shared. We have the government's opinion. The Government has gone away; it is true that it makes many and exceptions to its proposition; but it has generally given an opinion in common; and what we have seen is, that there have been disputes about it in the Supreme Assembly of Gipulia, and also in the Supreme Assembly of Araba; and in both these cases it was agreed to advance, that this discussion and change of laws will be the same in the 20th discussion. This is our proposal. I don't doubt there's gonna be a chance to get ahead. I suppose we all want to get ahead of this, and I hope that when this is open, we'll have a chance to improve either me or the proposition we've made. I'm not saying the proposal I make is the best. It's the one we've been thinking about. I hope that in the parliamentary procedure, which I have no doubt that we will move forward, because I hope that all the groups in the House will support this proposal, that we can improve it, that we can change the things that seem necessary to us and that we can make this proposal we are making a reality. We are going to give way to the law, to improve the proposal, because I understand that the end deserves it, because it is our responsibility and our obligation in the fight against macho violence. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u2	Thank you, signor. Does anyone want to participate in the opposite round? Contradictions? No. No one wants to participate, so we'll go to the vote. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered in detail or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u3	So it was unanimously agreed that we should consider the legal proposition. We'll go next to the vote, and Mrs. Llanos of the Basque Groups has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. I will explain the meaning of my group's affirmative vote to the consideration of this bill, and the justification for that affirmative vote is nothing other than the intended purpose, which, as the proposer has said, is the fight against gender-based violence in all its forms and with all the instruments that we have at our disposal. Because it is true that nothing seems to be sufficient, but in Spain we have seen important legislative developments, such as the Organic Law 1/2004, on Measures for the Comprehensive Protection against Gender Violence, and during the 13 years of this Law, major amendments have been incorporated; among them, the one introduced by the Organic Law 8/2015 of 22 July, on the Amendment of the System for the Protection of Children and Adolescents, relating to articles 1 and 2, 61.2, 65 and 66, in relation to children under age and minors subject to guardianship, custody or custody of victims of gender violence. Precisely, the protection of minors, the children of women victims of gender-based violence, is one of the pillars of the unanimous State Pact adopted in September 2017, because it requires a more urgent response. According to the 2015 macro-survey of violence against women, of the total number of women who suffered or have suffered physical, sexual or fear of their partners and ex-partners, and who had children at the time of the episodes, 63 per cent, almost 64 per cent claimed that the children witnessed or heard some of the situations of violence. Of the women who responded that their sons and daughters witnessed or heard these episodes, 92.5% claimed that they were under the age of 18 when the events occurred. I agree with the view expressed by the Government that the ultimate objective pursued by the initiative, which, as I said, would be nothing other than the protection of children or minors in charge of a victim of gender-based violence, is plausible, and that is why we voted in favour of this bill. A different question is the medium or the greater or lesser efficiency of the medium chosen to achieve with this proposal the objective, that is, a different question, in our opinion, is the content of the proposed amendment, because, as the Government itself points out, as a result of the unanimous validation, dated 13 September 2018, of the Royal Decree Law 9/2018 of 3 August, a bill of urgent measures for the development of the State Pact against Gender Violence is being processed in Congress, by urgent procedure, which will not only affect the specific issues raised here today (the regime of visits and shared custody in cases of gender violence), but also other related or relevant laws. Thus, in the Official Gazette of the General Courts dated 15 November 2018 the index and the 100 amendments of the article have been published, to which have been formulated amendments by all the parliamentary groups: 33 of Citizens, 29 of Podemos, 18 of the Socialist Party, 14 of the People's Party and 5 of the Basque Nationalist Party. For the Joint Group, in which EH Bildu is present, only one amendment has been tabled, and with regard to precisely the distribution of the economic funds allocated to municipalities in the area of gender-based violence. In the view of the Government, also, the amendment to the 2004 Law on Urgent Measures for the Development of the State Pact is better with regard to the issues raised here today, and I will quote the Government's opinion: "It has not been the subject of any amendment by the parliamentary groups, it is a more ambitious regulation, it has greater technical rigour, and it may not raise constitutional problems". Because let us not forget that there already exists, for example, by the Court of First Instance and Instruction of Eibar a question of unconstitutionality raised precisely in relation to our law, and, well, in the end open the melon of modifying this law can lead us in some cases, if we do not hilariously, can lead us to unconstitutionality. That is why we want to make it clear that we agree with the objective presented; that in order to achieve this, we probably need to make amendments to our Shared Custody Act and that is why we have voted in favour of the consideration. A different question, and the proposer knows this because we have already commented on it, is the content, which we will, if necessary, outline through the appropriate amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u5	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u6	Egun where you're going. Good morning, everyone. The Family Relations Act in cases of separation or breakdown of parents, as you all know, did not have the approval of the Socialists when it was passed on June 30, 2015. Nor did it get the endorsement of other political groups in the House. It is a law that obtained three qualifications from our group: incongruent, unnecessary and ineffective. Qualifications that we clearly explained at that parliamentary session in which we discussed. This is a law that was put under a sieve in our misconception, which was that of promoting the equality of men and women. Shared custody was legislated as an instrument of equality, when the premise is precisely the opposite. It will be equality in the exercise of the shared co-responsibility of the parents since the birth of their children that will determine at the time when the relationship of their parents is broken, according to the prism to be protected, which is in the interest of the child, what will be the most appropriate provision of custody, whether it will be the shared or not, and not the other way around, which was, somewhat, what happened to that law. The Socialists consider – we said it then, we say it now and we will continue to say it – that the prism that must focus on any regulation that affects the situation of children during and after the relationship of their parents must be that of the protection and guarantee of their interests, of the interests of minors. In our view, and in the understanding of other groups also in that parliamentary debate, the ideal custody and custody is the one best suited to each type of family, to each specific case, to each individual situation, and therefore the best custody will be given by individualizing each situation. Today EH Bildu is proposing to us a modification of that law, and we believe that the prism from which it is to be made is again blurred. Because its proposal bases it, according to its explanatory statement, on an objective that says it has not been achieved, that is to address gender-based violence from a global prism, as enshrined in Law 1/2004, and so mentions it. It is based on the absence of a gender perspective in the administration of justice by the courts. We believe that the prism that has to focus this amendment of the law will always be the protection of the child's interest, and not achieve other objectives through that interest. As the proposer also knows, the parliamentary group that preceded me in the use of the floor has also said that we do not share the concrete wording made by the proposers of the articles they intend to amend. But we do share – and therefore our vote in favour – the need to reflect on and analyse the application of this law in certain cases; in particular, in cases related to gender-based violence. A path that, as stated in the proposal for a law, has already begun to be used in studies being carried out by legal operators and non-legal operators. This is the fundamental reason why the Socialist Group has voted in favour of its adoption and we believe it is appropriate for a debate to be opened in this Parliament, which is already taking place in Congress and in the Senate since 2017 at the request of the Socialist Party, in the development that is being carried out of the State Pact against Gender Violence, also with a clear objective in that parliamentary arc, in Congress and in the Senate: the protection of minors. And to that end, you know very well that the amendment of the Law on Comprehensive Protection against Gender Violence is being processed with a specific objective, which is to regulate the prohibition of communication – both in visiting regimes and in custody – with children in certain situations of gender-based violence. We believe that analysis and debate are necessary. We are aware, of course, of the Socialist Group, of the objective we have to pursue with this amendment of the law; we are also aware of the competitive limits – also mentioned from this rostrum – that this Parliament has, and we believe it is appropriate to be able to improve the protection that this law currently grants to minors. Like all of us, we wish to see a good parliamentary tour, a good improvement in the wording that has been proposed and a high point of view in what is intended to be pursued, which is to protect children.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together represent the Podemos team. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u8	Good morning, everyone. We have voted in favour of its procedure so that this Parliament can debate and move forward on another small change, which is so necessary to take a step further in protecting the rights of children and adolescents who are living in situations of what the law calls gender-based violence. Today we are talking again about violence against children and adolescents, and we want to take this opportunity for several things. First, to respond to some alarmist, unfounded and twisted messages that take advantage of people's feeling of fear to promote the cutting of regressive and xenophobic security freedoms and policies. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the data on complaints published year after year, the main security problem that this society has is not on the streets. Coconut is not an unknown young person in a situation of social exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, the steady, undisputed increase in reports of abuse in the family by sexual assault, sexual abuse and machist violence shows that the main security problem for more than half the population, for adolescent girls and boys and adult women, is in their homes, in schools or in families. And coconut is patriarchy and, above all, it is men who think that girls, boys and women are their property and are to satisfy them in everything. The increase in the number of complaints is due to the work of sensitizing the feminist movement and to a Basque society that is advancing, it is breaking taboos and fears. He is putting names and words to the forms of violence that only a few years ago were covered by a cloak of silence and impunity. Secondly, I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the citizen's response to the latest reports of sexual abuse that have been made public, some of the students from the Salesians College in Bilbao. Those who were schoolmates of the complainants are putting into practice the motto of "I do believe you." They want to show publicly that the complainants are not alone, the former compañeros put into practice the "I do believe you" through a rally call tomorrow, Friday, February 8th, at seven and a half in the Plaza de San Pedro de Deusto. From here we express our full support for the complainants and their relatives, and we really welcome the firm and supportive reaction of their schoolmates. Just as we must listen to the victims of sexual abuse, we must also listen to the children and adolescents who are experiencing situations of macho violence in their homes, who are victims of this violence and who must be cared for and protected as such. Some legal instruments have been developed in recent years. In this Parliament, moreover, without going any further, we have a few agreements to improve the care of children and adolescents who are victims of violence. We note for our part the lack of leadership on the part of the Basque Government to implement them. For example, the State Pact against Gender Violence provides a battery of interesting measures to protect minors. In this Parliament we have reached a unanimous agreement on the initiative of our group so that the Basque Government will promote the implementation of those measures of the pact that can improve the services and services that we have in Euskadi; we have not yet received any new developments in this regard. Another example: in one appearance, Counsellor Beltrán de Heredia, and also through a written response, the Department of Safety and Security acknowledged that it does not have a record of girls and boys who are victims of gender-based violence passing through the police station in Euskadi. It is not known how many they are or who they are; in this way, Basque public administrations are not responding to their needs and are totally exposed to more violence. In this House, also at the initiative of our group, we have reached an agreement to review that information system on sexist violence and to register and respond to all victims in the light of the updating of the regulations of recent years. We are still without news from the Basque Government. The inaction of this one has no name, the truth. And if they are not considered from the beginning as victims, then, in court proceedings, there is a risk that shared custody and visits will be established with a gentleman who is a threat to the psychological and emotional integrity of the whole family. All the issues I have mentioned have a lot to do with each other, because everything is related and forms part of the same problem: macho violence against children and adolescents; violence, by the way, which has been invisible, naturalized and unrecognized for centuries. We vote yes because we believe that it is necessary to discuss, analyse and find new and better solutions to protect girls, boys and adolescents from male-based violence in the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to try to explain the critical vote of the eubertist group, together with the criteria that you gave me, too. Our team and Eukonjok's attitude is intelligent and unrecognizable with gender violence. We are ready to do what is in our hands, and by means of our jurisdiction, to end with the force of the genus, knowing that it is not easy to work, that we cannot be repaired from one day to another, and that there is need to be an explanation of the whole society. Genro-power is the crudest source of the difference between women and men. They often suffer ill treatment from their children, and are almost always witness of violent conduct, and consequently of the just victims. But we don't think we're going to end up with the genetic violence of the parental separation or the Family Relational Laws in case of cases. changing. We don't think that's the way. It seems to us, in this sense, that the initiative is intended to kill flies by cannons. The explanatory statement establishes the absence of a gender perspective in the Administration of Justice, with fateful consequences for boys and girls. We can share the importance of training in this sense, but I insist, is it achieved by amending the so-called law of shared custody? Well, in our opinion, the answer is a no-fly. It is also mentioned that the Criminal Code leaves to the judge the assessment of the danger to situations of male violence when determining the regime of visits, criticizing that it is not decisive in many judicial pronouncements and that it should be. Eta hau 7/2015 Law aldatuz konponduko da? The law was passed in mid-2015, initiated through a popular legislative initiative. We had the opportunity to hear many and diverse views on whether or not to establish shared custody as a preferred norm. The law is ambitious, seeks the well-being of the offspring of broken couples, seeking that they can relate on equal terms with their parents, provided that it is not harmful to minors, and establishing a series of conditions that the judges must take into account when drafting their rulings. These legislators considered the proficiency of the genus. The general rule cannot be applied when the sentence is fixed by the force of the genus, neither watch, nor visit, nor communication. And we went beyond it, because we were concerned with the force of the genus, and we opened another way to the judges: if there are some foundation symptoms, don't set the shared watch. It is clear the will of the legislature not to grant shared custody in cases of gender-based violence, even the expression "founded indications" is included in the law itself. It is therefore clear that the law already contains sufficient mechanisms not to grant shared custody as a preference when gender-based violence occurs, and we do not see the need for a change of the same one and only in the sections related to this serious problem. The law has its tools and regulations, which make the judges understand the direction, which they ought to be careful in the case of laying down their sentences, which must always seek for the end which is best for the children. On the other hand, the parliament has given you orders to regulate the profundity of the genus, and it is in this that the government is about to regulate the equality of laws which have been established since 2005, and in which it is intended to regulate the exact regulating of the law of the law of equality, in which it is intended to regulate the exact regulation of the strength of the genus. Finally, the Tehran has been mentioned. In the state class there is a state record to work against the force of the genus, and to accept a law. This may affect the law which is now intended to change, and therefore we see no sense of changing the law now in order to alter the three articles connected with the force of the genus. For all this reason we do not see the necessity of changing the Law 7/2015 on relation to the Fathers, in the case of the Acquisitions of the Family, to change the Articles which relate to the force of the genus; but when we open the melons, we shall endeavour to improve the law which was introduced to them in the whole; That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Second point on the subject list: "The law-propositation of the People of Law. Public social protection system and quality support. Against poverty and social neglect." The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. According to the performance of 149 and 86.2 articles of rule, the discussion will be started with the representation of the legislative legislation, in order to present and defend its action. Then one turn and another, even 30 minutes, and after that there'll be two shifts to answer, 15 minutes. After the vote, a shift will be opened for the vote description. So, first of all, Mrs. Pérez has her word. Send him in. (Mrs Pérez comes in. )
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u12	Good morning, congressmen. Poverty and social neglect are reality. The level of social and poverty in the South Basque Country will cause serious anxiety. Due to the political policy, the economic, economic crisis, the growth, the reduction, and so forth, of the neoliberal climates, the larger sector of population is daily increasing, without sufficient economic resources, to be a minimum degree of well-being. Economy freedom, housing, energy, child development, leisure, culture, poor workers, who can't afford medicines, young people who can't give up and develop their own life project, pensioners... For all that reason, it is necessary that the public system of social protection should be of importance. But what kind of system? We know that the Social Rights letter of the Basque Country, which is today, is involuntary. On this point, too, as you think it is necessary to change the system, we all seem to be on our side, but how? There's something in it, here's the key. From the law of 2008 to the present day necessity has increased. However, the system has suffered a yearly reduction, leaving a lot of people out of the system. Number of collectors start from 2008 to 2016%, 45% of the collectors are women, 20% poor workers and 25% pensioned. We think it's a clean photo. The amount of income in the past few years has been reduced to great reductions of income, and the Euskal Government has made a fair wager in 2019 to 208% of the law of 2008, which has been made to harden and sharpen the conditions to supply it. If we look at the numbers, in 2018, and only one person has got 644 euros to guarantee incomes. On Tuesday, with the promotion introduced by the government, it would be 666 euros, but if there were no reductions up to the present, and the number of laws of 2008 were respected, the number would be 924 euros. In the case of pensions, 732, 665 and 1.050, respectively. Is this really an income to guarantee incomes is a priority for the parties who've chosen this decision, or is it a way to offer minimum coverage and destruct the system? In examining the draft of reform presented by EAJ and PSE, our astonishment increased much: Again, for the eternal measure, for the eternal, and for the eternal. All the agents who took part in the commission which was formed to discuss the draft made a very similar reading, and we proposed new measures and a more suitable measure. Most of the time, there was a break in the mouth. It seemed to us that no maximists had ever set their measures upon the table. Thus we introduced in February the legislative of the people, alternatives, and debate of the laws of the Basque Rights, because we are not alone in the Critique. Two months later, in April, the two named parties, and not the government, would like to know the real cause of this action, introduced the legal proposition of the revenue to support the revenues. All that had been said at the Commission, which had been discussed, had been given to the knowledge of the legal proposition, which was still more severe in its content. We think it was a different language to create and to preserve the appearance of a commission, to which we are apt to participate. We have overcome several obstacles in the tramitation of the popular legislator, and we believe that what has happened has not been casual. There are many doubts about what happened on the way: why two disputes had not been united (the legislator of the people and the bill of law), why, since it had been accepted by the legislator of the people, the period between the settlement of signatures had been passed without ground; why the bill of law and not the bill of law had been transferred to the commons, and the necessity of removing them from the order of the subject on the same day... When the legal proposal was introduced, many of them, I'm afraid, came to light. What is clear is that ours is not a political game, not a negotiation of packages, nor even a spokesman. We're social agents. We represent society and work in a great sense and with the needs of society every day. And we have obtained the protection of society: 51,000 signatures. 51,000 signatures have protected the legislative of the people, the intention of increasing the rent's expenditure in order to support incomes, and they have maintained that it was a reference to LAGS and KPI to go down to 18 years to get ready and be registered in the year. If there were more than one unit of co-existence in a dwelling-place, and if they had done their duty, they were all protected by the right of preparation; they protected the right of securing the rights of the housing, and not replacing it by a financial force. And the sects that represent this legislature want to know their opinion about these proclamations, and it would be your responsibility to answer them clearly. The ball's on your roof today. The Social Rights of the Basque Country had the rightful tools available, the legislator of the people, who has used the intention to interact with political representatives, but as they are accustomed to become, the legislature has lately neglected such a plan. December, when I was in love with you, he gave an opposite opinion to the legislative of the people: on the one hand we did not regard the social condition; on the other, there was a law proposition about the subject; and besides, there is another change of law (reform) in the matter of the house, beginning from the last. The legislators of the people plan the reform of the two laws. In so far as it is a technical and legal point of view, the legislator of the people had at first been admitted from the table. There's no discussion on that point. If we look at other reasons, we live in different realities or worlds, and we think it will be. A social situation, the occasion, is a social reality, not just expense and budget. This argument is very slight, even when there is no further discussion. And yes, there is a law proposition, but we first introduced the legislative of the people. There has been no will to unite the dispute between them, and knowing which time has controlled them in their transition, we have not acted in the condition of equality. Let's be humble, members of the legislature. Let's be honest. Let us lose fear of telling the truth. Society wants to know the truth, not only in this respect, but in all others. Let's talk about what Red Beetle likes: With social cohesion, but with real cohesion, let's talk about participation. The division is not only an opportunity of introducing the legislators of the people to us at the present day, but of talking of the laws, not of the legislative, but of the content and the nature of the subject. Today your vote for yes or no will be a vote for 51,000 signatures, or an opposing vote for a decent life. We're talking about opening up a discussion. Later, later. Give us a chance to argue. Democracy, democratic exercise. That's today. Deliberation to the legislator of the people, to give the green light, to be cut, is not what the society of the euscal will claim to you at the present day. It would be an excellent example of democracy to vote for you today. As we shall have no opportunity of ending, and of replication, a last quote: the letter has brought into the legislature the real necessity of a really different social protection from a large part of society, the real necessity of social cohesion, and the need of democratic debate. We've been working out. We, the social motives, have been exercising. The theme was very difficult, we had a hard job before, but it was pretty, though we know it, but we can clearly recognize it as a joke, of course, because we all know it, for good and for worse what our decision will be to-day. But we know also that we will continue to accuse the anti-democratic conduct of such a man, and that we will continue to fight against narrower attitudes. And today, luckily, the street is with us. It's on our side. This transformation will not die here today, because we owe it to our people. We'd like to thank the 510,000 people who have protected the legislative of the people from the Basque Social Rights Card. Thank you very much. Thank you for proclaiming a better society. Today you will increase the distance and distance between the legislature and the people, and it is already very large. It is up to you to allow democracy to be discussed or to practice it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Landalh. Next, we'll open a side shift. Is he planning to be part of the shift? Wanna be on the side shift? Okay. Then someone else? No. Together we begin this round with Mrs. Guanche, representing the Podemos team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u14	, Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. First of all, thank you all for the effort and your work. Thank you for your friends above 50,000, who have protected this initiative, thank you for showing us that there are very generous people in this country. Thank you for placing improvements in the center of the political agenda for people. Today in this plenary we resume parliamentary activity, and from Elkarrekin We can do it with strength and illusion; and we do it happy because the second point today is a popular legislative initiative. With every popular initiative, a reception should be made in this Parliament with great care, even with care, wherever it comes from, whenever it respects human rights. Because we all know very well the work and effort involved in generating a legislative initiative, when it is also the product of the participation of thousands of people. For us, the popular initiative is the best instrument of semi-direct democracy we have, and therefore no more or less, a jewel. A mechanism that we should promote and receive with open arms, because it makes this institution more transparent and more accessible to people, but, above all, because it brings the proposals of the citizenry. Also because it makes the decisions to build a country, of this country, more involved, because it opens the debate to more actors and it is not only under the influence of those who move around the circles of power. Popular initiatives such as the one we are discussing today certainly contribute to improving the quality of democracy. That is why it would be worrying if the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party would once again give a door to that citizen participation, to the debate promoted by a part of the citizenry. It would be a matter of concern if Parliament were to close its doors to its concerns and solutions. It would be worrisome if they closed the doors of a democratic institution to the voice of the street, just four months before those same parties went out to these same streets to ask these same people for the vote that would allow them to continue in the institutions. Because, if that were the case, it would already be two doors to democracy in less than six months. Is it scary for them to argue with people? Do you want to reserve the right to political participation in the institutions exclusively for you, self-proclaimed Government of dialogue? We can discuss whether the initiative is better or worse, but this debate takes into account the ILP. It is not to the content that they are saying no, they are saying no to the participation of 51,000 people who want us to talk about this in this house; because, even if they want to disguise it, the decision we make today is political, as policies would be the means to implement this initiative. We have been in this Parliament for months, I would even say years, debating the necessary reforms of the GIR and Lanbide and we do not agree, and today, after a long journey, different agents have come together in a space and give us a window to discuss, an opportunity to agree and agree. Let us not close that window to those who come to this Parliament to provide solutions for progress. Let us not close the door to those who try to help us have better laws from their legitimate position as agents and social movements fighting poverty and precariousness. We have in this Parliament another proposal for reform of the GIR, right, blocked. Blocked because no one likes it, you only like it because you have elaborated it in a meeting with yourself, well, with the support of PricewaterhouseCoopers, a neoliberal private consultant with outstanding experience in politics that only benefit elites. Various trade unions and social actors – including the third sector – have expressed their discrepancy and rejection of the proposal for a law, and are now participating in the social charter. We say yes, we say yes to discuss solutions that citizens propose, we say yes to support people's participation and involvement, we say yes to a necessary debate and that it is blocked by its systematic refusal. We say yes to opening this debate in the appropriate space, which is the Parliament of all. It is well known that in this group we have been proclaiming our desire to broaden the basic right of everyone to enjoy a dignified life, to strengthen that right and to end the problems that people have to exercise here today in Euskadi. Ending this violation is what we believe should be at the heart of this reform, not other interests, political or electoral. The ILP presented today is an example of how this reform could be approached, an example of how to broaden and strengthen that right, an example of how people living in Euskadi can really count on a minimum of income. A right that gives us security, that guarantees us sufficient coverage to cover our basic needs when they are badly given, so that we can move forward when we go through a bad patch. A network that gives us all the support, subjection and care of the institutions that we need for no one to fall into poverty or exclusion for lack of help. This proposal also seeks for the first time in Euskadi that the tools to fight poverty will get people out of poverty. This initiative eliminates the infamous cuts of 2012. With this proposal, more than 50,000 Basques and Basques are asking us to improve the living conditions of thousands of people, asking us to do so in the year that the collection has risen in this country. A year in which the estates have raised more than 500 million more than expected. It is time to use a small part of that money to end the social deficit that we have been carrying since the 2008 crisis. Because it is a question of social justice, because, ladies and gentlemen of this House, the GIR is a tool for exercising a just and legitimate right, the right of anyone to have a network that holds him or her when they are wrong. The guarantee of income is something that we must all feel proud of, a treasure to protect, a right with capitals that places us as a country of solidarity, decent and that cares for all its people equally. Because the RGI today is more than 50,000 people who need the support of public services to get ahead, are more than 30,000 women, are more than 11,000 precarious workers, are more than 8,000 families with one head, usually women with girls and boys in charge. There are more than 14,000 pensioners, more than 4,000 widows, almost 4,000 under 25 and almost 10,000 over 65. The RGI is more than 1,700 people in Oarsoaldea, more than 1,100 in Enkarterri, more than 800 in Aiaraldea and no less than 8,333 in Ezkerraldea. The punished regions also have their reflection in the RGI, because it is clear and evident that the people who exercise this right are a reflection of the Basque society to which you are turning your back. It's thousands of faces, stories, people who have a hard time. They're people like you and me, people we can't afford to take steps back, steps back like those that took place in 2012, steps back like those that took place in 2017. With this ILP 51,000 people ask us to recover our sanity and stop playing with people's future, ask us to recover what must lead us all to do politics, which is to take care of people; ask us to recover the basis of consensus that created Law 18/2008 and with which this initiative is deeply respectful. We are asked to respect and follow the stride of the struggle of thousands of people who became involved in the ILP that gave rise to this right, 82,000 people who signed and committed to this right in 1996 with coherence and generosity. That's what brought about what we have today: generosity, consensus and progress agreements. We are asked that any of us, any of the more than two million people we live in Euskadi and that we can see each other any day in the situation of having to charge the GIR, we can de facto do so. They ask us to improve law, dignity and resources. Let us be fair, let us be fair, let us look at the capacity we have and let us not focus sustainability only on social protection. Let us invest and allow this law to pass by seeking consensus on a shared law that already exists. In Elkarrekin We want more, because in Euskadi we can more, if the distribution, of course, is more fair to all and not concentrated in the hands of the usual. It is no secret that the great tax benefits, you want to systematically dedicate them to other things, and it is also no secret that your socio-economic model is based on reproducing inequalities or not ending injustices. Nor is it secret that in these times the fight against poverty is not always profitable in electoral terms, but from that honesty we consider that today it is up to us to be brave and take a step forward to strengthen the law. Today we have, we have a clear opportunity; let us use it to unlock this issue and let us do it from the hand of the citizenry. Sabin Zubiri said when the inclusive school ILP was introduced in this legislature that you have to have an eye to look around with an ILP, because it has its risk. We sincerely hope that this risk will not be such, that it will be rectified and that the end of that day will not be repeated again today. That popular legislative initiatives are simple processes, that are accessible and that make participation worth the effort, not the penalty. Let no one be penalized in economic terms because we do not pass political on to this, let no one see their proposal rejected before discussing it. Because we can't and, of course, in Elkarrekin We don't want to pretend to rule for people without people. This is why we're betting on Podemos's people together, because that's just and the least. Instead of doubting the rights, we are strengthened. We are engaged to work for a more just Basque. From that commitment we want to work to make Euskadi a fairer place for its people, a place where no one is afraid to stumble, because he knows that solidarity and the help of all will be there. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. 51,000 signatures, one of 510,000 citizens and a group of citizens, more than a hundred people's movements and unions united in action against poverty and neglect, a worthy people. Good morning and welcome, and thanks to a million, you've done a great job. Thank you for your ability to shake society, thanks to your ability to interact with you for your generosity, for your ability to get to the agreements, for your generosity, for your ability to get along with you; thank you for the opportunity of building a worthy community who keeps and protects his members, and protects them from building a public system of public and quality; thank you very much for taking advantage of the construction of a people who don't give up. Today, 51,000 signatures are discussing the future of their course, as you have explained. This method of association, therefore, which you have made together, this effort, the future of this direct exercise of democracy is now discussed. Because we are speaking of the study of democracy, of the equality of choice, of not leaving any one behind, of keeping and preserving our fellow citizens, of rights and social justice, of fulfilling their rights, of cohesion, inculsion, inclusion, of public policy, of building their future conditions, of establishing alternatives on the table for the future, because we are speaking of mutuality, of mutual respect, of democracy, because we are discussing a worthy people, and for that reason we are discussing all the means of making a collective work; In 1989, the positive influence which the income has had in the diminution of the rate of poverty and of social differences, and as poverty and social retirement, is undoubtedly due to the daily experience of people who have been profitable to it. The author of the thesis which Sonia Carrasco, poverty, and society have combined, said that he had worked with women in such circumstances as these, declaring that the income of money was a calmer, and that this was very important. But though this be so, the limits of the system, the efficiency of the system, its destitutions, are every day more distinct. And the data is raw. When there are signs of improvement in economics, poor poverty is breaking in in our country. 59.000 people are people who are the highest cipher since they are calculated, and are more than those who are protected from the system. The experts say we've climbed a scale in the state of poverty and neglect for the past few years. The active poverty is remarkable in ours and in ours, because there is no guarantee of employment now, because even the preparation is installed among us, and more and more are the workers who have to use the rents for extra uses, 20% of the benefits. More and more striking are the data of pensioners, already 25% of the benefiters, and most of them are women. Moreover, the danger of poverty and poverty in the last years has been transferred to families, where children are kept, especially to families composed of one mothers. The rent of money is not effective in these cases, which has a direct influence on the children and teenagers who live in those families. Only three of the ten families who hire incomes to ensure the maintenance of incomes are released from poverty, and 20% of our minors live in a state of poverty. And certainly poverty has a woman's face in our country. This is a raw situation. There's the data of the Prefect who's completely installed in ours. This is the socionomical reality of Euscal, that is to say, that which is intended to appear to us as a stage after a crisis, but which may not be seen, but which is here and is ours. Before this state of things our system of protection has been exposed in general, and especially that our system of conditional economic preparations is not sufficient to prevent the citizens from living with dignity and neglecting the circumstances of retirement. I dare say it is already undeniable and irresistible that reflection, a deep and shared reflection, is to be carried forward. Without fear, we must come to this work of courage, seriousness, sincerity, and responsibility. It is necessary to rethink and renew our model against poverty and social neglect. And, further, I would say that there is a great agreement about the necessity of this dispute; there may be different reasons between it, but it seems to be obvious from different areas, that this necessity is derived from different spaces, and that it has been driven from one and the other to give up space and space to give them. It could be said that we are in a situation with elements very similar in substance to those that in the 80s led to articulate what then ended up being the income guarantee income, but with the journey and with an experience, that of all these years, that determine – and much – the debate and the joint reflection that are so necessary at this time. In this context, it is true that we hear voices talking about not taking steps back and asking for progress. However, once a very inspiring person – and he told it in an article – explained to me and taught me the importance of stopping and repairing to achieve the goals with which we started the march. There are times when, even having a very clear purpose, the path is tangled, we find ourselves with unexpected, inertias lead us, but not always where we want to get. We make decisions that move us away from the goal; there are times when we lose course, we forget the commitments made, we lose ourselves and we have to unwind what we have gone to get back on the road. That is why, at certain times, it is necessary to stop, visualize the objective and return to the right path, and I think it is a very timely reflection if we look at the fate of social benefits and the protection system, especially since 2008, because it is important to stop and repair for all those cuts and the tightening of the conditions that have been given in recent years, and that they have been achieved by those who at the moment recognize and underline the goodness of the income guarantee system. And it is up to stop and repair because the income guarantee income system leads to becoming a system without income guarantee, to lose all its guarantees. It plays to stop and repair because it is undeniable, moreover, that due to the inefficiency of the management of the system is also in question. It is important to stop and repair because these management procedures do not respond to the reality of people living in situations of real poverty. And it is up to stop and repair, above all, relationships, because in recent years the income guarantee system has advanced, advanced, but always turning its back on social movements and organizations. And the consensus on income-guarantee income, those consensuss that led to the start of the system, are broken by a strategy that has served to put income-guarantee income on the trigger and put under suspicion the people who receive it, and to discredit and delegitimize the system. A strategy that has favored the construction of a collective imagination in relation to the RGI and the people who perceive it that it is far from being real and that now it is up to rebuild. It plays to stop and repair because there are occasions when moral commitments seem to have been forgotten, those commitments with regard to a model of social articulation with which this adventure of social protection began. And I believe that this ILP offers that opportunity to stop and repair, that it offers that opportunity to stop, repair, even reorient, because, if anything offers, it is an address. A direction, this ILP, offers the opportunity to define a social north American community, and I dare say that it's a good idea that the majority of this legislature's plan is to promote that vast deal of income around rental spectrum with the agreement that had been made to promote it. To-day he might have sought a handsome companion, and to-day would have found 51,000 traveling companions, with their route to tramite, 51,000 allies. The treaty of the great spectrum requires discussion, the dispute between the parties, demands alliance, the confession of what the other has to say, demands respect, which this government has not offered to the ILP. There are no members of the government here today, but especially the head physician of the Fields is not here, and the President is not here to hear what 510,000 people have to say to the people who are behind this legislative of the people. He begs, too, suppleness, demands generosity, and it's hard to feel them all when you're at it, at least, when you're concerned with this ILP. We are, as I said, in a scenario very similar to that of the beginnings of our protection system, with positions – it is true – found and passionate, and with political positions that seem irreconcilable. And now, as it then touches debate, it touches negotiation, it touches agreement. And it touches struggle, it touches joint reflection, it touches accumulation of forces with social actors to delay and agree a shared response to situations of poverty and exclusion at the height of a dignified, decent and supportive state. But this is not attained, as you will do, to dispute, to reflection, and to close the doors to one another. It is not proper, it is not useful, it produces despair, and it has but little of democratic character. Besides, governments are very weak arguments for shutting the doors to the legislative of the people. For one thing, he says that a dispute is already in this sense in the legislature, and is so, but I dare say, all disputes are incorrigible. The government's errand is not legal reform, it's a big spectrum deal that's been asked for. And on the way to obtain this commission, we must make use of every opportunity. What is the reason why the legislator of the legislative and the people should not dispute? What is it? Open doors, use options, work together, and bargain with complicity, especially if you wish to have wide spectrums. It is difficult to reach agreements at door and, above all, without even listening to what people have to say. It is clear that the Government opts for other formulas; the Government and the groups that support it do not seem to be listening, they do not seem to be in the same tune. Moreover, they act with some contempt for initiatives such as the popular legislative initiative. But the truth is that the government is also not to throw rockets at this issue, it is not to despise the opportunities for agreement that provides an opportunity like the ILP. It is true that the Government, the groups that support it, brought a proposal for reform of the Income Guarantee Income Act, a proposal without guarantee, at least, without the guarantees it would have had if it had been brought by the Government. A proposal that seemed to want to vent as soon as possible, above all, if we take into account what is the formula chosen for its parliamentary processing, a formula that disheartenes – let us say – or that avoids such reports that would offer guarantees to any law and that, moreover, manipulates in many ways the opposition or, at least, the debate with that opposition. A proposal that rejects the proposals of the entities, of the social partners, and that is not addressed with the groups, and that conditions and limits the possibilities of discussion and discussion. A proposal that remains open, indeed, but not on the merit of this Government, not for the work that this Government has done to keep it open, but for the responsibility of the groups, that in view of the importance and scope of this law, leaving aside partisan and electoral elements, we advocate for dialogue and understanding, because we understood that we had a moral commitment and that we have a moral commitment to all people who are experiencing vital situations and experiences of poverty and exclusion. A generous and responsible attitude that you are not going to have today with those 51,000 people who sign and who are behind this popular legislative initiative. It is also used that our social reality does not conform to the socionomical reality, so as not to refuse the ILP. Do you define the social reality of this people? By what parameters do you commit this assertion? You operate as if it were the principle of reality, as if it were the government's presence to give you an absolute ownership of reality. You guys make a political choice. You make concrete social opportunities in your practice, but these are not the only alternatives. It is not that what is proposed in this ILP does not agree with the socionomical reality; According to this concrete choice, you, for example, have decided to take away a large portion of the 590 million that is this year. You chose your way to defend zero, but that's your choice, that's your choice. There are other alternatives. Or do you think that the law of expense, which determines our action, adapts itself to our social reality? Open your eyes, down to the ground, for there is another reality of a people like you. I don't know how the government understands all this, I don't know how to understand and share the necessity of observation. I'd say that poverty is planning a problem with management, which is why you work the way you work. The fact is that this is not a purely administrative problem, that our social model is the centre of this discussion, and the Basque People are convinced that their choice is favorable to a popular institution which protects and protects its members. I do not know whether the government is aware of the gravity of the matter, and whether it be observed, or whether it be the same to turn its back on its agents. For if this will be really a tacit consent, we must assent to the treatment of this law, because the agreement is made among all, because it is not a compact to the person who says it, without any other consideration of the other. And this is just what you do. In the name of the dialogue, conversation, negotiation, negotiation, negotiation, and agreement to obey what you say. The progress which has been given in this country in the sphere of social policy and social protection has always been made together. When social and political agents have been working together, we have gone on as a society. The greatest modifications of our society have been given by the impulse of these agents, and they are strongly insisted upon to postpone such enterprises. Today, I'm going to listen to the right order of 51,000 people. We have met with a wall, and we will try to see what lies behind that wall, but what we attack for the moment is that it is a sort of government that is about to be heard behind it. In any case, we will direct all resources and all means, and we will make use of them and take advantage of the advance and the pursuit of the protection system. And you know what the song says, you push it hard, and we'll push it from here, and maybe we won't throw anything away, but we'll probably build a solid, quality backup system. I want everyone to tell you today that you're refusing this ILP that you're building only holes from top to bottom.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Does anyone want to participate in the opposite round? No? Well, we're going to the vote. [[Berber]] Now that the dispute is over, we vote whether the legislation of the legislature be considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u18	So, it doesn't take any notice of the popular proposal. Next, we'll go to the vote, and we'll begin with Mrs Garrido, the representative of the Basque Potion Group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u19	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Partners. I also wish to greet all who are above, and to thank those who are present, and to give thanks for the introduction which has been made here to my fellow-men, and also to my fellow-men. It's true that Mr. Masters, you know, before the year 2018 was over, he was engaged to bring back the rental bill. We must say that this engagement has not been fulfilled, and the government passed it over to the teams of responsibility. Thus the teams of the Jeltarian Party and the Socialist Party introduced a proposal to ensure the change of incomes. So that, having a proposition on the table, it is not reasonable, in our opinion, to have another proposition on the table at the same time. The Basque Government is committed in its legislative calendar to forward to the House a bill amending the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act in the second quarter of 2018. We have to say that the government, the Basque government, formed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, has not fulfilled this commitment, and after and after 2018, the government, as a government, has not brought such an initiative, that is, a bill for its debate and its handling in this House. The Government, therefore, has not assumed responsibility, and in our view they have transferred responsibility, and it was the groups that support the Government (the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party) that submitted a legislative amendment, in the form of a bill, to the Law on Guarantee of Income and Social Inclusion. For us, this is a crucial issue. We also have to remember that the last parliamentary term we understood that the debate had to have opened the last parliamentary term, and it was not possible to open the debate because the Government at that time, and other groups represented in this House, understood that the debate at that time did not have to open. We understand that there is already an initiative on the table, we understand that there is a proposal for a law, although I do have to say that to us, and above all on a subject that in this Government this legislature has been described as important, relevant and that it was also a commitment made in the legislative calendar itself, we understand that it would have been yours to bring a bill with all the guarantees, accompanied by all the mandatory reports, and, above all, taking into account that the proposal submitted by the groups supporting the Government and that, moreover, it was announced in this same forum on the day that this Member of Parliament made an inquiry on this issue to the Government, we have to say that this initiative is based, although it has been submitted by the groups, on the diagnostic document of the situation and proposals for amendments that the Council in committee presented in 2017. Therefore, the question, I think it is very obvious, I think that after two years of government on the table, from the People's Group we do not understand that this government is not diligent, it has not assumed the responsibility to bring a bill on such a relevant issue. But obviously, when the process of this initiative begins, if it is taken into consideration, we will be able to talk about this long and long-standing issue, and, of course, the intention of the People's Group is to articulate all those measures and put on the table all those proposals that we believe need to try to set up a fair, effective and sustainable system; and, of course, to correct the multiple dysfunctions that the system currently presents, the lack of controls as to the identity of the recipients, the proof of the requirement of effective residence, the fate of the benefits and whether they are actually intended to fulfil the purposes for which they have been granted. Management issues, clamorous management issues. And I conclude, Madam President, but we believe that the system fails to put the system at the service of employability. A system based on the dual right: the right to receive financial benefits, those provided by law, but also the right to work activation, the right to such training, to have Lanbide design customized itineraries so that employment is an alternative and a way out for all these people. We believe that, therefore, the diagnosis is made and what is missing is to put solutions on top of the table. The People's Party has them, and in the coming months, of course, it will put them on the table so that all groups also know what they are and we can establish a sincere debate, a constructive debate on this issue, but, yes, by substantially modifying the current regulation, which, as I say, is clearly failing in many of its aspects.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u20	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u21	Thank you, President. For our part, I would also like to thank the people who have put this popular legislative initiative before this House today. The Socialist Group has rejected the processing of this popular legislative initiative in line with the two proposals that we would have and which are signing, since it would affect the Housing Act, Law 3/2015 of 18 June, which is in full regulatory development, and the reform of our social protection system, which currently has a proposal for a law for income guarantee and inclusion, presented by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups, whose aim is to improve the current law and correct the dysfunctions detected within the 10 years of its implementation, and which is waiting for the opposition groups that asked us to paralyze it in the June 2018 plenary to be prepared to put it in place. It addresses a reformulation of the Basque system of income guarantee as a whole, of the current Income Guarantee Act, Law 18/2008, in a coherent and comprehensive manner. And in both, the contributions of all social groups have been of substantial importance, because the Socialists believe in citizen participation when it comes to guiding our rules. We do not despise a single reflection. We can share them, we can approach them, but we don't throw away any of the contributions. Nor are those which have been sought with this initiative and which, in our view, are amendments which can be tabled or which even at the time have been raised and have not been agreed upon. But we do not despise this participation. In this sense, I would like to recall that the Housing Act that we were planning to reform today was a project originally born two legislatures ago, with the government of the lehendakari Patxi López, and arose from an unprecedented participatory process in Euskadi, led by then and now councillor Iñaki Arriola under the title "In housing all opinions count". So unprecedented that it deserved a United Nations award in 2012, and so innovative was that with the contributions of 80 social organizations and entities of all kinds the Social Housing Pact 2010-2025 was agreed. I mean, it's a pact that those who signed it wanted it to last in time, a time we're still in, with a long-distance look. And with that same look and on the basis of that pact the law was drawn up that had to wait for another legislature to obtain the approval of this Parliament. It wasn't easy, but it got it. It was achieved thanks to an enormous effort to identify the points of encounter between those who shared the ambition to develop, from our competences, the constitutional provision of the right to housing. We got it for the least, but it was done. Today this law is not questioned by anyone in Euskadi, after overcoming all the obstacles that have been put to it, even after its adoption, and today that law remains unmatched anywhere else in Spain. Today it is up to us, without prejudice to any improvement and correction that can be made, to develop that which was so hard to achieve and not to change that where there is no consensus. As far as income guarantee income is concerned, there is no doubt that the participatory impulse to have this protection system, which is not compared anywhere else in Spain, governs who governs, and even where those who support this initiative today govern. The momentum was at the origin of the current law and participation, which has also been in the elaboration of the proposal that the Socialist and Nationalist groups keep alive and that studied a modification of the income guarantee system as a whole and in a global way. At its origin there is a report that has had experts outside the policy and that has also been taken into account in its preparation. But, in addition, all that is because there has been a proposal since April 2018, because all the groups in this House, without exception, not only know it, but they have conversations with those who have presented it. Let us hope that this debate will finally open and that we can discuss, find and agree. Show your willingness to remember them, because that is what the people who are affected by these laws need. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u22	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u23	Thank you again, Mrs. President. In the name of our party we welcome the pushers of the initiative, the representatives of the Social Rights against the Pool and the Society. I'm here to explain the negative vote for the team. The two political parties, the Jestal Party of the Euko, the Socialist Party, and the Sociists of the Socialist Party, introduced the legal proposition of changing the 18/2008 bill to reorganize the US Act, so that in the Parliament there is an initiative alive, it would be enough for us to conclude this discussion. The several teams clearly understand that since the law was passed 10 years, there are the dysfunctions we're seeing in practice and the improvements we have to enter. We proposed to maintain and improve the potificant system of society, which is not yet discussed, in order to find out the agreement of different groups, which required a prolongation of the dispute, and the authors of the initiative to accept it. Moreover, our proposal for a law is much more ambitious than the very concrete changes envisaged in the popular legislative initiative. That, the proposal for a law, revises the law in its entirety, giving the proposal for a reform of coherence and of full sense with respect to the whole. In our view, the ILP focuses on three or four very specific articles of the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion – age, time of registration, amount, living units – and three other articles of the Housing Law, and in our understanding all this without carrying out a thorough analysis of the law as a whole. Nor do we know that they have carried out a serious examination of the economic valuation of their proposals, or at least have not been sent to us, as required by the proposed law presented by the groups we support to the Government. Nor do we understand the claim to jointly amend both laws of such importance without reports, which are required to the contrary for the proposed law. We have had the opportunity to hear in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy the voice of many and different entities so that they can express their views on the current law and aspects to be improved. We have direct knowledge of their claims, having been some of them, if not all, collected in the ILP. The fact that this popular legislative initiative has not been taken into account does not mean that the claims contained in it remain in limbo, since the parties that share these approaches will be able to make them their own and present them as amendments to the proposed law presented in June and pending discussion. We must consider the law, as we explained the legislature of the people, as a whole. The law allows the people to make a legal proposition if they get a certain number of signatures. They are allowed a right to defend themselves in the legislature by the last change of laws. And the Parliament has a right to consider or refuse. And this is the point at which the legislature has voted, in the full majority, democraticly, negatively, according to the rules of democracy. It is true that the enterprise has been advanced with more protection than 50,000 signatures, and it is true that those parties, which we have given our negative vote today, are protected by more persons, even by the votes which we have won in the election. The eubertarians are ready to socialize, and to change the law which regulates the revenues, and to improve the revenues, ready to do whatever is necessary for a wide consent, to continue the progress. We are waiting to discuss, to discuss, to speak, to speak without fear, seriously, to use your doors open for you. And for this we have documents, law-produces, and there is nothing that can be used by the people's legislators, which are really ready to improve the system and the law, but only by criticism can alter and remain in form, and nothing can be obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Third point in theme list: "To discuss first the law of Parliamenting the EH, which the Spanish Government has put before the humanitarian emergency, about the prohibition that Father Mari and Oppen Arms have been put to sea. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Ms. Aguirre, representing the EH team. It's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u25	Buenos días, señora presidenta, parlamentarians, parlamentarians, and the operators who have come here to-day. It's also about poverty, but, well, see you later. Perhaps it's bad taste to start such a delicate, serious, serious subject with a joke, but our proposal today is from something that seems to be a joke, and it's also a pathetic joke not to allow the Papa Mari to go to the Mediterranean. The Ministry of Sustagation has denied that the ship does not supply the conditions of security, i.e., those shipwrecks who are choking every day in the Mediterranean must be told to say, "I beg your pardon, but we cannot rescue you because safety is not guaranteed to be on our ship. Adiós y hoena luck; peden agarses, pero que Europe y el Estado spro su secureidad." Un poco de locos. At this moment, Bilbon is standing in front of the Sea Museum, and anyone who wants to visit. If you haven't gone, I recommend it. It's worth it. On Monday we went to meet that "Father Mary" from there, where we were shown how they had been fitted for the rescue, to take care of the wounded, to go to the port, and, in some measure, it is beautiful, because it is a symbol, but the vessel is frustrating: he is quite ready to begin with, but he is not permitted to do so. And in the meantime, the contactor won't stop. Nine people die in the Mediterranean a day; in the month 270s, in three months, 810; and therefore we transfer this proposition, as it were, to a certain extent of haste. The crew of Father Mari has explained to us that the laws fulfil all the conditions required by the laws, and rather than the law requires, but the government of Sánchezen, by the mouth of the Minister Ábalos, denies it. The "Father of Mari" taught us that there are 120 people there, a infirmary, 500 waistcoats, full of bodega food, rice packages, shitpots... All ready for the sea. They also have all the required certificates, but they say it's not a safe ship, according to the Ministry of Sustament. The Spanish Ministry says so, on the one hand, and on the other, "Father Mari" has the support of so many Basque institutions, you, Government." Well, today there's only one representative, but, well, Mrs. San José, you, the government, have been protected by several councils, the most part of us have protected him, the people have protected him, and our question has come to this point. what does this Spanish Government attitude mean? When Sánchez took the presidency he made a gesture with Aquarius, and we thought it right. We suspected it might be a blank gesture and now it's confirmed. It seemed as if the cruel and inhuman policy of PP's immigration would abandon it and start a new road, a policy which preponderates the person. It was just five years before yesterday that the Civil Guard had shot 15 immigrants in Tajaral and drowned them in the sea. But after six months the truth of the Spanish Government is here: They're tied up in the port "Father Mari" and "Open Arms," one of them in Bilbon, the other in Barcelona. What happened this time? Why did Sánchezen turn back? What wind has stirred his ways? If there is no technical reason, what is the reason: political? What's the calculation of Sánchezen's government? For he is afraid: of the fachodu? Or is he afraid of resisting criminal, cruel, inhuman policies in Europe? What happened? What have we lost on the way? And, as I said, in the meantime the receiver will not interrupt: Nine people die every day in the Mediterranean, 270 months, 810 months. And this is but one, because it is very hard to know how many die in the sea; according to the bodies found, and how much they disappear without being seen, we know not. That's why it's our emergency proposition when we transfer it. Now, for instance, while we are arguing, not far from here, in the Mediterranean, people are choking with death, one, two, three... We don't know how much. Like I said, nine days per day, but maybe more. We don't know. There are no witnesses of it. At this moment, there is no vessel in the Mediterranean of one of the independent institutions of the Government, because of the prohibitions of the one and the other. The European Union does not want witnesses, nor does the Spanish Government. "Let them attack me," even though the international laws plainly tell me that they have the right to be rescued. "Let them be," says the European Union. We're filled with talk about values, but the European Union says, "What's the matter with that! "It is," says the criminal policy, "that puts them in humanity, in the name of security. Whose security? That's why we think level, we need to implicate all the states. The citizen, stay, there are people involved, he's a show of that "Father Mari" and an "Open Arms." A symbol of the solidarity of nations, of tenderness. It is not properly the responsibility of the people to do the rescue; it is not, however admirable it may be. It is for the States to do this work, but they do not do it. Instead, they close European doors. What, then, are they to do with the people of conscience: "What are you looking at? People's representatives are responsible too. Today, with this emergency initiative, I think we're gonna get a pretty big deal. I appreciate the honesty of all of you, "Father Mari" and "Open Arms," as well as the impulse of this parliament. And now, forgive the next step, Mrs. San José, and you're going too? Well... We're gonna have to pay our regards to the next level or the station, but we're gonna be fine. We've always confessed to you that your speech is a good one, that it's the day of the chivgaur joke, that it's a proper, reassuring, compared to the xenophobic winds, but only words are not enough. Not now. We're asking you to work in time to say "Daddy Mari" so they're allowed to do the rescue work. That's what we're asking you to do right now, that's the commitment we're asking. If they were here, the interlocutors are with the Spanish State. And, to be honest, this is a bit funny: We are one of the countries in Europe with the greatest degree of autonomy, and yet we have not the power to allow a ship of ransom to sail with them. When we proclaim a special state, we're also talking about it. We want the right to determine what paper we want to play in the world. Whether we wish to send Dad to the Mediterranean or whatever it may be, we wish to decide here from our parameters. We're not afraid of fascists. This people have also adopted human rights in this respect. We must, therefore, look at the rest of this station, which stands above the Esscal institutions by degrees; To the Spanish Government. He's in his power, and he has the right to allow the "Father" to go to the Mediterranean. He has power and responsibility for what remains in the Mediterranean. It was six months ago in Sánchezen. Government hitzak eta ekintzak – it seemed that Sanchez was windy in a stern – and now, however, he has folded candles. Europaren aurrean harro agertu zen Sánchezen Gobernua eta orin kikildu egin da. Etxekaltean kikiltzeak indarra ematen diolako faxismoari, intolerantziari, beldurrari eta, kasu honetan, heriotzari, so, as Bertolt Brecht said, "There are many ways to kill. They can put a knife in your belly. Take your bread off. Don't cure yourself of a disease. Getting into a bad house. Push yourself to suicide. Torturing yourself to death through work. Take you to war, etc. Only a few of these things are prohibited by the state." That said Bertolt Brecht, but we can add that you can also kill yourself by leaving the shipwrecks in the Mediterranean to their fate. And that, as we have seen, is not prohibited either in the Spanish state or in the rest of the European states, because there are also many ways to make Salvini. To wish to live here, or to survive alone, this crime is punished by persons who have only one crime every day to die, and that is not a joke.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. My group will vote in favour of item 1, but we will oppose paragraphs 2 and 3 of the non-legislative proposal. And we will do so on issues of – we understand – legality, European, national and international regulations, legal situation, security of countries with nearby ports that also refuse to receive and give shelter: Libya, Malta, Italy... Well, they are factors that have an essential impact on some decisions, and, of course, on a Parliament such as this, it may be difficult to discuss a situation that interferes with the situation in fact and with the situation of law. We are not going to reject, through a non-legislative proposal, without a rigorous legal analysis or a comprehensive approach to the situation, the decisions that the Spanish Government takes in compliance with certain regulations, with maritime regulations and perhaps also with commitments made within the European Union, and with the security reasons that Mrs Bildu's spokesman minimizes and undervalues, but that are and are part of decisions that the Executive makes and that can be understood or not, but must be accepted at first. It seems that resources have been announced. We will see the legal reason or not, but, in any case, we cannot oppose that circumstance and that situation of decisions taken by a Government on the basis of the legality it considers applicable. We are faced with another initiative that must be taken, from our point of view, in Parliament, in the Congress of Deputies, in the Spanish Parliament or even in areas such as the European Parliament, where all of you or most of you have parliamentary representatives and where you also have the opportunity to talk about these issues which affect Community rules or the rules of the Member States, or to change laws, regulations, demand certain behaviours from Member States of the Union, discuss European agreements, the legality of them, talk about how they act in the countries where the mafia operate in a neutralizing way of the same... These are debates that, of course, in a parliament and through a non-legislative proposal in the Basque Parliament, we will not resolve. But an initiative like this cannot be placed in a chamber for the sole purpose of asking the Government of Spain to act in a way that may be unlawful or not aware of the legality if it has valued it at the time of making certain decisions. We understand that decisions are taken on the basis of legal commitments, regulations, and, in that regard, they will have to be analysed. In this sense, and in two media outlets, last Tuesday a lawyer expert in maritime law said the following in an analysis of the situation: "Organized mafias that control the trafficking of immigrants and refugees dedicate themselves to embarking on artifacts lacking the minimum conditions of navigability and security, and thus throwing them into the sea in the security that some third ship will be forced to save them in international waters, due to the loss of the duty of humanity and of maritime legality". Indeed, a very complicated situation with effects, with clear effects. And he also said the artist, the expert, that we are faced with a fraud of law. He referred to the Mafia business and described in his article the extremes of it and the tension between humanitarian action and the situation that is not legally normal and correct, but totally illegal. And in order to prevent this situation from continuing to worsen and degenerate, he said: "Member States must take measures to deal legally with this irregular situation". Well, we assume that's what the Spanish Government should do or what it's trying to do, and that's why our approach to that issue is. If we are allowed to vote separately from the points, we announce that we will vote in favour of item number one of the non-law proposal, I say again, if you allow that separate vote. We welcome the intention of non-governmental organizations working to assist refugees and migrants and, of course, urge them to try to do so and to take measures to comply with the law, in the permits they must obtain or in compliance with the regulations. This is the fundamental element that affects NGOs and affects everyone. That is why there is a margin for legal debate, policy debate or policy analysis in relation to decisions taken by Governments. But, of course, we cannot support the rest of the initiative, because if the Government of Spain does not find legal accommodation for the activities of the vessels described, we will not discuss it here. I say again: it may be in the courts, where some appeals have already been announced, but, of course, not in a non-law proposal. I insist, there are other forums to change regulations or revoke international and European commitments; they will have to come to themselves, and I suggest that they do so. It is clear that among the contradictions, the abundant contradictions in which the Government of Spain moves with its actions, with its declarations, confusion is what prevails. And therefore, what would have been more correct, probably politically, in the operative part of this non-legislative proposal, is to ask and ask the Government to clarify the instruments of assistance to those who undertake such entry into Europe by sea, in accordance with the rules and in compliance with international European agreements. It would have made more sense to explain that he would clarify at once and not move in the bandages, but to give a certain explanation about his commitments and how he will meet them. On the other hand, as I also recalled before, well, you will be the object of seeing what happens. Resources are on the table, resources that have been announced, resources that have already been presented, so we have seen through the media, by the owners of the ships that the proponents have alluded to (the "Aita Mari", the "Open Arms"), and those same owners have filed appeals before the courts. And it will also be good, from a legal or normative, legal point of view, to know also the position of the courts in this situation, in the analysis of all this legislation that competes, alluded to for reasons of security and for other different, and to see in that sense who is definitely right. That is why, in this regard, the priority in this debate which leads us to this very serious and complicated situation, the priority remains from a European point of view, from a policy point of view of the European Union and from an international policy point of view in this case too, to act in the countries, of course, where these mafias act to neutralize them, to control them. That's an outstanding subject, but it's something we have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u28	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u29	Good morning. If there is anything that Spanish citizens, including the Basques, have full record of, it is of the unequivocal humanitarian commitment of the government that Pedro Sánchez presides. They know that well because their first performance – as Mrs Agirre reminded us – as president was to give protection to almost 700 people abandoned to their fate at sea, however much this debate is intended in part to distort that performance. And what is unquestionable, humanitarian commitment, is not incompatible with the rigour in authorizing ships and organizations that, with their best will, want to give that protection. And it is not incompatible for this plenary to try to mix things up and for a great deal of value to be incorporated into the initiative that is clear in its justification. One thing is to support the work of the crews of the "Open Arms" or the "Aita Mari", in addition to our institutions, the government we are part of, supporting this cause – both issues my group is going to support – and another very different is to ask a government, be it Basque or Spanish, as is the case, that prevails. And what is even worse than prevaricating is to skip existing maritime regulations. Because there is such a regulation, Mrs Agirre, a regulation which, by skipping it, would endanger those crews and those who could rescue them with their express permission. I do not know – and I am referring to this because the proposer does not miss the opportunity to talk about the sovereignty of Euskadi and Catalonia, he also mentioned it in his intervention, although it is worth the tragedy of immigration – whether an independent Euskadi government would give such permits, jumping to the toaster the international conventions in marine rescue, human security at sea and international maritime traffic. I do not know if you would, but, of course, do not count on the Socialists or for that independent government that they long for, neither to break the rules, nor to circumvent international agreements, which do not affect us, is to protect us. Because it is these conventions that have been analyzing the Directorate of the Merchant Navy, which is not an agency created to suppress the right of Basques to aspire to a great world. No, no, It's just that the Basques, who know a lot about the sea, are protected by those international agreements, which say what they say. And as has already been argued, the International Maritime Organization assigns to each coastal nation maritime areas of exclusive responsibility for maritime search and rescue. And to act in the unassigned – which is what the "Aita Mari" would have to do in this case – requires a permit from the coastal countries that it does not have. And without that permission, I would have to cross the Mediterranean for several days to return here, even Spanish waters, to disembark the shipwrecks, compromising – even if you don't think so – compromising the safety of the crew and the aided shipwrecks. These and not others are the reasons why, even if we took care of all the people who could be rescued, it is not certain that they can do so, and it is certain that they will not be able to do so in intermediate ports because we already know the position of the rest of the coastal countries of the central Mediterranean area, of the Salvini and company. This is not to disagree, this is to worry, this is to continue working with the rest of Europe to ensure that all countries comply with humanitarian rescue obligations on the high seas, which is not happening, unfortunately. I do not know if you will succeed in convincing Salvini to offer safe ports, and I admit to you that Pedro Sánchez has not succeeded either, it is true, but I do not know, try you, that I am sure you are much more convincing. But it is not only with voluntarism or good intentions, because, if that were the case, no one would doubt that we would be the first to fully subscribe to this initiative, because the Socialists do want these humanitarian actions, as we want our volunteers to do with all the guarantees, both. And here, in this Parliament, we cannot act as if international maritime law did not exist, although some have old practice in this regard, and I say this because seeing this proposal I did not cease to remember that two legislatures ago, also with a socialist government in Spain, some in this House and in other instances sought imaginative solutions to put an end to the kidnapping of a tuna vessel where our ships were suffering permanent harassment. And it comes to my mind how some people said that that socialist government was insensitive to the kidnapped, to the feeling of an entire people, and that it was best that the Spanish Army, the Spanish Army, intervened; yes, they proposed that tunamen militarize and that the soldiers shoot at the kidnappers or at any attacker, who, it is to be remembered, were civilians. Anyway, a misconception. Well, we were left alone, we were also left alone then defending an alternative, safe and effective action: to protect the ships with private security and to act in the ports of origin of the pirates to avoid attacks. And we remember Carme Chacón and we remember how he took action protected by the European institutions – which is what should be done here too – and we remember that the result was much better than what some enthusiastically defended in this Parliament, jumping international regulations and the minimum foundations of safety at sea. And this is what we're going to defend today too. We will partially support your initiative, point one and point three, and we will abstain on point two.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u30	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u31	"Today Libya is no place for any human being. They steal everything you have, including your soul, and they crush it. "We were 135 on the boat. When we went out, the darkness was total. None of us had life jackets. They wanted a lot more money, but we didn't have enough. We spent almost 24 hours at sea. Before the rescue our ship was full of water up to half. We were all so scared. When we fell into the water it was cold and it was dark. People were pulling from me, from my clothes." Ali, Nigeria, 18, rescued by the Aquarius. "It's been hard to pass through Libya. I've seen human trafficking, violence, trafficking in women. Many people are promised work in Libya, they are told that there is a lot of work, but everything is a lie. Most of them are young women (18, 19, 17 years). They make them prostitute themselves." Oumar, Gambia, 15 years old, rescued by the Open Arms. "Many of our women are working in Libyan houses as cleaners. You'll hear that many of them say things like 'Yesterday raped me' or 'My boss hit me'. This is no place to stay. There are rebels, they kidnap people to pay them. They can get you into your house, kidnap you and your family, and force you to call your house, and while they have you with them, they rape men, women, harass children, and if you don't accept it, they kill you. I will not forget this, what has happened, I will not forget it in my life." Christiana, 24, Nigeria, rescued by Dignity. These words are not from any film or novel; they are as real as life in many Mediterranean countries. These are the words of people rescued by ships we've all heard of, the "Open Arms", the "Dignity", the "Aquarius"... Today I wanted to take advantage of this rostrum to amplify the voice to the people you never hear, even if they are spoken of daily. Today I wanted their stories, those of those who suffer the indifference of European governments, those who occupy the central place of my speech; those who suffer the consequences of the government now refusing to let go of the "Aita Mari" or the "Open Arms". I wanted it to be heard on the same day that this Parliament takes a decision that can affect their lives and that in fact affects their deaths. For as long as we are here, the "Father Mari" and the "Open Arms" remain in the harbour instead of saving lives, so that Ali, Christiana, Ibrahim, or Oumar, have no end of suffering and suffering. Today with this debate we put a granite sand, no doubt, for humanitarian rescue ships to go out to defend in the Mediterranean the right to life of thousands of people, as the crews of the "Open Arms", the "Aquarius", the "Aita Mari" or any of the rescue ships have already been doing. As the members of the platform Ongi Etorri Errefuxiatuak reminded us, together with the pensioners of Bilbao this Monday, with a version of the song of Santa Águeda, "Itsasoan migranteak daude erreskateari begira, 'Aita Mari' tartean lotuta, ezin joan laguntzera. Ongi etorri gurera, 'Aita Mari', bathed ez zaitugu hemen behar; zoaz Mare Nostrumera, itxaroten zaituzte han". "Open Arms" estimates that since January 8, when they paralyzed their rescue ship, more than 300 people have died. 339 life projects drowned in the doors of our house, more than 300 people who might have been saved. "Aita Mari" has been standing since January 18th and seems to be going long. Take count of how many lives. UNHCR estimates that during 2018 six people died every day in the waters of the Mediterranean, yes, they died without observers or witnesses, without eyes to report, that help stop this genocide in the form of drowning lives. A genocide that is taking place at the door of our house and that we don't even seem to want to look at. 2,275 people with their lives, stories, longings and dreams disappeared at sea in 2018. One out of 51 people who fell into the sea failed; for every 14 who come to earth one dies, that we know. Can we shut up to this, can we stand idly by or clear our conscience with a parliamentary agreement? Well, I honestly don't think so. We are clear that we can do much more and we hope that Euskadi, Spain and Europe will do more. We can put an end to these tragedies by having the courage and ambition to look beyond the next ship and adopt a long-term approach based on regional cooperation and focused on life and human dignity, because saving lives at sea is not an option or a political issue, it is an ancestral obligation. They are not my words, no, they are those of the highest responsibility of UNHCR, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Are we gonna let UNHCR down? It would be the culmination of Europe's hypocrisy as a cradle of human rights. Not only is UNHCR saying this, it is that in order for Mr. Barrio and Mr. Pastor to be calm, the Progressive Union of Prosecutors – which I say they know something about laws – has shown their concern and has ruled, from a legal and merely legal perspective, that "This decision is a political, non-administrative act. This political decision whites and validates the policies that violate human rights." They say – and I am quoting textually – that "The dispatch of a ship must be an administrative, not a political, act that must be limited to verifying that the ship meets the necessary requirements". And these ships fulfill them. The "Aita Mari" fulfills them. Therefore, the prosecutors conclude, not me, that "The refusal of the permission to continue constitutes de facto a preventive precautionary measure that prevents the ship from sailing to waters close to Libya – the main gateway for immigrants –, subjecting the authorization of the departure of the ship to the existence of an agreement for the landing of those rescued by the authorities responsible for the SAR areas concerned". For those who do not know, we refer to Italy, Malta and Libya. Libya, which is a country declared unsafe for the landing by many international human rights agencies. In this situation the "Aita Mari" and the "Open Arms" are being forced to fulfil an impossible condition, and that is a political criterion, because they are principles of Roman law, that the law cannot force you to comply with something that is impossible, Ad impossible nemo tenetur (No one is obliged to the impossible). Honest, jaun-andreok, ez will say irizpid politicokoak, aitzakia politicokoak baizik. Mr Ábalos, Minister of Development, in December congratulated Salvamento Marítimo on his 25th anniversary and showed a firm commitment from the Government to remain a global reference for the rescue of people. In December he defined this service as a protection network for all; however, January comes and accuses them of being suspected of irregular transport, staining on humanitarian rescue organizations the patina of suspicion, fraud and criminalization. We hope that the 31st of January was an unfortunate lapsus, that it is not but a misinterpretation that outside the Spanish coasts the rescues and the people are not our responsibility. I sincerely hope and trust that the skating will only be the minister's and that what is here today is the will of the PSE in Ordizia, which has tabled a motion rejecting and deploring the decision of the Merchant Marine Directorate, although listening to Mr Pastor today seems to me to be in vain. Yesterday at the Gipuzkoa General Councils, an identical motion was adopted, which we tabled today as an amendment, an amendment which, as you know, we have withdrawn for the sake of consensus, because in these matters it is essential to build on consensus. I will not deny that I withdraw the amendment with a certain stir, because I do not understand why in Gipuzkoa yes and not here, because I do not understand why we are not brave to fight things here too, because I fear that this agreement can be a small toast to the sun, that stays in nothing. However, we hope, in spite of everything, that we will do our best to ensure that this agreement will serve, that a response will soon be given to the views of the citizens, who are demanding solidarity and commitment, to the commitments that are said to be made, to the height, no more or less, than human rights. We hope that the actions which we have agreed on today are not to be lost, and soon to sail, so that the persons who are drowning in the Mediterranean may be rescued. We hope, likewise, that the European Union should react and remedy, by remembering the reasons for its origin, and finally respecting the rights of all human beings, whence its origins were derived.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Eubertarians. Mr. Ramírez-Ecudero, your word is yours. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: Good morning, everyone. Many Mediterranean countries are keeping the ships of some ONGG. These are the only object of saving the lives of the southern emigrants who seek to reach the shores of Europe. Today we wish to demand these governments to unlock the situation and allow the ships to sail, so that they can rescue the narciers. We are going to vote affirmatively on the three points of the proposal, of Euskal Herria Bildu's timely proposal, and I have thought of starting with a perhaps somewhat dramatic phrase, which is from the medical officer of the "Aita Mari", which a few days ago said something like that the less witnesses there are in the Mediterranean, the easier it will be for them to do a policy of repression. Let us trust that this sentence is applicable to the present, but that it does not have much effect in time, because we also trust, of course, that sooner there will be permission for both the "Open Arms" and the "Aita Mari" to leave and leave Barcelona and Bilbao, respectively. I understand what Mr. Pastor has told us about the technical issues of the merchant navy. I think the ministry was putting two sticks to give permission to these two NGO ships. The first was the merchant navy's technical permit and the second was the uncertainty that there would be open ports to accommodate them when migrants had been rescued in the Mediterranean. I think we're confusing the approach. The question is not a technical question of the merchant navy, or at least not 100%, and it is rather a question of human rights. A week ago nationalist deputy Iñigo Barandiaran reminded the Minister of Development that respect for human rights must be the guiding principle of any government action. I understand that there is rigidity on the part of the merchant navy in other cases, but I also understand that there should be another view on this. Why? Because we don't talk about normal ships, we don't talk about a normal boat that for leisure or business reasons has a load or has a specific number of passengers, and has a port from which it departs and has a port to which it arrives. We're talking about two ships that only know one thing: that when they go out, they're going out, and they're going out, the "Open Arms" from Barcelona, the "Aita Mari" from Bilbao, and they don't know anything else. They know their approximate course, the central Mediterranean, but then they don't know if they're going to go back to some port, if they're going to leave some port, and they don't know if they're going to go back to 50 migrants, 100 or 200. Previously it was said that the "Aita Mari" cover is 120 people, but I have no doubt that, if the "Aita Mari" meets a 250-person patera in the middle of the central Mediterranean, it will not apply the regulations of the Merchant Navy and it will say "120 and the others stay there". He's going to catch, of course, at 250. So, we're talking about ships that should be guarded by the merchant navy, but not 100%. First of all, for its purpose. Its purpose is to save lives and its purpose is to fulfil human rights. And secondly because they are ships that, I insist, cannot declare before leaving their function, their departure, their destination, their date of arrival, because, obviously, it does not depend on them, but it depends on how the Mediterranean is, depends on how the pateras are and never knows how many people are going to return on board or where they are going to return. The second argument demanded by the ministry in Madrid was the issue of ports. Of course, we all know – because it has also been said here – that Malta and Italy are not going to open their ports, that Libya is not a recommended port either, that the French Mediterranean is quite north and quite far away, and that only the ports of the Spanish Levant or Andalusia remain geographically. So, we have to be aware of that, that these ships are going back to these ports. But if the ministry of Madrid is saying not to leave the ships perhaps it is because it does not want them to return to their ports, with which we would be matching the action of the government of Madrid with the action of the governments of Italy or Malta. We all want and want – because it would be logical – to have European legislation, to have a distribution in European countries in proportion to any type of economic population unit, so that we all know how many European countries take care of how many migrants, but sadly there are no. So there are two solutions: either to keep the ships tied because we don't know which port they're going to take them to, or to let them leave knowing that they may, of course, end up in any port of the Spanish Levant. I would like to repeat the phrase that Mr Barandiaran told the Minister for Development: "respect for human rights is the inspiring principle of government action". We are not facing a technical problem of boat navigability, we are not – I believe – facing a specific problem of the merchant navy. We understand that the merchant navy has to put some sort of regulation, but I think that in this case the regulation has to be a little more lax, a little more relaxed, above all, by an important aspect, and it is because the function of these ships is not going to be neither leisure nor business, but it is simply going to be to rescue human lives. And it is much better that they rescue them, without knowing which port they will be welcomed into, that they do not rescue them. It is much better than on a boat in which navigability is assured with 100 people there are 300, even if they are overcrowded, than they are in the depths of the Mediterranean waters. I think we should take a look around and introduce the human rights element instead of introducing so many technical aspects of the merchant navy. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. We'll take the answers turn. EHGG rep. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u34	Mr. Barrio, Mr. Pastor, as the saying goes, "Who made the law made the trap," and you two, I think you've come to cheat, a little bit, on account of the law. Mr. Barrio wanted to ask, for example, what law or regulations allow radars to have been turned off for several months. Is it for legal reasons or maybe it's not to see what's going on? I don't know, I'd like to know. Mr. Pastor, you're talking about provoking. I don't know, the government you support has funded the Aita Mari. I don't know... haven't you been informed before? Or, what did they think the Aita Mari's intentions were going to be, but those of rescuing people? So, you don't understand well either, knowing that then I was going to obey the law by rescuing people...; then, I don't understand very well how that... I'm going to give only one data. The immigrants who go into Europe enter 7% of the airports, as if calm. I don't know whether there's any mafia there, what it's supposed to be, what controls the government does, what the law says... All the immigrants seem to come from the sea, but most of them are coming from the airports, and then I'd like to know what government says about it. I believe that the Spanish Government, although well begun, has become timid, and has here accepted the inhuman policy of European immigration, and now the fear of Sánchez has caused terror. Because, if we go to the law, I think that both the Open Arms and the Aita Mari will have the right to sail; and if they meet a patera, what are they going to say to them: "Epa, how about, it looks like it's going to rain. Is that kid yours? What a potxolo, what a big eyes he has! But, I'm sorry, I can't take him on this boat because it's not for ransom"? Wouldn't it be also violating the law, the maritime law that forces the shipwrecks to be rescued? Then, I don't know, they'll explain to me how this is solved by the law. I think there's no law that's above people. And as Mr. Escudero has said, the first foundation here is the first principle, human rights, and the greatest is that of life.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Well, from today's debate there are several issues. Indeed, there is the issue of rescue, of the people who are thrown into the waters of the Mediterranean by the mafias in the case before us, but there is also a legal debate and there is a debate of legality, there is a debate of interpretation of the laws, and, logically, we cannot get away from it and from the decisions made by the ministries or the governments of the member countries of the European Union in relation to some issues which are questionable but which are ultimately based on certain decisions to accommodate legality. In other words, Mr Ramírez-Escudero has said that regulation must be more lax or more relaxed. I don't know, I think that's somewhat incompatible with the pure application of regulations or laws. In other words, we must apply the law, and of course from my group we understand that permits are given if the laws and legal conditions are complied with, or that they are refused if the legal conditions are not complied with. And in that sense, that is what leads us to have this position of rejection of that to what Mr Pastor has called, to force the Government of Spain to prevail. The Government of Spain is understanding that it is implementing legislation affecting these vessels, and in this regard, what is at stake is a legal debate. Let us see what decisions the Government continues to make, what accommodation is given to maritime legality, and let us see what decisions the courts can also make in the appeals that are filed. That is a fundamental issue. And again, the European Union and the Member States, in relation to the crisis of refugees, of migrants at sea, have pending subjects. Logically, yes. In other words, let us hope that there will be agreements and that progress will be made in the commitments that the Member States have on relevant humanitarian or security issues in the Mediterranean; but, above all, we also believe that it is a fundamental task to neutralize that role of the mafia wherever they put immigrants into the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u37	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u38	Well, I would first like to thank the tone of the debate, because in times of exuberance and overaction as we live in Spain I believe that a calm debate on such important issues as this is to be thanked. What interests me to stress again is the commitment to this problem by the Government of Spain, because it has not been only the "Aquarius" that arrived on the Spanish coasts because they did not allow it to dock in other ports, there have been more ships since then because the Spanish ports have never been closed; because added actions have been put in place to strengthen the Marine Rescue Service, as you know perfectly well – which, by the way, has been saturated with work during everything that has been going on in southern Spain and in the Levant – because collaboration agreements have been made with the NGOs to improve the care of immigrants; because the services of care to them have been strengthened and improved; because they have been made announcements – which I believe to be important – such as the partial withdrawal of the concertinas from the Ceuta and Melilla valleys. And all this implies commitments in a humanitarian struggle. It is true that we could have been very satisfied and said: "Come, okay, the whole mountain is oregano. We're gonna be good, we're gonna take the picture and we're gonna say let 'Open Arms' and 'Aquarius' set sail from here, from the Basque Parliament, where, as everyone knows, we don't have that choice. We made you a proposal to include in this non-law proposal that you have brought. In addition to what is said in his proposal – with what we, as he repeated, partially agreed – we called for something to be done that really had effect, which is to urge the Government of Spain to press within the European Union for the modification of those inhumane criteria which Malta, which Italy and which also raises France, although in a more subterranean way. Because I think it is important to remember that of all the coastal countries of the Central Mediterranean, the only one with all the open ports is Spain. The rest does not, the rest keeps them closed or semi-closed; then, in the end, something will be doing well from a humanitarian point of view and from a different perspective when it comes to this problem. Therefore, we, I repeat, sympathize with the NGOs and the crew of the two vessels that are now being held in port, which is the first point. We also think it is good that the Basque Government can try to mediate with the Spanish Government to help it to a resolution that is largely European, not Spanish or Italian, is European, is to convince certain censors – forgive me the expression – that there is in European politics that they refuse to admit even one immigrant, because they accuse them of all the evils of the universe. But understand that, as a representative of the Socialist Party, what I cannot do is criticize a government that I believe is showing a sensitivity that the governments in Spain have not had for many years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u39	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u40	Thank you, ma'am. I'm going to keep the tone, because I also share that it's important, but I do want to say some things. The first is that the crew of the "Aita Mari" has shown us all the permissions, and has permissions above what is asked of it according to the type of boat it is. They did so, in fact, thinking that there might be demands above what they have; er, permits are not a problem, they are a matter of political will. The next thing, Mr. Barrio, is that that justification you make of the mafias when you talk about them throwing them into the sea makes it look like human beings are objects, and that's very bad, that's very bad. But not only is it very bad, but, be that way or be "sao", nothing, absolutely nothing can justify letting people drown in the sea. Because at sea, Mr. Barrio, there are no whites, no blacks, no foreigners, no nationals. At sea there are people who shipwreck, and international law requires that we save them. Mr. Pastor, please don't take the breast off the partial withdrawal of the concertinas. Better, leave it for another day. Because the concertinas, partially or totally the ones that you put in, the ones that enlarged them and the ones that continue and today are dismantling to pieces, kill people as well. Europe, long since you forgot your mission, that is clear. He was born as a human rights agent, as a defender and an international mediator in conflict and has forgotten all that made him born. I believe that if all the countries that make up the European Union are cowards and assume that no more can be done or no better can be done, we are only part of the horror. I think it's up to us to be brave and to demonstrate with facts that we can do more and that we can do better. It's important to be an example. The Aita Mari crew, I'm sure they appreciate today's agreement. I reiterate the need for consensus on this issue, the need to end histrionic discourses, but, above all, I believe that what is at stake is the defence of the right to life, and, if that happens to tear our skin by fighting to be an example and not to be cowards at home, it will be worth it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Ramírez-Escuder doesn't have to talk... Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote against the proposal of the EHG as a Team. You've been asking for stitches, yes. No points requested. Is there a problem? No. Okay, then we vote one by one. We'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u42	So the first point is unanimously accepted. We'll vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 56; the contrary, 9; white, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u43	So the second point is accepted. And finally, we vote for the third point. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 9; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u44	So the third point has also been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, concerning the production of a gate-office. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr Martínnezion, your word is to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u45	Good morning. We're here to talk about our own housing again, and I must confess that I've come with a spot of frustration at this moment or this day. It is true, from opposition, that together from the Podemos, we have introduced several initiatives around this matter in the vicinity of the housing. In order to develop and fulfil the law, the rights of the housing have been proposed to ensure the subjective right. And, yes, sometimes we've got a deal, but I've got to admit that in this respect the position of this government is very slow and relaxed. But it's still on the street. Yesterday we found out that the price of the housing is rising again, that it was going up, for sale, for rent. In 2017, 32% more home launches, even more so than in 2016, and if we compare it with the state, in Euskadi 32% higher, and in the rest of the Spanish state 4.3. Not to mention at this time the silent evictions, the abusive increases in the rental price. I say again: do you know the prices that are being paid in our capitals and in our villages in rent? That 900 euros average in Bilbao? Those over 1,000 in Donostia? Yesterday the report said that it had risen even further, 6% in Donostia. What are we doing in our cities and in our villages? So, I ask, is there a problem or is there no problem? Yeah, there's a problem, of course. And even if I have the means, it's not what you're gonna do. We have a law, a good law, but the development of this law is very slow, too slow. And in the meantime, the Spanish Government has also failed with the Urban Leases Act, failing to comply with agreements also reached weeks earlier, in this case with our parliamentary group in Unidos Podemos, as vital as starting to stop and limit rental prices by law. The PSOE had it easy, if it wanted that decree to have been passed, that was to comply with the agreement it had with our parliamentary group, but, once again, between improving people's lives and complying with the sacrosanct law of the market, the PSOE has again chosen the market. A market that is a jungle of abusive prices, of abusive practices, however much you would laugh, because before this, the response of the Basque Government is slow and the response of the Government of Spain has been again, before this rise in prices, before this jungle that is the market of rent and the market of sale, to re-choose the law of the market. And this initiative, which was very concrete, which is not going to come forward today, at least for what we were told yesterday, this initiative was so concrete that all it seeks is to unify the various services that the Government has in the field of housing counselling. We have people who have to travel, we have people who have to go to Bizilagun, we have people who then have to go to Justice, to the mortgage mediation service. And then we have people who have to go to Kontsumobide. The only thing we are saying with this initiative is that it improves the coordination of the Government and, therefore, improves the Government's own action and improves the quality of care for people in the area of housing. Other autonomy communities (such as Castile Manchas and Aragoi) have created structures for the last few years to integrate their attention to tenants, and they have also subjected them to the housing series. They've got a program for mortgages and rental housing units organized around the social management units for the housing. Young mandials, the traffic-offices of the mortgages, were formed in the rear-grounds of the house. They care not only for technical or legal guidance, but also for the support of families, by a mutual agreement with the social workers of the country and those of the Hebrews. This facilitates the co-ordination of judicial organs in order to re-establish homeless ones. And here – I say it again – was a simple initiative, the only thing we came to say is that here we continue with parallel services and not always well coordinated. For all these reasons, we propose this initiative, to create a united intermediary. I repeat, the exact measure, cheap, and rather light enough to start. Eta zertarako? It is necessary to unify housing guidance and care, both for people in emergency situations and for those who are not; it is necessary to make preventive information; it is necessary to advise in cases of mortgage over-indebtedness, prevention of abuse, etc., etc. We propose that the Housing Department introduce this unified housing guidance service into its operation. In addition, we ask the Government, the whole Government, in this case again to say that it is the Department of Housing that leads it, that it coordinate with schools and professionals specialized in different matters related to housing, that such advice be made in an integral way, with architects, with lawyers, with managers of farms, etc., etc., with workers and workers and social educators. And also, of course, coordinate this with the municipalities and the administration of justice. A unified focus on housing, coordinated, ending the current dispersion and dizziness for people in vulnerable situations, who cannot afford to get lost in this sea of bureaucracy, in this sea of obstacles and in this sea of unnecessary displacements. These displacements turn something that would have to be automatic, something that would have to be an immediate response by the Government, into a real headache, into an extremely serious situation for the people who suffer it. In the housing department, it's done for you. This would be a service to the people who are in trouble. But I should say more: As I have said before, it would facilitate the activity of government. But this initiative does not seem to be going to work, we still think it necessary. I would like to ask myself at this time, in this debate, what will there is in this case a department led by the Basque Socialist Party, in this coalition government with the Basque Nationalist Party, what will there is to do in this matter, when what they propose is to renew an agreement that we have already approved in previous sessions, and four more generic things, which many of them are also approved in the housing monograph and when they also propose, at one of their points, to renew the Urban Leases Act, when we know what they have just done in Congress and the sound defeat that President Sánchez had for failing to comply with the agreements he had with the left, which he often forgets; what will the Basque Socialist Party have when it is unable to coordinate three areas – curiously, and I have not made any bet – that we propose to coordinate this unified service of housing guidance, this unified care office in housing, three departments that you manage: Housing, Justice and Kontsumbide, with the Councilor Tortillo in a position of departure. Not even these three that depend on their three departments. That shows the will. We are talking about coordinating from an office that, I say again, would be easy to assemble, would be cheap to assemble and would certainly fix a lot of the lack of coordination in the government and would also fix a lot the day-to-day lives of our citizens, who have this right to housing if not curtailed, yes very, very, very limited. And I say again: the law is good, but we have to get it started and we have been..., the legislature is going to end and everything goes super slow: that if the decree, that if we always talk and then not, three more months, six more months, to see the report... It's been January. We're already in February. Several things that had a deadline... I asked him in December; for a reply from Councillor Arriola, they were supposed to be presented in January. They're not. So, I say again: what is the will to put all these resources into action? And what will is there, when services similar to those we are putting in place, your colleagues in Aragon or Castile La Mancha have put in place them? So, I don't know if it's any of your business or it's something that the ladies and gentlemen of the PNV don't leave you. We have resources to move forward and power ahead of a housing policy and not to continue this automatic dynamic. It's a big problem. We've got a lot of trouble out there. People are standing in the street, and it is essential that a decent apartment should be secured for everyone. There are no excuses for not putting in place concrete actions like these we are saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u46	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u47	Hello. Thank you. Good noon, everyone. Well, I'm beginning to say that we see the necessity of an intermediary office, of course, in the emergency offices of life for an integrated orientation and attention, for the prevention of the mortgageal cases, for the prevention and advice of the abuses that may be given in the housing trade, for the persons who are found in the dismemberment of the ordinary apartment, and in general to give a direction to any other situation or other situation connected with the housing, or to doubt. We need all this. I must say that in some measure it remains short, and I shall explain why, but it is a proper proposition, as Mr. Martínnez has described very well. So I won't repeat the need for this. From the time that the Housing Act was accepted, we have repeated, or, considering one of the demands we have made, I say, that what we have received in this legal proposition is, as it were, a sort of argument to be interrupted. And now that I've been offered a chance, I'll take advantage of the opportunity to ask you again and again. The fifth article of the Housing Law must be established to produce an autonomous organization, which is intended to assemble at the moment of accepting the law all the public and institutions in the housing department. And as is said in the third regulation of this law, there is a time for the production of this autonomous organization from the very moment at which the law is introduced. It has been four years since the law was admitted, and this autonomous organization has not been produced, like many other developments or other things received in the law. As Mr Martínnez has well explained, the development of this law proceeds more slowly than it has been, although we have repeatedly introduced so many initiations that the development of this law may be somewhat exaggerated. And you've been telling me all these times, both privately and privately, here in this room, that you have no intention of creating that autonomous organization, that there are no priorities, that it has other priorities and so on. The necessity of this autonomous organization was precisely when I read what my mind first asked me to do, because I understand that it must be contained in that autonomous organization to treat any subject relating to the apartment. But in order to obtain a consent or a medium, or to make it easier, I did not enter into it, because I knew you would be quite contrary to it. So what I did was... I only introduced a correction, as Mr. Martín has well explained, in order to give to all that I was talking about, and to give a counselal office to all the things related to the house in general. I went to Generalize, because I see that there is need in so many things, not only in matters mentioned in this legal proposition. But, as has been said, it was not possible to reach that middle course. Yes, I can see the necessity especially because they are still present at the present day, and that in future it is possible to provide for the people's assistance in the loss or removals of the usual housing; especially those people are the people who are in the most vulnerable circumstances. But not only these, but it may happen to any one, to find them in the presence of such a situation, and these people often find themselves wandering, instead of knocking too much on the door for help. There are municipal society services, and we have HUDIA or HACIA, which are within the Housing Department, a service to aid the intermediary of the mortgages and families under the Department of Justice, and to aid Turism, commerce, and consumers, direct (service to the local authorities) To mention some, these are the various services which are available to the people. Most of the time in the cities, there have been few such services in the country. There are also tramites to be done through the Internet or inclusolate on the telephone. There are plenty of them, but we don't often know where to go. We have all been lost or lost in this confusion; or if you know how to move or ask for help to know where to move or how to move. And I want to talk about... Thank God there are many responsible and many individuals who work for the most serious cases. Thanks to these, many people have often been able to receive a sufficiently direct and complete orientation. To avoid all this confusion I have mentioned, as it was to facilitate the support of the people to produce this mediating office, in order to give them an integral and solid service, which is contained in this other. I see a necessity for all that has been said. It wouldn't have been necessary that the co-ordination between the two teams who support this government should have been made in this organization or the interstate office. Yes, the co-ordination of the organizations, of course, have the councils there, we have the Judicial power, we must maintain their co-ordination, but the co-ordination of the divisions would not be necessary if everything had been centralized in an intermediary office. Then we have come to the middle of the Podemos for all that I have said, and it is a pity that we have not added to that middle course any more, so that he will not go on, I am sorry that he will. We shall not, of course, be able to explain the opposition of the Government to the corrections introduced by groups, because we do not see that the elements present are necessary. There are necessary ones, but they have nothing to do with the essence of the other. There's a pact with Judicial and Eudel. This promise was not long since renewed. I thought, observing your words, it worked very well. I don't know. Is it necessary to renew this pact? All right, we'll do it again. If it'll work better, we'll agree. And, well, the points mentioned on top of them... yes, we need an integrated focus plan for attention, but it's not exactly what's required in this one. What is required in this other Law, is plain: a divisional office, which will coordinate all the doubts and concerns which concern the housing, and all for the benefit of the people, to facilitate the affairs of the people, especially to aid the citizens in the most vulnerable and worst circumstances. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u48	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u49	Thank you, ma'am. Madam Mount, I am grateful to you for having a will, and to deprive you of many things you required in this transaction. But we thought you were asking for almost everything or that they're doing right now. Mr. Martinez used to say that we were "motels." Well, I believe that it is you who walk "motels", because here, many of the issues you have commented have been going on for many years now. And what surprises me is that you, who are so enemies of creating chiringuitos, come here and propose to us to create another that according to you is absolutely treacherous, "merke-merke". "Merke-merke." You'll tell me how. In any case, I, look, thank you for bringing us here two good examples of good management, such as the examples of Aragon and Castilla La Mancha – by the way, governed by two socialists – but I would like to remind you that the situation in Euskadi is very different, among other things, because in Castilla La Mancha and Aragon there were no services to meet these needs and in Euskadi we had been working for years. By refreshing his memory a little bit, and to show him that the will of the Socialists is not from now on, but for a long time now, I will tell him all the instruments and measures that have been put in place in this country to meet these needs. In 2012, creation by the Department of Justice, led by then councillor Idoia Mendia, of a mortgage mediation service that aimed to try to negotiate with the financial institutions the amounts owed by the people concerned and, ultimately, an alternative to the eviction of them; pioneering measure in the state and which, by the way, knows Marta Higueras perfectly, that I don't know if you know who it is, but she is a close collaborator of Manuela Carmena, before so applauded by you and now seems to be so missed or I don't know... Secondly, a cooperation agreement was also signed with the College of Economists and Censors, which is still in force. Third, an agenda was approved on October 15, 2012, by the then board member of Housing, Public Works and Transport, Mr Arriola – does that ring a bell? Thus, that–, in which the registration of housing applicants and the procedures for the award of officially protected housing and self-contained accommodation took the option of exempting from the general housing award procedure for persons affected by a mortgage execution procedure or a rental launch if a number of requirements were met. Fourthly, on 18 June 2013, a partnership agreement was signed with the General Council of the Judiciary and the Association of Basque-Eudel Municipalities, an agreement that encouraged the early detection of cases of vulnerability on the occasion of family housing launches and the possibility of enabling measures to address these issues. They are direct – direct – procedures between the courts and the municipalities, directly from the court to the social services of each of the municipalities; direct, personalized, exclusive, concrete care, tailored to each of the affected. Finally, I believe that the actual cases of inability to cope with the payment of other cases where there is no willingness to deal with existing debts – which also exist – must also be distinguished many times, and which, through this agreement, are also detected and also revealed to the social services of each municipality. Today, in addition to the mortgage mediation service we have Bizilagun, which directly awards housing in extreme cases to people who need it and who are going to suffer a eviction, and Kontsumobide, which, of course, ensures the rights of Basque consumers, as well as those who have some kind of problem and act through mediation with this service. It is true that it has been found that the detection of alleged cases of vulnerability is more agile, that action can be faster, more effective, more efficient, but that does not mean that the creation of an entity that manages all that is necessary. We understand that this is not necessary, that it has an additional cost to the services that are already de facto being provided by the administration, in addition to a way that I believe is exemplary and that shows the effectiveness of the interinstitutional collaboration between the different administrations of Euskadi and the General Council of the Judiciary. And I believe that we have also taken steps to that end. Why? Finally, I believe that in the communication to social services the whole procedure to be carried out, which was collected at the time and which has also been amended through Law 5/2018 of 11 June, amending Law 1/2000, establishing a series of issues, a series of itineraries but which has been modified so that from the different courts it is communicated directly to the social services of each municipality as soon as such a case is detected. Therefore, there is already a legal obligation to communicate to social services; legal obligation, legal obligation through the law. And in addition, as you said, this government will shortly bring to your council the adoption of a new agreement with the General Council of the Judiciary and with the Association of Basque Municipalities-Eudel, which, as you said earlier, will improve the instruments and improve the mechanisms to be able to detect more quickly and thus act directly with the people concerned, which will establish a much faster route – as you said – and which will also create a new computer register so that interinstitutional action will also be much faster and much more effective, that is, a single application on which to be able to work and act. And I am aware that the adoption of this agreement is a priority for this Government, as is also the priority for the development and management of urgent aspects that are pending to be managed in relation to the Housing Act, such as the adoption of the decree guaranteeing the subjective right to housing, or as is, for example, the provision of more resources for the expansion of the public housing park for rent, even though you did not want to approve the Budgets to this Government, even in spite of that. Therefore, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we understand that that entity that you are proposing to create is too much because all these instruments, all these services, are already being provided effectively. Probably not everything we would like to be effective, but in a very effective, very efficient, very direct and very personalized way. And I also understand that by amending that agreement with the General Council of the Judiciary and with Eudel it will be substantially improved. Therefore, in the end, we oppose the proposal brought by Bildu, but, without a doubt, we love that you praise the good management that you are doing autonomous presidents of the size of Mr García-Page and Mr Lambán. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u50	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. There's plenty of things going on between you guys who've been talking to me before. As Mr. Don Calogero has said, our team doesn't need to see each other for that mediating office which proposes to be made in the original proposition of Podemos. He gives a lot of data in the way he proposes it or in the justification of it. It is true that here, too, the man here has mentioned; at least, if we measure it in so many numbers, the question of the housing is, above all, increased in number, by the interruption of the contract of rents. We always say, or at least, that the problem is actually in rent recently, and, well, it can take a good deal of people to the desert places, but I can't share it either, or other things that she says to herself: "Miles y milles de familyes en situción de ries de riesnual en Euskadi." Well, I know that a lot of people in our society have not, perhaps, properly arranged the problem or the need of the housing, but I don't think I can say things like that when it's not made a definite proposal, to give a solution, at least, I don't share such things. I didn't see justified in the need of the office, especially because I didn't hear any of the services you've been doing here on behalf of the firm, or how you'd get better or better by that office. It has been well explained in what respect the attention of the people now present to be given to those who are present, and it is certain that amongst the several institutions we have always said that our organizations have been separated, and also that our jurisdictions are given according to these jurisdictions. We believe that the housing service is a service which enters into the social police, which requires the union, as well as the social services of the townships, and several services are provided with this co-ordination. The housing law also takes a lot of precautions. This is where we talked about his slow development. We've asked several times to develop the law, but I think it's clear that the will of Christmas, used by the Housing Act as instruments, has been held up in the budgets to make good policies, and it's accepted and unaccompanied in the premunciations that the government's will is really on the subject of the housing, the lease, because it's a bet for the people who need a housing from public institutions. Then, I'm telling you, I don't quite understand why this office needs it. Later on, Madam Olivet has introduced her as well as that of the only institution. At least I don't see anything to do with this institution. I think that the origin of this organization would be much more complex, and I believe that we have often talked about it, and that we ought to talk about other things if we really began to discuss it. I think it's a service. It's a good service. Then, too, as a pattern or justification for the origin of this office, so has Mr. EGAINAtuez mentioned the 'Braboi Aragon' and the Hathalacha'. I would also ask the Representative of Podemos, whence these offices begin, when they were produced, what they had before, what they had in their own affairs, and what they had in them; and let us really look at what we have hitherto done, and compare it with all that they have hitherto done. I think the answer is given from the Basque Institutions. They have been mentioned: We have a neighbour, a free public service that provides information from the HUD and the owners, who want to buy a house, those who want to sell it, those who want to hire it, those who want to be tenants, those who want to be tenants. We have a consumer; it's true that it's from another department, which wasn't in the department now, but it was in another department, but that doesn't mean that the service doesn't work. I don't think it's right to say that they're located in different departments and that's why services don't work. Besides, it is also mentioned, that in justification people are confounded, and that instead of serving them they are injured by the people, I cannot possibly share it with you. Then service to help the overridden families. He has also mentioned that Mr. Audeza, who was a pioneer, was also a mediakal service, and I believe he has also produced his results, and after that, even if necessary, a house is given directly to all those families or people who have lost their dwellings. We hold our own correction, because we believe that the services which are now given are always good, i.e. There's coordination, but we're also asking you to improve coordinate in our corrections. We demand, too, or propose an integral plan in all these cases to have a better answer. We think it's very valuable, even a contract signed in Eudel, Judicial Power, and Christmas, because we think it's very necessary to be careful where the problem is then, and this agreement is signed and re-entered, as we've asked several times from this parliament. And then when we speak of Jurisdictions, we always say we do what we can, according to our Jurisdictions; but we cannot deny that the Spanish Government has a thing to say, and what to do in order to improve these circumstances; and therefore in our correction we require the Transposition of the 2014-17 directive of Europe, because it is not yet complete. It is true that there have been so many disclosures established in our legislation, but not as a whole, which still inspires the citizen with a course of security, and we believe that it is time to do so properly. And again, as we have often alluded to, the change of the law of the revenues of the United States. It has been stated that an attempt occurred at Congress in Madrid at the very beginning of this year. The agreement was not possible, and we all have its representatives in the Congress of Madrid, and if our object is really to help all the citizens, to push and accept the necessary measures in their positions as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. We are again debating and discussing the issue of evictions, which, of course, is good to put on the table, it is good to put the data, basically, as Mrs Otamendi said, because of the situation of vulnerability in which citizens are faced with a situation like this. And it's good to give the data. At the end of last year 2018 we were aware of the statistics on releases that were published by the General Council of the Judiciary, which pointed out that during 2018 they were caused more by the impossibility of facing the rent than by not facing the mortgage. Just like 10 years ago 80% of the launches had precisely that origin, the impossibility of paying the mortgage, now the situation has turned around and the fundamental reason is not being able to cope with the rents. Thus, in the last quarter of last year, in Euskadi, one in four evictions that took place was due to the non-payment of the rent quota by the tenants. A total of 231 court decisions ending in launches were accounted for, and of those 231 only 38 corresponded to mortgage executions, i.e. 16,5 % of the total, and 74 % was due precisely to the non-payment of rent, which meant an increase from the same period of the previous year of 6,2 %, while those resulting from the lack of power or unwillingness to pay the mortgage fell by 5 %. Why do I give this data? Because, of course, consideration must be given to the origin of such launches, whether they are mortgages or leases, in order to be able to make any changes that might be relevant. It is true that we have high figures, that any launch and the situation of vulnerability it produces for those who live it is unique, but it is also true that in other communities such as Catalonia the number of evictions multiplied by 10 the figures of Euskadi. In any case, it is also true that some of the figures given in the justification must be nuanced. Because there are talk of 1,105 payment claims decrees; those decrees are that, in many cases payment claims that do not involve the launch. Not so long as there is a decree..., that is issued just after the court claim is filed, and, obviously, the first thing that is done is to claim the owner's rent payment. Claims that must, of course, be made. Because the solution..., said Mr Andueza, it is true that there are times when you don't pay the rent because you can't, because there is an economic impossibility, and times when you don't pay the rent because you don't want to. And, of course, the solution cannot be that it is not claimed, because, if someone who is not paid the rent, a landlord, is given the impossibility or is not given that legal certainty in the claim, then what will be the consequence? Let him back down, let there be no rent. Let the offer of housing be withdrawn. And if there is not enough offer, what is the consequence? An increase in prices. And this does not mean – in case Mr Martínez is then tempted to tell me – that no measures must be taken to prevent fraud, that one cannot disguise a seasonal rent as it is not, that no bail can be requested for more than a month, that in that case that clause would be null and void... We believe that all this has to be controlled, but we also believe that in order to control all these issues there are already instruments. The solution must come, in our view, because, if the rent is not paid for lack of economic means, the public authorities act to give the possibility of that rent being paid or, in any case, to give a housing solution to that person or family. A solution on which we share that is not easy. But – and I will not be the one to do the most to the government – it must also be said that the Basque institutions, that the government is working to give those solutions. That everything's better? Obviously, as has been said here, but we do not believe that a statement that is made precisely in justification, that there has been a relaxation in relation to the problem of embargoes, we do not believe that this corresponds to reality. As Mr Andueza said, we already had a free and optional public mediation service in Euskadi, which is made up of expert professionals from the world of law and the economy, who mediated among financial institutions in cases of family over-indebtedness and non-payment of regular housing quotas, in order to ensure that the best possible conditions for the settlement of the debt of those affected were met. This mediation service was the central focus of this family over-indebtedness support service launched by the Government. As has also been said here, in 2013 an agreement was signed between the General Council of the Judiciary and Eudel establishing a protocol of action both in the mortgage execution procedures and in the eviction procedures for failure to pay the rent, in both cases, of habitual housing. And, precisely, from the moment you are aware of that resolution, the whole procedure is put in place to be able to help that person, because precisely what was intended by that convention is to activate an early warning to deal with situations of special vulnerability in procedures that could lead to eviction. That is to say, what Mrs Otamendi said: from the point of view of this situation of vulnerability, let all resources be put in place to give that solution. It is true that this agreement is already a few years old, but it is also true, as we have been told here, that it will soon be signed again. As stated in the initiative and has been repeated here, we also have Kontsumobide, who intervenes in mediation and arbitration procedures, we have Bizilagun, we have agreements with the bar associations. It is therefore true that at the moment there are different institutional orders, different departments responsible for information and action on housing, and it is necessary – and I can agree with this – that coordination of all of them and joint action is essential, but for such coordination it is necessary to create one more agency? Really? I do not see that the solution is to create that body and that that will solve the issue. I think otherwise, it can complicate it more. Here we have spoken – and have already been told – about other autonomous communities in which it has been created, but it is created because there was nothing before; then, it is created what was created here a long time ago. Because, if this organism is created, then will other organisms disappear? Will other bodies that are currently in operation be removed from their powers? Because you are calling for the creation of a unified service, but then, on a straight line, you say that the Department of Housing is coordinating all available services and resources; then, at point two, they give a number of functions. Those functions, what are they? The ones that would have that brokerage office? Or are these the functions that the Department of Housing has to coordinate? So, what would be the functions of that unified service? We haven't just seen them. As Mr Andueza has said, we are little friends of new chiringuitos, especially if these new chiringuitos, as it is in this case, do not come to contribute anything but, in our opinion, quite the contrary, because the only thing that comes to generate is duplicity. And as much as you have said that this new service is going to be cheap, we, what we believe is that it is going to detract resources from what they really have to be directed at and it is precisely to satisfy that need for housing to those who, by their own means, cannot satisfy it, and that is the main objective, in our view, of the public authorities. We have said this on many occasions, that satisfaction with the provision of rented housing must be the responsibility of public institutions, either through construction or through the acquisition of housing through the various instruments and programmes with which the Housing Department has access, but, of course, what cannot be done is to pretend to transfer this obligation to private owners and, for example, we have said it on other occasions, I take the opportunity to reiterate it, is what the Housing Act sometimes seeks through the canon, through expropriation, forced rent, etc. The increase in this supply of rented public housing, which would bring with it, is a fall in prices and, therefore, a decrease in litigation. That is why we are not going to vote in favour of the initiative, because you have proposed, Mr Martínez, this mediation service as if it were the panacea for the solution of all housing problems, and we believe – that is why we had not tabled an amendment, because we were going to vote instead of at the outset – that the creation of a new body is not the solution, that there are already sufficient instruments in Euskadi, that what it is about to coordinate these instruments, and that the institutions that have the opportunity to implement these instruments act and improve, where appropriate, that action. But this organism is not necessary. The Basque Government, which is responsible for housing, can and must do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u54	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answers, Martíni was held together by the lawmate of the Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u55	I thought I was in the Basque Parliament and not on a plate, but we are on a plate, above all, for the last two speeches, that of Mr Andueza and that of Mrs Llanos. I have made a non-law proposal; I am a parliamentarian elected by Álava, who makes a non-law proposal based on the Rules of the House, in which he asks to create a public body, which, obviously, like all public bodies, would have its regulations based on the law, in this case, on the Housing Act in resolutions of the Parliament, in orders and decrees, and would have officials or labour personnel. You two have called that chiringuito. Chiringuitos are foundations that are made ad hoc, as was done in the Community of Madrid, to have an ultra leader on salary. Chiringuitos are associations that in this country, Basque Country, are created, associations close to the parties of power in different areas, that receive direct subsidies without going through public competition. Those are chiringuitos – and I'm not messing with long tradition associations, let's be clear – those are chiringuitos, I say. If we're going to play that cheap disqualification, well, we play that cheap disqualification, but those are chiringuitos. This is a proposal, better or worse – I am not going to get involved there. And Mrs. Llanos is right when... I didn't propose it as the magic solution, I proposed it as one more, a solution that could help, and there, in those terms we will discuss. But the chiringuito thing, therefore, sincerely, I do not tolerate it; chiringuitos are other things, they are other things that we know a lot about in this country. But a regulated public body with public control, that's not a chiringuite. And then, about..., I don't know, I think there's a tic or an alert or I don't know..., something that has installed certain political diligence in this country, and every time we talk about rights, it comes up with fraud. But in this initiative no one is denying that there are certain specific people who can do things wrong, even though I may be a good guy and think that people, in general, in their first home in 99.99% of cases want to pay, want to pay the rent. I guess I'm wrong, huh?, that with this, as in everything, I'm not going to be right, but precisely, if we read point two – to reassure that alert of certain political leaders, that if we talk about social rights, about citizenship rights: "Fraude". You already know what is the figure, for example, of fraud in the GIR, less than 1%; it is worth speaking about these speeches–, in point two of the GNP and the transaction we are talking about specialized and personalized legal and technical advice regarding the possible loss of difficulty in paying the economic obligations linked to habitual housing, and in particular situations of over-indebtedness, restructuring of mortgage debt, default or delay in paying mortgage fees to rent rents. Who has said that this initiative is going to pretend to perpetuate one thing or the other? No, we're talking mediation. And what the initiative seeks, for better or for worse – you do not agree on this part; for, well, it is legitimate, that I will not deny, the rest of the arguments, in my opinion, yes –, what it is trying to do is to unify, unify the service, that Mr Arriola's Housing Department, at least until the next elections, leads this – let's say that word of 'leadership' again – and unify and coordinate this, and that there are no situations of uncoordinatedness, that happen. Perhaps it is not the solution, but neither have they raised any more than remain the same. That is the debate we are putting forward, to follow the same or innovative solutions. About the convention, we agree. If we sign it in the monograph! There is no need to re-adopt it, so we are also going to abstain, because it is to reiterate what we have already adopted. Y, señora Husshal, they're asking Eucharin for 84,000 people, representing the need of a first flat. That's the problem. We've drawn that number of thousands of people out of there, 84,000. And I think about the motel already... A lot of things that we introduced and tested in the Monographics are in February, and many things were for November, many other things for January, and they have not been introduced at the moment. I, if he continues, will ask him about him in the next few days. But I say it again. It was an idea. It was a proposition. It's not denied, it's not a negative idea, it's all we have to say is that we have some things. I don't deny that nothing is done, but what I said is that the government and the decoordination are slow. I did not say at all that the Government does nothing, it becomes clear, and I think this is a very useful method of co-ordination. But what I wanted to say: we must separate a thing, this proposition is one thing, and it is another thing that surprised me. I think these things ought to be outside this pleno. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u56	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zaton. The Representative EH, the Mount, must not speak. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u57	Thank you, ma'am. Well, I think our arguments will have sufficed when there has been some parliamentary group that has refused to use their turn of reply. Mr. Martinez, Mr. Martínez, you've been talking about platters. We like the dishes. Ask Mr. Iglesias for the dishes, who knows for a while. He told us about chiringuitos. Ask Mr Madrazo, who knows even more about chiringuitos than Mr Iglesias de platos. You were talking about unifying. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing, I think there are few protocols that are faster and more effective than the one we have right now, with a single window, the one we have in almost every town hall in Euskadi. Straighter and faster than that there isn't. You told me in your first speech that when the Socialist Party makes us choose between people and market we choose market. Look, it's curious, isn't it? Finally, I think you will know very well that last January 22nd a proposal, a real decree of urgent measures in the area of housing and rent, and your vote, together with those you say that you reject so much social rights (the People's Party in this case and Citizens), was debated in the Congress of Deputies. Your vote to the contrary prevented, among other things, that the government led by Pedro Sánchez could implement a series of measures. And with his no, with Podemos's no, he said no to the extension of the mandatory extension of the lease to five years instead of the current three and the tacit extension of the lease, which rises from one to three years. You said no to limiting additional guarantees to a maximum of two monthly instalments. You said that it is not for the lessor to be responsible for the costs of real estate management and the formalization of the contract, provided that it is a legal person, except for those expenses incurred on the direct initiative of the lessee. You said that you did not facilitate the adoption of agreements between the owner and the tenant for the renovation or improvement of the house in the course of the same contract, without waiting, as until now, for it to end. You said not to have to necessarily impact the IBI on the tenant of the social rent. You said no to the changes to the Civil Prosecution Act contained in the Royal Decree to paralyze evictions until a housing alternative is found in cases affecting vulnerable individuals or families. You said that no to the amendment of the horizontal property law provided for in the royal decree to allow, by a qualified majority of three-fifths, the communities of neighbours to limit or condition the tourist activity in their buildings, as well as that such apartments must contribute more to the Community's expenses, although with a limit of 20%. You said that you did not allow surplus municipalities to promote your public housing stock and to be able to set up a bonus of up to 95% in the IBI's quota for rented housing at a limited price, at a limited price. And you said that not to stimulate the realization of works of adaptation or improvement of accessibility, amending the Law on Horizontal Property to increase within three years to 10% the reserve fund of the communities of owners, and to establish the possibility of the realization of works on accessibility. And we're the ones who say no to people? Are we the ones who turn our backs on people and those most vulnerable families? Well, yes! Well, we're good! Anyway, look, I'm really telling you that I've never been a believer, at first I'm not a believer. But taking an analysis of the amendments that you submitted to the budget that the Government subsequently rejected because it did not have the necessary support, I found an amendment of yours aimed at creating a unified service of orientation and comprehensive care in the field of housing emergency. I mean, what you guys brought here. And it happens that you, for the creation of a unified service that you say is Merke-Merke, allocated 180,000 euros. Do you think something can be done with 180,000 euros? Do you believe that with the conditions that you are proposing together with these gentlemen in the Civil Service Act gives much for 180,000 euros? Well, what do you want me to say? If you are able, with that amount of money, to set in motion a service like this, a unified office and, moreover, that the officials who work in it have decent working conditions, if you succeed, believe me that I will begin to believe in miracles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u58	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Zaleski doesn't have to say a word. And Euscal Group Singulary's representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Briefly, but I cannot resist, because, although it is true that Mr Martínez – and then I will refer to him – has tried us – although then in his second speech he said that he did not – to show as a panacea of solution of housing problems that new organism, also Mr Andueza has tried through psychological investment to see all that you had said that not by not validating that decree that has not gone as far as Mr Ábalos, but also seemed to be the solution to the housing problem in Spain. Because they presented it fundamentally as a measure that was going to revolutionize solutions to housing, that was going to solve the urgent problems of social and protected housing... Now, that is, in that decree, most of the initiatives that were proposed affected the free market, the free market. They were a set of isolated, loose measures, which provided solutions to some problems, but which did not go to the heart of the issue...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u61	...which was the shortage of supply in all segments and the lack of legal certainty. Why was that decree rejected, at least by our group? Well, because in the month in which the decree came into effect, the landlords' signatures were really paralyzed, in view of whether it was clear and whether the applicable regulations were clear, because when people don't know what to stick to, the market recedes. And it is that you solve everything with interventionist measures, through penalizing measures, and we have told you on many occasions: you get better results by encouraging rather than punishing. To increase the supply, there are two basic options: either more new housing is made or the empty is tried to be placed on the market. Of course, with the decree you brought to the Congress of Deputies, it was not possible to put housing on the market, at all, at all. And, of course, the amendment of the Urban Leases Act, to which it has to be addressed, is not to what you were trying to direct, but to achieve legal certainty. Legal certainty for tenants, yes. But legal certainty also for the owners, so that they put houses on the market. And you spoke, Mr. Martinez, of goodism. Look, I'm gonna tell you two questions. One, in the courts, people who don't pay because they don't want urban leases, like this, like this. But I will not take that into account, nor have I taken it into account in arbitrating the solution that we have to give to people who need housing. Why? I have told you on many occasions: because it is true that it is a serious problem and that the figures are there. But with a family, one or two having a problem not having a home, the public authorities must act. I completely ignore that, whether it is not a question of being a goodist or not, it is a question of reality being there and that exists. And you were telling me I was on a set. I don't know why I was saying that. I, look, I've always said it about chiringuitos, and I always call it. Now, what's not worth, what's not worth, Mr. Martínez, and Mr. Andueza told him – I had the same thing; what happens is that, as he spoke before me... – Mr. Madrazo, of chiringuitos knew a long time. And what is not worth it is that when one proposes an organism is an organism with good will – I told you before –, solution and panacea of all the ills of housing, and when those same organisms propose them a government of another color, then it is a chiringuito. No, look, if it's a little chiringuit, it's for the rest of us and for the rest of us. And this – I will not say the word again if it bothers you – is to allocate funds to an unnecessary body – in our opinion. Is coordination necessary? Yeah. Is it necessary to bring all the institutions working on housing together? Yeah. Is it necessary to draw funds from housing policy to create a new body – even the word you don't like –? No, not at all, and that is why we are going to vote against the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u62	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u63	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. We'll next vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of the Basques as a full-signed correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 45; the contrary,0; white, 0; Abstations, 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u64	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Mution, the members of Laura Garrido Knörre, a member of the Popula team, presented to the changing policy for the euscal families. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garrido has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen. Well, the Group of the European People's Party brings back to the plenary of this Basque Parliament a subject, of course, crucial to us, and we believe that it is also crucial for the vast majority of Basque citizens, such as the family issue and the family policies that are being implemented by the Basque Government. We must once again show our disappointment, even to point out that we believe – and I say this honestly, and I will try to argue this throughout this intervention – that in this particular matter the Basque Government is clearly taking advantage of all Basque citizens. And why do I say this and why does the People's Party say what I just said? This is the fourth question raised by this group during this parliamentary term, which we have just done two years. The fourth question and in this case asking, asking directly to the councilwoman – that I regret that at least at the moment she is not in this debate, I do not know if she will be following him in any office – whether she intended to turn family policies around, whether the Basque Government intended to turn family policies around and bet once and for all on policies, for measures that are really effective and that would benefit Basque families. Of course, the Councilwoman's answer, we have to say and regret that it was a new exercise of escapism and that, of course, it was clearly short of the commitments that this Government had also made in its programme of government and also of the commitments made to the People's Party over the course of two years. That is why we want to make it clear that Basque families are not on the political agenda of this Government and, therefore, family policy is not a priority for this Government. We're trying to make it clear today that family politics are not a priority for the government, the Euskozoa, considering the government hasn't fulfilled its commitments, and the facts I'm going to give will be revealed to me. First, we have seen a delay in the adoption of the instruments that constitute the necessary framework for implementing measures to support families. It is that the strategy of support to families, the last legislature, in the general policy plenary of 2015, the lehendakari told us that it would arrive soon. We're talking about the last legislature, in 2015. Well, then, the strategy was approved two and a half years late. We have to say clearly that the investments committed by the Basque Government itself have also been breached, and we all remember that announcement..., because the Basque Government is very used to making announcements that occupy pages of newspapers, pages of teleberris, but that then remain in nothing, as was the announcement of a multiannual investment of 200 million euros, that is, in the pre-election campaign, because it was in the spring of 2016, announcing a multiannual investment, ladies and gentlemen, of 200 million euros, is supposed to be 50 million euros more each year, each budget year, which, of course, in this House and in the budgets that have been presented have not been seen. But the Fourth Inter-Agency Family Support Plan also arrived late, ladies and gentlemen. It is that the third one ended in 2015 and this one, the fourth, was approved last summer, on July 19, 2018. That is, all the necessary instruments because they constitute the framework for implementing real and necessary family policies have been delayed by the inaction and passiveness of this Government. And we want to say it loud and clear. He said that there were delays in the implementation of specific aid measures by the Basque Government. This government, much given the announcements that are then left in nothing and that occupy newspaper pages and that occupy headlines and that are also announced when the opposition proposes concrete initiatives here – as another announcement to which I will then refer – but this government announces and proposes as one of its star measures in family policy that would increase the help of the second son from two to three years this legislature. Well, this aid has also been delayed by the inaction of this government to approve the corresponding decree, which is approved last summer, that is, in 2018. The Basque families, in relation to this aid, passed it out in 2017. But there is more to be said: it is that this aid that is launched in 2018 – with retroactive effects because it was already to fall to the government the face of shame – it is that this aid was foreseen in the III Family Plan for 2014, it is that we are absolutely late in relation to the measures that this government committed itself to already implement in the III Family Plan. I am talking about an aid that has arrived in 2018, which should have been a reality for Basque families in 2014. But I'm going with the star measure, ladies and gentlemen. The superstar measure of this government for this legislature is announced – occasionally too – in the full family monographic and demographic challenge that we had in this Parliament. In this rostrum, the counselor announces – specifically, on March 21 – that it will be arbitrated, and we believe that it is good news and a good measure. That is why, in the amendments we tabled to the budgets, we also proposed to increase this amount, as we have always done with all the items that have been allocated to support families. We have always asked for its increase and always, the Basque Government – as is seen in the data that I am going to give later on in relation to budget implementation – has not been able to implement the amounts that it had entered into the Budgets, again because of its inability and lack of real commitment to family policy. I was talking about the star measure: a surplus, an economic benefit for paternity surpluses for 12 weeks in the 12 months after birth, which did not coincide with the period of maternity leave and with an amount equivalent to 100 % of the contribution base. This measure is announced by the board member on March 21, 2018, without any limit, because it is announced as such, as I have just pointed out – and can be seen in the Journal of Sessions of the full monograph held that day – without any limit. The appearance of Budgets this year, 2019, comes, and tells us, on questions from this group, that at best the decree would be adopted in the autumn of the 19th, that it would not be for the first children but from the second child and that it would not have retroactive effects. And it stayed the same. Do not tell me, gentlemen, that this Government does not clearly suffer from a lack of commitment and credibility in relation to the implementation of the measures it announces itself. This measure is announced, as I said, on March 21, 2018 and will not be launched, at best, until, as I said, this year, in autumn. Not to mention the breach of commitments made with the People's Party to implement budget lines. It is that this government has money, it is that, if we go to the execution of the 2017 budgets, closed, of the 63 million of all the aids for births, by conciliation, are executed 48 million euros, ladies and gentlemen. It is just that I do not know how this government does not feel ashamed when it talks about family policies and when here it comes to making announcements after announcements that, as we see, arrive late and bad, and from which the Basque citizens, of course, cannot benefit. But then the adviser tells us in the answer to the question that we say to her that there are other countries, such as France, which have long been putting up the birth aid piles and are now having the results. But how can one be looking in the mirror of countries in Europe that long ago considered this issue a priority and put it on the political agenda as one of the main tasks to be developed by the competent administration? This Government says that other countries have done their duty, when this Government has had tools, had the money and had been unable to take concrete measures to favour Basque families. It's just that we have a structural birth problem. It is that all the surveys and studies carried out conclude the same thing, that families do not have the children they want, that families have difficulties in independence, young people have difficulties in independence, and this Government, which has absolutely crossed its arms. That is why we have tabled this motion. I want to say that we stress again, seeing that the amounts that are budgeted can be implemented and that, moreover, the People's Party, with a real and sincere commitment to family policies, in successive amendments increases them year after year – we see those commitments, the Basque Government fails them – and we have called for an increase in the amounts and years of these aid. I am referring to birth and conciliation aid. But in relation to the superstar measure announced on March 21, 2018 in this rostrum by the councillor, whose decree will not be approved, at best, until 2019, will not have retroactive effects and will cover only from the second son, as at first the announcement was general, we want the compromise announced here by the councillor, in this rostrum itself. And what we're asking is for this help to be retroactive and to be given from the first child. It's just that there's money, ladies and gentlemen. We see that this year the Basque Government is going to have EUR 600 million more, that, seeing the approaches that have been made in the budget extension bills, it is going to spend EUR 300 million, that it will have to be spent – I think very well – on salary increases, but it is that this Government, as we have seen, is going to spend EUR 15 million on raising the GIR and it is going to spend absolutely raquitically EUR 2 million on removing the 5% cut, that cut that comes from the Patxi López stage and that the Urkullu government has criticized so much since the last parliamentary term. Now it's going to take off. But can't a greater effort be made to invest, when there's money, in family policies, ladies and gentlemen? But can't the amounts be increased, but can't you start that surplus already from the first child and with retroactive effects? Where are the Basque families for this government? In addition, we also consider it important to increase all the aid, as I said, which has to do with conciliation, which also has to be boosted – and along the lines of the monographic debate that we had and of concrete proposals that the People's Party put on the table – all the measures that have to do with, if we are talking about the wage gap, that this councillor and this government are being filled with the word that the wage gap must be eliminated; for here they have a concrete proposal to eliminate the wage gap and to address the differences and inequalities that exist in the various areas as well. Aid to companies to encourage conciliation schemes, another measure; another measure. We have a website, Concilia, which is a tool that provides support in the field of reconciliation to companies. Companies tell us that it is a tool that does not serve them; let us put it into operation, that the Basque Government has the interest of providing a valuable tool and that it really sets it up as an effective tool and that it serves to advise companies on family matters. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that after two years of parliamentary life, this government's balance sheet on family policies is zero. I believe, as I said earlier, that families and family policies with concrete measures are not a priority for this Government: instruments that are the framework for implementing concrete measures that have arrived late; unfulfilled commitments, commitments that have materialized in concrete announcements; commitments that are late and insufficient. And this government for its inaction is unable to execute those amounts that have been budgeted to help Basque families. I think they have to make you look at it and I regret that the adviser is not in such an important debate and that she has not considered it that way because she is not present at the moment. With regard to the amendments that have been tabled, I have to say that they are absolutely insufficient for us. Mrs Guanche, with all due affection, I think you are leaving the debate. He talks to us about putting forward a public debate on the economic model and social organization. Any time, but I think we are talking about concrete proposals today. I believe that today it is a question of seeing again the passiveness of this government, of showing clearly that this government has done nothing about the family after two years, that I believe it is a reasonable and sufficient time. I believe that when you talk about multi-sectoral, integral and integrated measures being promoted, you have them here in this motion; they are concrete measures and we would have been willing to talk about other measures, if you had put them on the table. And of the other amendment that has been tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party, I have to say that it is clearly insufficient...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u66	Finishing up, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u67	It is that, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, it is that there is no ambition, it is absolutely continuous, and, of course, we cannot endorse a continuousist policy which, of course, we believe is suffering and has many deficits and which, of course, is not adequate, at all, to give an impetus to family policies in the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u68	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Sánchez, yours... Sorry, sorry, perdón, perdón, sorry. Passing to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u69	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning again. The title of the initiative we are discussing is related to turning policies in support of Basque families. From Elkarrekin We can work to make family support policies available to more families, to make them more comprehensive, to provide solutions to the diversity of family arrangements in the Basque society of 2019, and for this it is essential to put these policies from a holistic perspective. We believe that economic support must be broadened and strengthened, but we also believe that other measures and solutions must be promoted. Measures and solutions such as those proposed by us, for example, in our amendment or those proposed by us in this House's monographic debate. When we saw the title of the initiative we were quite curious; we came to think that they would have presented something really ambitious. However, once read – and, Mrs. Garrido, don't take it the wrong way – more of the same. On the one hand it seems that the People's Party through this initiative wants to draw the list of grievances and unfulfilled agreements by the Government with its group; legitimate, no doubt, but not transformative policies. On the other hand, it seems to be campaigning for more money to be given to families, which always sounds good, but without saying anything about the causes that cause families to have so much difficulty in reconciling. That is why, in our view, today's original motion does not present too many solutions and, of course, does not present a transformative look nor is it aimed at turning any policy around. The People's Group calls upon the Government in its motion to continue to promote a model of family support policies, which basically consists in providing financial support for families to seek their lives and resolve how well the bottom-up marathon of continuing work, career development, caring for dependent family members, caring for children, having a minimally satisfactory personal life and being happy, beautiful, grateful and not complaining. We, more and more, repeat that we defend economic support, but that they alone do not serve. We also advocate economic support for them when they are rights, not when they are gifts from a government or from a turnout pact. From Elkarrekin We believe that people have to have financial benefits that no one can play with. That's why we want all the financial benefits to be without cuts, all of them, because I say that some family will also be affected by the cuts in the GIR, but, well... In addition to this, we believe that family policies need to go further, and indeed we agree, Mrs Garrido, that the family policies of this Government should be turned around, but in our view it is essential that other debates be opened up and that we work towards other solutions. I take my hand with that offer to debate whenever I want, I hope we can have a chance to do so. We are putting on the table an amendment to open debates, to seek solutions and to stop proposing specific measures that make families increasingly dependent on government decisions, that reproduce gender roles, that do not change and that moreover, given the Budgets, they do not reach the people, the money is not spent. In our amendment we propose, yes, to increase, diversify and redesign these aids so that they reach more families, but also so that it is not only women who take care of them. I don't know if that's where you understand that this has nothing to do with families. It must be said, Mrs Garrido, that this initiative lacks – in our opinion at least – a gender perspective and demonstrates this too, little interest in the rights of women, who are the main jugglers and caregivers of family members. You propose today to reproduce the same policy we have with more money. To this day, Mrs Garrido and Mrs Artolazabal, if they do not know, nine out of 10 conciliation aid is requested by women; therefore, it is only women who are leaving the labour market. This contributes to the glass ceiling, also contributes to the sticky soil and helps to make the wage gap bigger. So, Mrs Garrido, if we increase the amount and do not review the design of these aids, thanks to them, between heterosexual couples we will have more and more women out of the labour market dedicated to care and losing opportunities to have full autonomy or at least to do what they want, and we will have more men acting as providers, away from family care, improving working conditions and accessing decision-making positions. Then we'll take our hands to our heads, see why there are no women in leadership positions. That's not what we want to keep. We understand that, if you want to change this situation, you will have to start paying more attention to women's rights, I insist, but do it for real. From Elkarrekin We can, in addition to more and better economic aid, that I do not deny it, we want the way in which we organize ourselves as a society to be transformed. We want to move towards a society in which people's lives are a priority, that lives be placed at the centre of a model of human and sustainable development, because the current model, the one that defends the Basque Nationalist Party, but also yours, Mrs Garrido, is invisiating the care and reinforcements that fall on families and, I insist, in particular on women, that are essential for all people to have decent lives. On the other hand, we are faced with the amendment by the groups supporting the Government, which does not include a single measure that is not already adopted or announced. I have to say that I agree with Mrs Garrido in all the criticism she has made of the repeated announcements of the same which then do not reach anywhere. In the search for solutions that are not short-term, paternalistic or electoral, we propose that a process be opened to study what would be necessary for a Basque care system, because that is also family policy. In the time that has touched us we have in our hands the opportunity and the challenge of giving care and the sustainability of life the place that belongs to them, recognizing them as a right, giving them an answer to the height would, yes, be a qualitative leap and unprecedented, and that is why this is the basis of our proposal and why we confront their proposal – forgive me the qualification – a bit shortsighted. We also take up concrete and clear agreements that have already been reached, for example, in the family monograph: the gratuity of the Haurreskolak, which has not been fulfilled; we also aim to work for parental leave equal and non-transferable and paid at 100% also in the private sphere; and we share, Mrs Garrido, that the allocation of financial aid takes account of the situation of families with special needs, of course. But we also propose that support services and reconciliation and co-responsibility policies be promoted that take into account the special needs that go beyond economic aid. Do you know how long it takes to solve the financial aid today? I'm asking. He answers it to me in the replica and then we keep talking. We understand that co-responsibility involves women and men. We understand that it also has to involve the State and private sector companies. That is why we include a point calling them to be part of this agreement. We want social reproduction and the sustainability of life to cease to be a bottom marathon with obstacles for families and a heavy burden only on our shoulders, those of women. We want families to stop assuming everything that public administrations are absent from; we want reconciliation to cease to be a private problem and become a public responsibility; we want the Basque Government, from the parliaments, from the municipalities, to create the necessary conditions for families to be spaces where to enhance dignified, full lives, projects, dreams, meetings, co-responsibility, protection. We want that care that is at the heart of this discourse to be also at the heart of public policy and economic interests – let us not forget that part. That is why we are going to exercise responsibility today, and in our vote we are going to abstain. We are going to abstain, but we are not going to give support to whitewash pre-election measures for anyone. No, no, Nor are we going to be the ones opposed to families having more economic support, but it is clear that our priority bet is the defence of comprehensive services, public services, quality services and for all citizens. Our bets are services that contribute to the defense of the rights of women, of children, of the right to care for everyone; services for a society that really puts lives in the center. We're trying to make it clear that the Podemos team gives the preference to all socially integrated and public services. Services which guarantee the rights of women, the rights of childhood, and the rights of preserving them all, and the services belonging to a society which lives in the centre. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Now Euska Sozialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u71	Thank you, President. We discussed on this agenda item on support policies for Basque families, but this initiative is very similar to earlier motions tabled by the PP, one on March 9 and November 2, 2017 and the last in the plenary on February 15, 2018. However, my group, the Basque Socialists, believe that this initiative once again repeats the last one presented, without taking account of the progress from then on. In addition, following the last motion tabled in February 2018, we discussed at the Monographic Plenary on Family on 21 March last year, where numerous resolutions were agreed that have subsequently been included in the Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children, and where we had the opportunity to discuss in depth the measures to be taken in support of families in our Basque Autonomous Community in a broader way within that plenary. Prior to the monograph, the Basque Strategy for Investment in Families and Children was already available in the last quarter of 2017. Already in the previous motion, of February 2018, we showed that the adoption of the final document was delayed because it was considered that it would be desirable for this strategy to be implemented with the greatest possible consensus, because the revenues of these strategies are achieved over the years and this requires a global strategy that does not change every little time, in order to achieve the desired results over time, thus allowing improvements in the birth rate and also giving importance, as I said, to participation within the third sector of employers, trade unions and other organizations. And we also express the importance that this strategy must go hand in hand with cultural and social change, and within the workplace as well, especially within companies. And during the last quarter of 2017, this participation was carried out and the final document was drawn up. The Basque Pact for Families and Children was signed on 18 January 2018, with the unanimous support of the three outlaws, Eudel and the Basque Family Council. And that whole process culminated in June 2018, with the IV Plan of Support for Families and Children, which is in force from 2018 to 2022, where the strategy and the pact were implemented in concrete measures, as well as taking into account resolutions adopted in the family monograph. The amendment to the Children's Birth Aid Decree was also approved last summer, which will be retroactive to January 2018. The measures and commitments undertaken and signed in the compromise amendment adopted in February 2018 and signed by the Basque Nationalist groups, the Socialist Group and the People's Party have been fulfilled. We cannot forget that Euskadi is the only autonomous community that is already going through the Fourth Plan, while in other autonomous communities it has not yet reached any, and that, moreover, in this Autonomous Community, the economic allocations for this type of social aid are the largest in the State. If 2018 was allocated in Budgets for conciliation aid and births 47 million euros, as Councilwoman Artolazabal said the other day, in 2018 we had allocated 69,5 million euros, and we had included, within the Budget of the year 2019, 79 million euros for these aids. Your political group, Mrs Garrido, has not supported these Budgets, but today it comes here to demand an increase in the appropriations made for 2019 for these aid. If the 2019 Budgets had been approved, we wouldn't have this problem, would we, Mrs Garrido? On the other hand, in your speech, on the day of the inquiry, Mrs Garrido, you asked for the increase in aid for the 2018 financial year to be applied, although they were warned from the beginning of the negotiation that there would not be enough demand for it. However, they did not heed it, and then, when he saw that it had indeed been so, he came the day of the inquiry, blamed the Government and said that they could have changed it or changed it. Well, admit that you didn't put it right. But we also see that the Group of the European People's Party once again puts forward the debate focused on assistanceism fundamentally; however, we consider, unlike you, that our goal must be universality and have a comprehensive strategy. That is why we are not going to support his original initiative, and we are going to support in this plenary the amendment to the whole signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, because it proposes measures which, taking advantage of what we were discussing again today on the family, can serve to advance universality and better contribute to that cultural change to which I referred earlier. It includes measures such as the Basque Parliament urging the Government, within the time limit of the Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children, to develop measures to reorient current aid to workers in situations of overwork and to workers in situations of shorter working hours, in order to ensure the economic coverage of paternity or childcare surpluses in the case of families in special need, amending the Decree of 29 June 2010 on aid for the reconciliation of family and working life, in order to introduce gradually an economic benefit for the coverage of allowances for the non-pregnant parent for a period of 12 months, in the 12 months following birth and in a period other than maternity leave, with aid equivalent to 100 % of the contribution base. Gradual improvements also in the periodic financial benefits per dependent child, proposing an amendment to the decree of 12 March 2015, which aims to extend the assistance of second daughters and children in a third year, to extend the concept of son or daughter to include those over the age of 18 and under the age of 25 who live in the family home and are financially dependent on their parents, to change the date for the start of the calculation of the time limit for the submission of initial applications in the case of adoption and guardianship, and to consider the annuality of the adoption, among other measures. It also includes promoting the development of pilot projects and plans for the reconciliation of working, family and personal life in enterprises by, for example, actions such as piloting advice to enterprises for the implementation of reconciliation plans, establishing a specific subsidy line for the financing of such reconciliation plans in enterprises and also the creation of a public technical advisory service for the implementation of conciliation measures, carrying out awareness-raising campaigns and promotion of such reconciliation measures with a form of shared benefit, and boosting this 'Concilia' website to set it up as an effective tool for supporting and accompanying the reconciliation of enterprises. Lastly, it encouraged the establishment of an inter-agency working group within the framework of the Tax Coordination Body to analyse the possibilities for integrated management of child benefits and tax deductions by descendants. We cannot just make policies that have been shown not to work alone, short-lived, but we must move towards the European model with measures that help change trends, such as the measures we have proposed in our amendment to the whole of the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, and I therefore ask you to vote in favour of our amendment to the whole. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u72	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u73	Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good noon. "Elections are coming, motions are coming." That was my first thought when I received the parliamentary initiative that we will discuss and resolve today. And welcome are the motions and, if necessary, until the elections, because there are some that we continue to believe together in parliamentary activity as a backbone of political life. The problem lies in how these motions, these parliamentary initiatives, are focused. And allow me, Mrs Garrido, to tell you that, in my humble opinion, you have raised this motion in a partial, biased way, taking from the family plan those points related to the subsidy lines as if they were yours and through the usual speech you want to link us to the issue of retroactivity, in the line marked by some important agent of the sector from which you are usually erected as a political ram and thus want to give the impression that you lead what leads, that is, family policies. And it does not lead because with this partial vision focused solely on money, increasing economic amounts, only economic vision, only interests can be led, but not a real policy intended to face in a cross-cutting and absolutely central way a challenge of this magnitude. So we finally want to cover so many issues – because so many issues have room in this area – that the initiative, the respective amendments and even the compromise proposals end up looking more like an electoral program or the tables of Moses and we end up decentralizing the issue. We, on our part, introduced a correction in order to give an answer to the themes which appeared in the original initiative, and we tried to make it clear that every measure of action, every prospect, every action, and all the families that are in force, were elected by the Union. It is necessary to take effect on the plan, and to restore it to the workers in the state of work, and to improve in a gradual degree the present helps, or economic preparations which are given for the children, by changing the 30/2015 Decret which regulates it, and always changing it for some established purposes. Because money is needed, because, in order to accomplish these and others, the mentality of society, always settled in some definite purpose and direction, and not only in your initiative, Mrs Garrido, whom you repeat over and over: "Incrementar las ayudas economicas, incremenentian las planeanas de las ayudas economicas, establecer una cujonómica, impuls las líneas subvencioles," &c. That's all we have to do, but we're not going to change anything with it, and we're not going to face anything. And we were also required to encourage the development of pilots, as well as the plans for working, family, and personal association, in order, as an example, to make certain actions start. And finally, as far as the economic area is concerned, we proposed in our correction the origin of a band of organizations in the territory of the Cerg's Organ for coordination in order to examine the preparations for the children of his office, and the chances of managing the prosecutions in the integrated way, in order that it may be a really coordinated popular policy, respecting our internal organisation. Horrain gure position aurkeztu zen ekimenaren inguruan. Gero, beste zuzenketan (Elkarrekin Podemosenean, allegia) gauza askotan ados egon gaitezke, but there is a very curious thing going on with you, Mrs Guanche – and I assure you that I am not the only one – and it is that when I read the tenor of the texts that you write, it always seems to me that there are chances of reaching an agreement, but at the end it always happens that from what I understood to what it seems that you wanted to say half some insurmountable abyss until now. And in that regard, look, I am absolutely in agreement with what you say in your second point, when you call for the promotion of multisectoral, comprehensive and integrated policies to support all families so that they have opportunities to develop their life and family projects fully, with the difference that I believe is being done and is being materialized in this IV Family Support Plan, on which we could discuss everything that needs to be discussed. As it points out in its fourth point, when it says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to increase, diversify, incorporate the gender perspective in the types of economic support for families with dependent children, in order to reach the full range of family arrangements and not reproduce stereotypes, exclusion or discrimination on the basis of gender or other relations". Or also with points 8 and 9 of your amendment, which for reasons of not boring the auditorium I will not repeat. In any case, with regard to the Basque care system that you proposed, look, our opinion is not contrary to that possibility, but we also do not want to create systems by system, and in that sense I believe that in order to make visible the care and efforts that fall on families and, in particular, on women, as you say at the end of the first point of your amendment, we should start by taking care of caregivers in this case, by undertaking a strategy of caregivers, starting with a shared study, with a powerful diagnosis where the need for this system can be assessed. Because, how does a system arise if there is no strategy, no diagnosis, no reflection? Since you were talking about promoting a study, if at the base you have to be – and I think we agree with that – the person, you will have to start with the diagnosis and study shared around a strategy of caregivers to get – if you have to get there and not out of obligation – to that Basque care system to which you referred. And although I was referring to that when in the compromise proposal I suggested this possibility to you, you felt that you removed added value from your original amendment and I believe that this obscured your not excessive desire to reach an agreement. By the way, speaking of added value, it does not seem to be very helpful to propose, as you do at your fifth point, free access to the Haurreskolak Consortium for families with incomes below 18,000 euros. That, if I remember correctly, is announced and committed by the Education Advisor since November or December of last year. So, and to finish, I don't know what to get out of this day, but it's a pity, I think, not to take advantage of such choices in a really deeper and efficient manner, that is to say, not to take advantage of the opportunity to raise the level of discussion and reflection. Perhaps we ought to talk a little more to the agreement-date. That's where I come from, Mrs Garrido. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u74	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning again. Again, in the legislature of Disciplining and sharing political responsibilities. They have long been acquainted with the patches in the system, to encourage the measures of cooperation and the equal parentalities which the family foresees in the system to aid them. Many of these patches are brought up in the report of the Artabanus in 2014, in this family police evaluation, or even in the diagnosis which is held in the last resort to protect the Basque family and the childhood. The importance and the power of the subject is, indeed, a great one, and this is why we in our time had the monographic discussion of demography and family police. I think you all remember because it's mentioned. We had a chance to discuss a great deal about many of the nicest family affairs, and we discussed exactly these groups of policies, which have enabled us to excite a equal uniformity and parenthood. But today I dare say it is not so much a discussion about the responsibilities and the responsibilities that the government's activity is a discussion, or, as far as I understand, the difference between what Mrs Garrido has been trying to bring about is what Mrs. We must say that we agree with many of the things Mrs Garrido has set up here, though in a great degree, which is known to belong to family police, each of which is in antagonical position. But, as far as the activity of the Government is concerned, there are many of the criticisms it has here made, and many of the concerns it has made here are also ours. I think that's a question of doubt. In a great degree, it is the government's trade, and not so much, in particular, those politics. Although we meet at places surrounding the family police, we agree in this. The Family, and Childhood, Covenant in the mean Testament, proposes, or Plans a change of direction, of paradigmmy. All this was defined as a popular challenge by the President Urukullu in this introduction of the treaty. Many of the Banners were kept up in their own time, and were followed by it, as well as by that of Family and Childhood. What is called the plan, family, and a plan of investing in childhood. And he came, curiously, without much change of paradigm. The culture, preparations, and companions continue in the same line, without any profound change. You get the paradigma of social investment that you support the government, and the government itself, but the budget bill maintained the restrictions of 5% of 5 percent ratios around the family police at that moment you had that pact on your table and that paradigm. The report about the projects of the ancients made a remark about this lack of paradigmation, and mentioned that if all these precautions were not changed, they might continue to be perverses, and that is also mentioned. And if that were little, there's also a question of permission from 16 weeks of parenthood and it's very striking. This measure, which we made here in March, was made as a star in this plino monographic, which opened the New Telecer, took up great headlines, and then it is certain that it has been a measure that has gone to prevent it, not because of the importance of measure, nor for the sake of that measure, nor for the sake of that which it demands, nor for the sake of which it is planned, we can share it, but in March, announced that in the presidence the chiefs of the 13 million are to be regarded and conspicuous, that this decree will hardly arrive before the introduction or admit of these events, and that they will hardly be used by the first of the 20th century. And then we share in this sense what Mrs Garrido says a little bit, that we are in front of a marchetine campaign more than a change of paradigma. More than one family plan to protect them, it worked like it was a communication plan until now, at least, and we're gonna give it to you. And I dare say that any other consistency, action, and honesty are demanded by a popular challenge of this kind. This being so, they demand other disputes for us, in order that the reflections about such pretty ones should not be vain. And we really planned the monographicographic on these two axiss, so that we could operate on those two axiss that are fundamental to us, this change of care's social organization, this balancing, and the ability to make people better adapted for the conditions of life. Therefore, we have not made any corrections to-day, because this is not a frame of discussion, a frame of discussion to reach such matters. And in that we share perhaps the distance that the gentleman used to say. And I believe that they show, in a certain sense, the inopportuneness of the frame, the corrections made by the groups, which are almost similar in certain points, but almost in this respect they are almost indissoluble, because each of them has taken a different line. We don't want to underestimate the corrections or plannings made by groups, that's not the intention. We share in a great degree what the Popular Party has said at certain of these points. We see that it may be necessary to increase an investment in such measures as are formed, but it does not appear to us to be so in a general and blackmail manner, that we do not share it, but we share in many of these measures the investments which are recorded on the planet, and you also said, Faraway. And we can't protect the government from what groups support it, because what's planned here is pretty close to the plan, and you've already engaged to it, and we won't protect it from continuing with an engagement you've already made. I mean, you have to do this because you're ready and you have to commit it. And for the moment, at least, the degree of credibility in which it is least doubted, and therefore I think it well to bring them to me, in a great degree, we may share them, but your engagement is already that, and ye must do it. And we share the planning by Podemos together. It is true that we are much nearer these positions, and in the monographicographic it was also evident, but it is true that it has put the argument on a far larger plane. The issue of the care system has come out, and I can't resist this coming out. For me, something very similar to the care system we already have, and it's the social service system. With the development of the system of social services on the basis of that commitment made here by Mr Urrutia, and with the use of that system of social services to generate quality employment and not to generate precarious employment, the truth is that we would also make much progress in this area of equality policies, care and all that we are proposing today. Therefore, because this frame is not for us, our enterprise is already set up in this grade. We planned to promote the new policy of cooperation and responsibility, effective even in our monographics. And from what has been said by the learned in the course of a family tradition, what we plan is to reflect more fully, to make a much deeper plan of the length, and that is what we shall bring in in the next few weeks. And therefore we have not brought in repentance to-day, because it seems to us that when these points are related to us, our frame of controversy is the other. We wouldn't underestimate your initiative, but I'd like to understand that we're dealing with a plan which requires much deeper, that this country has important challenges in this sense, that the transitions of the paradigms are made up of very important, and that these matters seem essential to us to reflect and share in its depths and in the series of observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing on the answers, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u77	Well, it wasn't possible, but on the one hand I'm glad, even though I didn't make any agreements about this interesting and important matter, but at least I think it was clear that this government had not fulfilled what it had to do and the commitments that had been made. I think, at least, that we have censured the government. Then each one has his own solutions. And this, I think, became clear when we had the monographic debat, and had a profound discussion about this subject. Mrs. Guanche, I think it's time for concretion. We have already been in the legislature for two years; therefore, I think it is time, and, frankly, when we have concrete proposals on the table, I think it is time to go down. It was time to go down, above all, when this Government has made announcements and, above all, when we have seen that these announcements have clearly not been met. That is why I believe that we have already had the opportunity to debate extensively and from far broader positions on this issue in the monographic debate, and that now is the time to come down. I have not only focused on the issue of aid. And if I have focused on the issue of aid, it is because the Government itself, in its own interventions by this Government and the Council and in its response to the question, has also focused on birth aid. It's just that when he was talking expressly about looking in the mirror of France he said that other countries that had this problem began to take action in the field of birth, after the Second World War, as was France, and forty years later he is seeing the results. She therefore, when she brought us the example of France and the birth aid, is that she believes – not only, of course, birth aid – that they are a very important part of the policies that must really be put in place to encourage birth, to help families and to enable families, ultimately, to develop the life project they want. He was telling me about the resolution of the aid. You and I know that, of course, time is not desirable, the months of the resolution of aid are extended over time, but it must also be remembered that this Government has given more resources, precisely in order to speed up the settlement of the dossiers – or the applications, rather, in relation to these aid. And it was a commitment he made especially with the People's Group. And I am going to refer again to the issue of aid because it was also brought out by the Councilwoman herself. The Councilwoman herself, in the answer to the question, welcomed the increase in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 – it should be remembered that in that year, in addition, conciliation aid was halved – the family aid budget was EUR 47 million; in 2015, EUR 69 million; and in 2019, EUR 79 million (birth and conciliation aid budget). Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 we had a budget of 63 million euros and this government executed 48 million euros. That is to say, this Government, the Government of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, have had more money allocated to the budgets to meet the needs of Basque families has done nothing for it, because it has subsequently been unable to adopt the necessary instruments to implement these measures and has been unable to pass the decrees supporting these concrete measures. I am referring to the decree that was adopted in summer, when it was announced at the beginning of the legislature the increase of the annuality by the second son from 2 to 3 years, or I am referring to the famous decree of the surpluses that is announced on 21 March 2018 and in the best of the cases, according to the textual words of the councilwoman, it will not be put into effect until autumn 2019, and on top of it it will not comply with the commitment acquired by the councilwoman herself, since it was said that it was going to be a general help, it is already being restricted from the second son and on top it is already being said that it will not have retroactive effects. I therefore believe that it is clear that this Government does not care about Basque families. What the counselor cannot tell me is that the budgets have increased and "How good we have done, that we have been able to allocate more economic resources!" "By the way, and everything has to be said, on the proposal of the People's Party, that we put on the table more resources." And, by the way, it should also be remembered that if you cared about families so much, you would have already planned, in relation to the fulfilment of the commitments with the People's Party, to eliminate the 7 % cut during this parliamentary term, and you would have foreseen it in the Budgets that you submitted in November 2019, which you did not have in mind because the elimination of that cut did not come, it is now coming. But it is absolutely not enough to put 2 million euros for family policies, to remove that cut, 15 million euros for the rise of the GIR, when you yourselves wrote down an amount of 19 million euros for surpluses. It's just that this same year you're going to go blank, as you went through 2017 with the increase in help from the second to the third child. Well...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u78	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u79	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Obviously, the initiative is not going to come out, I think the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party is a joke, because it is absolutely insufficient. We are told of gradual increases, when there have been announcements made here on drums and plates that have occupied pages of newspapers, teleberris, and then – of course, he will already judge Basque citizenship – they stay in what remains, and what is confirmed again is that for you Basque families, of course, are not in the place that should be for any government that is valued and that has a problem with one of the lowest birth rates, not only of the rest of Spain, but of the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u80	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u81	Well, thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Garrido, I told you before that I was going to tell you a story and I'm not going to miss my word. Yesterday I spoke with a friend, a very close friend with a dependent family member, who asked for help in caring for dependents in November. We're in February and there's still no answer. Technically, people who take advantage of this financial aid have 6 months to be able to respond from the government, 6 months. 6 months while people lower their wages and wait. There will be those who can, but there will also be those who can't. This does not appear anywhere in your proposal. You seem only to be concerned about the economic amount, and we are concerned that only those who have the most facilities and not those who have the most needs can take advantage of this aid. We are also concerned that there is an amount of economic aid of 27 million women workers for the care of children, 1.5 million for the care of dependent persons, and 19.5 million for maternity leave, all of which are described by the Gender Impact Assessment Report of Budget Memory as perverse aid, because they reproduce gender roles, and that the only one that is not qualified as such, which is recruitment for caregivers, has an amount of 400,000. Well, honestly, at least it seems curious to us, it seems curious to us. I'm going to say that we're also going to value the famous star measure, but we'll wait to see it, because I have no doubt that you'll have traps, as you announced. Anyway, I am not going to continue to enter into this love-hate relationship that you have with the government and I am going to focus on Mr Urrutia. I am going to focus on Mr Urrutia, first of all to acknowledge that our amendments do indeed look like the tables of Moses. I'm surprised, yes, that for the first time yours is longer than mine. I, in any case, will try to explain to you why we do not see your amendment. The first point you have was announced for the first time in March 2018; since then you have announced it at least twice as much, and last week Mr Erkoreka again took the same step. Nothing new. Point two, taken literally from Decree No. 121/2008 of 30 July 2008 amending the Decree on financial support for families with dependent children. Nothing new and already approved. Point number three, drawn from the wage gap strategy that you got out of the joke, without the backing of 60% of the representation of workers in November 2018. Nothing new, either. Point number four, drawn from the agreements reached in this Parliament – and not on the proposal of the PNV – during the family monograph of March 2018. I, as Mrs Kortajarena said, believe that these points are commitments that have already been made, if not with this Parliament, at least with the citizenry, and that they must be fulfilled. So, understand that we're not going to applaud him. I am flattered, however, that they speak of me in privacy, but I am always a woman open to dialogue and consensus. It is true that since coming from elsewhere, we may have to work and do a reflection to generate a common language. You consider everything you do phenomenal, and we consider it not. So, in any case, I thanked him for his compromise proposal, and it's true that I didn't insist because I'm not one of the ones who's been dizzying the loser until the last moment. I like to be clear, and I told you clearly that you had removed from our amendment all the mommy, and I say it to you with a word that we both understand, because so I'm sure there is no room for misunderstanding. Allow me to say that in this we could reach an agreement in the future, if it is not written, I do not trust. Because you keep making announcements, and we keep making commitments in this House which the government then fails to fulfil. Why am I going to believe that care is going to come forward, if we have not reached agreements in this House with social services, with RGI, with statistical tools, with Lanbide...? Why? You accuse me of having little desire to reach an agreement. I think there's a base we have to work on because we don't share. And when you build on mud feet you run the risk of the foundations sinking. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u83	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs Garrido, I wish you where you govern would have put in place measures such as those that are being implemented in this Basque Autonomous Community; I hope, because it would have been much better for those autonomous communities. I believe that here we have a good strategy and a global strategy that must be maintained over time. And I agree with Mrs Guanche when she mentioned that you also have a lot of responsibility for the difficulties families are facing with the cuts and labour reform that you have put in place. Reading today's last-minute teletypes has made me laugh, because I have read a few statements today from Mr. Married, who says that "to pay pensions you have to think about having more children and less about having an abortion." And I'm laughing. In order to pay pensions, what must be done is not to lower wages as they have fallen in the labour reform, to have achieved greater bases of contribution, etc., etc., and probably so, too, if those wages had not been lowered and if that labour reform had not been implemented, families today would not have the difficulties they have after applying all those cuts, and you have responsibility for that. Then they come here, they ask for the support from this Autonomous Community to be increased and with that they are completely calm and it seems that you do or want to do wonderful family policies, and we have already said that these policies, by short-term planners, can be a complement, but they cannot be the only measures, but they must be part of a global strategy that is maintained over time in order to achieve the objectives that are intended to be achieved. And, Mrs Guanche, Mrs Kortajarena has already said, you have referred to a Basque system of care, which could be discussed, etc., etc., but we have a Basque system of social services where care also comes in and where we have also recently discussed the need that it also needs to be further developed and that this development has been slower than expected at first. And that is where we have to focus right now – I believe – our efforts, even if we could think or study other systems, but we already have the Basque system of social services, which we want to continue to apply. And, simply, we are going to defend our amendment to the whole, signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, because we believe it is the best proposal for today's initiative, and for this I ask the support of the other groups in the House. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u84	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u85	Well, I'll try to talk as briefly as I can. Ma'am, do you really think that what Mrs Garrido wanted here is a criticism? Yes, but does it seem disappointing to be the only purpose and to rejoice in it, the state? And the paradigma up and down the paradigma is true, but what has not changed the paradigma here is Mrs Garrido, and I believe that the initiative that has brought us here today is a witness. Mrs Garrido, you have said many things in your two speeches. It's frustrating to me for moments. Look, I, to the comrades I have next to you when you start talking I tell you what you're going to say and the order; that the lehendakari announced I don't know how many millions in a pre-campaign, the councilwoman announced I don't know what in the full monographic, the IV Plan came late – but it did –; that is, the speech you make, above all, in your first speech, if we look at the successive debates we've had on this subject, is that you have learned this from memory, as the one who learns our father, that is, and always says the same, even if it turns out to be out to be out of time. I encourage you, for example, to ask for this information on programme 31240, on family and Community policy; and, if you do not, look at it, I make it available to you, and there is a possibility of contrasting support for the General Administration, support for families with children, aid for the reconciliation of working and family life, and support for family policy for children and reconciliation. You set the example of France, and it is true, but it turns out that the counselor has not told you anything that is uncertain. I mean, that France started this from the Second World War is a certainty, as is a certainty the fact that at the moment, at the moment, it does not reach the goals, and that is a fact, and that, in the end, does not have to be a demerit for the counselor. Then, you talk a lot about that certain cuts began in time of the lehendakari Patxi López. Forgive me, but it also began with your vote; therefore, listen, lessons, lessons, the just. You talk about no ambition. What I don't see is ambition in your speech. What I have said to Mrs Kortajarena: what I see is that the one that has not changed the paradigm is you. And as far as Mrs Guanche is concerned, look, we will fulfil and do our best to fulfil our commitments. With regard to the tables of Moses, I was saying this because the fact that the original initiative was so partial, so biased – in my opinion – makes it often, within the time of amendments, that we make amendments in which we begin to introduce more things that, of course, fit in this matter – which is very broad, very transversal – and in the end, what we all end up doing, including me, in my compromise proposals, even in my amendment, and Mrs Sánchez, of course, seems, more than a non-law proposal, it seems what she said, the tables of Moses, with which we end up decentralizing the issue of what is really important. And he has no doubt that we do not consider that we do everything right. No, no, We don't think we're doing everything right, but I do have the impression that you think we're doing everything wrong. As for the care system, what I have told you is, and I can agree with Mrs Kortajarena, that we do not have to come up with a specific care system, we do not have to, but what we do have to do is to make visible that job, that job which is absolutely feminine, and what we have to do is to take care of caregivers. And we have to start the strategy out there, out there, in our opinion. And then this strategy could lead us – why not, we're not closed to it either – to a Basque care system you were talking about. You were talking about that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u86	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u87	Yeah, it's the last one. You were talking about us acting with mud feet. Well, I don't know if we set bases with mud feet, but sometimes it does give me the impression that you usually make many castles in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u88	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. EHGG rep. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u89	Yes, thank you. Mrs Garrido, I believe that you yourself have shown that the issue is that more money, more money, more money is useless. The data shows that. And I would also like to remind you that many of those cuts that have been made in the area of family policies have been made with your support in the Budgets. Anyway, let's look forward to the result that gives in the birth policies that trinomial that they have mounted between Vox, Citizens and the People's Party in Andalusia, we will see what results that results in birth policies. I would say to Mrs Sánchez that, in truth, you have to be a little careful when you say things, because Mrs Artolazabal said something quite similar – saving the distances from the few filters that Mr Married has – also Mrs Artolazabal said that we had to encourage birth to pay pensions, and I think that, obviously, here we have to do family policies, but I don't think we have to have any more children to maintain a system. I mean, our bodies, ours, they're not used for political purposes, they're other things. I believe that in this regard I share your approaches to the effects of labour reform on birth. And I encourage you, now that you are in the government, to repeal those reforms and we can be talking about other conditions. I'd say far away, as far as the paradigma changes, that I can't ask a change of paradigm to the Poptular Party. He will not do so, and he has no scheme, but his family politics are his family politics, and if they are to be observed in any respect, it is to establish the paradigms in old age, and not to combine any changes. But you made the commitment to those changes of paradigma with your Euskal treaty, and then I ask you to be able to change these paradigms in this treaty and in those challenges mentioned by the President. Aipatzen zenuen, baita ere, the theme of caring for caregivers. Carers, there are many people who are carers, and carers are also all those people, all those women who work in residences, who work in home care, all those women who work in precarious jobs, totally feminized and precarious professions, who are on strike, who are on strike in many places and to whom the normative development, for example, of the Social Services Act would offer them another framework, another framework of employment. With this, we will support these measures of caring for caregivers, but the concept of caregiver also needs to be expanded and taken into account. And you will remember that monographic discussion we discussed on the subject of the treaty, and I think you will remember our will and attitude we had for the treaty. And when we got down here, I was grateful to the government, as well as the groups that held the government, they had been able to reach the agreements around the size of that monographic. He went out, too, in order to be able to perform this plan, below 18 euros, which is so important on the way to the Fertilisation of Childes. And at the moment when the change of paradigmma is planned, we will be accompanied. That's where we talked about it and that's what we're going to do. But today it is a little time for me to pull them out of my ears and ask them to realize them, to continue to do them, and to be consistent with what has been said, and to begin to see the plans of these paradigmations in prevaries and other pretty ones. That's what we plan today. Anyway, so much love and hate, so, well, maybe something will have come out of this discussion. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put Garrido Knörr's original text of Mrs. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the 10th; the contrary, 37; the white, 0; the abstainments 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u91	So, not allowed original text. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u92	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we'll vote for the Eucabertians and Sociaists of Eukal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 38; white, 0; abstinence, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u93	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. The whole meeting is interrupted until four o'clock. The meeting stopped at two o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-two. At four o'clock the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u94	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group, in all the schools which are supported by public funds in the euscal system, is to guarantee instruction. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. Macazaga, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u95	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, head of the Uriors. We propose to discuss today in order to ensure the real diversity of Eukadin and social cohesion. We're gonna talk about education activities today. We discuss the right of education, which is to-day necessary and free, as the law protects it, and the public authority is concerned with the execution of the law, because it is to fulfil and respect the laws. He said that today we are bringing to debate an initiative by Elkarrekin Podemos. We believe that it is of utmost importance to ensure real equality of opportunity and social cohesion in the Basque Country. We talk about free compulsory education. Today we are talking about the right to compulsory and free education, free of charge that is protected by law and that the public authorities have the responsibility and the obligation to comply, because the laws are to be complied with and respected. In this regard, the Government has a responsibility to ensure universal and free access to education. This Government must make the right to education effective and real for all persons, all persons, regardless of their social origin and economic level. And for that reason, today we are bringing this initiative to debate, a proposal which has as its objective nothing more or less to ensure the freeness of education for all. Guztiontzako hezkuntzaren doakotasuna bermazzeari buruzko ekimena. But is compulsory education really free in Euskadi? What will be the thoughts of the thousands of families who are listening to us today and who have an obligation to pay the monthly fee in the subsidized, concerted private centers for the education of their sons and daughters? Are families really aware that by law they are not required to pay tuition fees? Are families really aware that education is free? Does this Government duly inform families of the non-compulsory nature of the payment of tuition fees? Because the law says, Mrs Uriarte – and you have reminded us several times in Parliament – "The regulations expressly prevent concerted centres from levying quotas on families for education". Why can families be charged quotas? They can be charged for complementary services. Only for complementary services, such as transportation, dining, out-of-school activities or psychological services. But that's it. Only for complementary services, which are not compulsory, because, as we have already said, education is and must be free for all. This has to be made clear once and for all and must be known by all families. That is why it is information that this Government must provide explicitly to all families, especially those within the most disadvantaged socio-economic sector. We must be clear, every family ought to know its identity. All families, especially those who have low sociation phenomena of indexes. And reporting to families is the government's responsibility. And why are we especially talking about families within the most disadvantaged socio-economic sector? Because quotas are a barrier that prevents this mantra that both PP and PNV keep repeating (freedom of center choice, ikastetxea aukeratzeko askatasunaren skubidea). And this is when we ask ourselves: free choice of center for whom? Who can choose center? Which families can really choose center? Can anyone who can't afford to pay a monthly fee choose center? What do we do with families who cannot pay the fee, who want a particular school because they like their educational project, because they also want an education without dogmas, with an educational curriculum without confessional contents? Where's your free choice of center? Who's making sure of it? Seamos responsables: la Liberted de eucción no Existe, no es real. The right of choosing a school is an excuse for political parties who seek to privatize education, an excuse used to maintain a model of education protected by private education and public money, and also for the disadvantage of public education. Freedom of choice of centre is nothing more than an excuse for parties mainly betting on the privatization of education to ensure that subsidized or concerted private education is maintained to the detriment of public education. Freedom of choice of centre is nothing more than the perfect alibi for school segregation, because, yes, school segregation and concentration exist in Euskadi. Although this Parliament, for the most part, would not even allow debate on school segregation, school segregation exists in Euskadi, and, if not, come closer to many of the schools in Vitoria-Gasteiz, talk to the AMPA and the centre addresses. Behind the invocations of freedom of choice of centre, what is really hidden is the rejection of the social mix, to educate the children with whom they are not of the same class, so more than talking about freedom of choice we should talk about limited options in a system that leads students to the educational stratum that corresponds to their social origin. Y no podemos permitir que las rightelas sian reflupjo de las desigides sociales exiles en Euscadi. We can't allow eskal schools to represent the social differences that exist in Euskadin. Freedom of choice of centre will be real at a time when "voluntary" quotas – in quotes – are not a barrier for families who want to choose a subsidized private centre to do so. That is why today, through one of our original initiatives, we urge Parliament to ensure free education in all publicly funded schools, we call on this Parliament to do something as simple as complying with the law. The freedom of choice of centre will be real at a time when, for example, all families have the same information to decide in which educational centre to enrol their child, but for that reason they must be properly informed, and therefore, in our point two and three, we urge this Parliament to provide all publicly funded centres, all of them, during the period of admission of applications for enrollment and the period of enrollment, with all of them in a prescriptive manner, in paper format, with information reflecting the existing legislation and regulations relating to the gratuitousness of all public and private institutions, and that this information is visible, accessible, we shall ensure that it is communicated and informed, through all visible media (web of the Department of Education, websites of the centres themselves, Irekia, circulars, etc., etc.), but that it arrives. After all, the freedom of choosing a college by our initiative is guaranteed. Together we say yes to the freedom right of choosing the schools from Podemos, but for all of us. This ensures freedom of choice, because from Elkarrekin We can say yes, yes to the center choice, but for all and all. And it's not something we just say. The Euskadi School Council itself, in its periodic reports on the situation of education in Euskadi, provides interesting data on the inequality and distribution of networks of the student intern, the immigrant student, the student with special educational needs, the student repeater, the student who is not at the level corresponding to his age and the socioeconomic level by strata. And in the last report, referring to the period 2015-2017, it can be seen that all strata of the concerted network have a higher ISEC (socio-economic index) than any of the strata of the public network, with the corresponding impact on academic results and also on the scores of external evaluations, such as PISA or diagnostic evaluations, since the correlation between socio-economic status and academic performance is well known. On the basis of this data, the Euskadi School Council itself has been making proposals related to equity; among them, the need to ensure gratuity by controlling the collection of fees or that fees for complementary activities are approved by the Administration, ultimately requiring what is already enshrined in the law. In short, education must be completely free of charge in all schools and for all pupils, basically because everyone has the right by law to receive good free education. It is the responsibility of this Government to ensure the right to compulsory and free education. It's simple. It is the responsibility of this Government to comply with the law, its own decrees. Families must be properly informed. There is a great deal of ignorance about this, and it is also the responsibility of this Government, to ensure freedom of choice of centre, to inform and communicate to families about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u97	Good afternoon to everyone. Mr. Urkullu, Mrs. Uriart. In theory, education is one of the most important rights in all respects to the progress and cohesion of a society at the foundation of a society. In theory, but in reality all parties, including the government, abandon education to the corner of the game. In theory, public institutions must, on the other hand, guarantee that education is due to their right, when the equality of all citizens is a matter of choice. But no, education isn't free, though it's legally received at the International Human Rights Card, Proclamation, 26th. in the article, in the second writing of the public Basque School... Theoretically, in theory, laws must be fulfilled. And it's a lot of times the schools get attached to the Mantra "The Law must be fulfilled." I have had occasion to live the experience of this experience in the high school of my eldest son: The inspectors wanted to change our schedule, the time when it was supposed to have been legal for 20 years was illegal, when it's government, when it's inspections, when they're the first to avoid the law. In other words, when we need to obey the law, but beware of the interpretation of the Administration, and when we don't have the law, we don't have to do it with another interpretation. Why, then, the law? To prevent the administration. For this is the law, and the constraint of the people; if it be possible, to reduce the rights, liberties, and choices of the people. In theory, families have the right to choose schools. Theoretically. But in reality it is not. Though you will repeat to us a thousand times in this house, and try to deceive yourself, and to deceive the rest, it is that right. The rest, the quotas, the plates, the criteria, and all the tricks that prevent the families from choosing the schools. Because reality is very crude, very crude. And all the theories, all the papers, and all the campaigns of the plates of the Board of Education, are exceeded by the laws. Not going too far, two days ago, or two days ago, on social networks, the Director of Ramon's Party would give an example. You know, we're at the premunctation season, and a mother came to him saying that she wanted to change her daughters' school. She went to a board school and asked for 80 francs a month, and he couldn't afford it. We've had testimony at several times at the Board of Education, and have even been told by our visits, so they're not isolated cases. And then you'll say that this quota isn't to pay for teaching, but for keeping sub-frastructures etc., etc., but, well... It's just that the whole education today, not just the public, is financed with public money, everything, all 90-95%, one way or another, helping and then calling. Everything's paid for public money. The question is, there is hardly any control of that public money, no tracking, and I think it is minimum to ask for the control and continuity of the public money. Just as there are no other regulations and legal controls, such as the criteria of license, even if there are subsidies of license, even though there are visions, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., and so on. But the subject is deeper, much deeper. The problem is not only whether quotas are paid or not; our problem and the challenge will not be solved if your quotas are stopped. This does not mean, of course, that the law should not be executed. The subject of the hedge and of the inculation, for example, is not only solved by a free education, but requires much more measures, and some of them are the measures which go beyond education. And if we don't understand that, we're going very badly. We are, as has often been said, face to face with a complex polyedero with many spikes, and the other, of course, must be the whole of its own, in its integralness. And in that sense, the Board of Education cannot continue to act ostrich, Mrs. Uriarte. In fact, the pattern we have today is exhausted, it's obvious that it can't be answered any more, either economically or socially, although I don't know how to go up on cement. The example we have made is no longer valid in answering to our present society, nor in answering to future society, nor guarantees the equality of all the citizens. The model of education today is involved in bureaucracy, involved in impotence, and reality is, unfortunately, crude. We've been trying to make a good diagnosis from the start of legislation to ask for it. We didn't succeed because some schools have to respond to very complex social reality, and these schools need professionals in other profiles, they need more resources. Other schools, on the other hand, the society which they are to resist is much more homogeneous, it is easier to answer, so that the administration ought to reflect a great deal, but it is especially necessary to make decisions. And besides, how can we make education a free education? Do we have to fund public schools that don't do public responsibility with public money? What's public responsibility? I think that the same treatment of the people in multiplicity, community education, etc., etc. So, a thousand questions, we have a thousand components that we have to deal with on the table and which we don't. For an interest? Don't we answer these questions for an interest? Because it's a two-speed society and it's a goal, and that's why we need two-speed education? That, Christian, humanism, with a little spoon of charity. What for? To justify ourselves? To justify ourselves? But let me tell you something. the society we have, the variety we have, is the society which we have been in since, as it happened in the '70s, so that we do not repeat the same mistakes as before. So, at the moment, what we have to do is, first, to keep the law; and on the other hand, to adapt to new times, we must modify the educational system, which we need a foundation, and to put it in common, and then we must agree to obtain a new legal frame. And this, we must do among all, we have no choice. There's no other route here. There's no path. And so we, for example, tried to make an essay, have registered a group of writers to begin the work, because it's urgent, it's urgent. We can't keep cheating on ourselves. We can't go on giving up reality. A more incoherent society, no more cohesion with discourses, does not make it with thepaints. It takes measures, precise measures. And this demands that the neighbouring building should become reality, and that it should be built by a moderate quarter of education (which will guarantee the right of education). And I'd like to finish this first statement with some reflection. You see, there is an idea that is very inserted in society: what is paid, or paid more, is better. The question is: Is everything paid good? Does paying a lot guarantee quality? Does he guarantee rights? I would say no, and go farther: the best things in life are those which are not paid, are they not? We seek love, friendship, solidarity, mutual affection... And that's not paid. Another reflection, too, is that we have this figure very much integrated into society: It's better education that's paid. And the other day, as a director of one of the schools told me, if the families of the immigrants go to the best, they try to go to the school they paid for. So, what ideas are we fostering in our society? To finish: Whatever's going on, where's the Board of Education? Where is it, Mrs. Uriart, the Board of Education? What's the Board of Education doing? Meanwhile, the agreements of the plates, the criteria of the plates, the laws, the regulations, are deceptions. The paper takes care of everything to squeeze some for the sake of others.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u99	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor, fellow Members of Parliament. Well, let's see, me, when I started studying this proposal from the Elkarrekin group we could be very happy, because the title promised. I promised. The title was: "Ensure free education in all schools in the Basque educational system supported by public funds". We can't agree more. I'm telling you, I've been deluded. But, of course, when I read the motion I saw that the real intention – in my opinion – was not to guarantee gratuitousness in all the centers but to virtually extinguish those who choose half of the Basque families. Because, of course, there is a funding problem here, and a very big funding problem. And I agree with the representative of Euskal Herria Bildu when she said that the current situation is aggravated, exhausted, and that it is an urgent issue, premiumazkoa. I agree with her, too. But, well, let's see what else we can agree on. First, I hope we agree that the publicly funded centers that you usually call private or I don't know... No, they are concerted centres and – they always forget the last part – social initiative, that is, we are not talking about companies. We're talking about social initiative centres. What comes in, comes out. They're not companies. Well, I believe that with the right to receive free education, which is reflected both in the 1948 Declaration of Human Rights and in the European Convention on Human Rights or in our Constitution, in Article 27, I believe we all agree. Everyone. Education at compulsory stages must be free of charge. We're already getting more deals. The Constitutional Court had to interpret article 27 and ruled in 1985 in its resolution 77 that this article entails an institutional obligation to ensure the free provision of compulsory education at both stages, respecting the freedom of parents to choose the education they want. That is, if a father or mother chooses a concerted education, the institution has an obligation to guarantee free education. I believe that we will also continue to agree on this. But, of course, does that happen today? It doesn't happen, Counselor. Look, it gives me a little lota and everything starts to give you data. Some I'll give you, huh? I will try to cut myself, but, let's see, the Basque Country spends 63% more on students than the Community of Madrid. There is a difference of 2,842 euros between what the Autonomous Community of Madrid spends and what the Basque Country spends. Madrid, Navarra, Catalonia and, above all, Castile and León, Galicia, Aragon and Asturias, which have a lower socio-economic environment than ours, are all above the OECD in PISA results, and we in some matter rubbed it, but together we are below, and we are the ones who spend the most money on education per student. But that has a trick. That is true to some extent, because in public education the expenditure per student is around 9,000 euros, around 9,000 euros. And in that, above all, I have the data, so that then the counselor does not correct me, I have the data for 2013, in that it was spent 9,175 euros per student. But, of course, we are going to the concerted, which has the same obligations, the same, which is to guarantee the free choice of parents, which has the right to public funding according to the ruling of the Constitutional Court. The freedom of choice of parents, Mrs Macazaga, is not a mantra, it is a structural, legal, legitimate piece of our entire system, it is not a mantra. So, what's going on? That, of course, when they say "No, because the Basque Country spends 7,000 euros per student where most of the communities are around 5,000 or 5,000 peaks." No, no, it's not true, it's just that in the public it's not that 7,000 euros are spent, it's that in stages of the public, in the ESO, for example, in 2013, I again give the data, it was spent 9,175 euros, not 7,000. But, of course, as the average has to be done with the concerted, that year was spent 6,475 – and this has gone a bit down, now I will give you the 2016 data –, of course, an average that everyone, in the rest of the communities and in the rest of Europe, says "What a good endowment!". No, no, it will be the public, because the concerted, which is of social initiative, which are not companies, is not financed this way, is not financed this way. I told you I'm going to give you... I've got the 2016 high school data here. The concerted one, per student received 4,285 euros, and the public 8,671 euros, that is, the public is about 9,000, but the concerted one is 4,285 euros. These are official data, I'm referring to high school. So, all of you have said here, "The law must be enforced; the law must be enforced." Look, another chapter in which we agree: the law, we have to comply with it; and the regulations, etc., etc. So, what does the Basque concert rules say? It says that the General Budgets of the CAPV will detail for each level of education the amount module per educational unit intended for the support of the concerted social initiative centers – not enterprises: social. This module will calculate, as in the public domain, staff costs, regular operating costs, maintenance and maintenance costs and actual investment replacement costs. Of course, this isn't done. And I'm sorry, counselor, but, really, the system is exhausted, you see, we're having strikes and we have to rethink it, but think, as people who intervened before me said, we have to comply with the law, law bete beharra dago, it's mandatory, law bete behar dugu legea; orduan, let's comply, let's comply with it. Look, in Infantil, to get back to the 2009-2010 funding we would have to increase it by 8 million euros, by 8 million euros, these are data from the department, really, because in 2013 they had 9,000 – this, I think, is for everything, for the private and the concerted –; in 2013 they had 9,175 euros and now they have 6,475, we had a very strong step back. What the people involved often ask of us is, at least, to achieve the pre-crisis levels; but then let us also remember: for equal obligations, equal rights, and concerted social initiative education guarantees the freedom of parents to choose. I repeat, they are not companies, they are not companies and they have the right to be financed in accordance with the rights imposed on them and without comparative aggravations, and that is what we have to address. And at that moment I will not be talking about quotas or talking about such stories, really, compulsory education will be free of choice and will be free of charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists team. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u101	Thank you, President. We have here today a non-legislative proposal, tabled by the Group of the European Parliament, on ensuring free education in all schools in the education system supported by public funds, and it is an important issue, so important that we do not understand how you have had this initiative in the freezer for more than a year and are bringing it now, precisely now, to Parliament, an issue that was as important and as important, as you said yourself. Frankly, it gives me the smell that has a certain hue of opportunism to bring to debate this initiative just in this plenary and just at the time when there is a situation of certain chaos due to the strike of concerted education; it is by chance, but there are few coincidences in politics. And we do not think it appropriate for this strike situation in these centres to try to use this issue in a plenary debate, when you have had 12 months ahead of you for bringing it on other occasions. And in this proposal you also touch a little everything without really making anything clear: you touch on the subject of registration, the responsibility of the government, the inspection of quotas, the economic factor, and perhaps you do not dare to say explicitly in the initiative what really seems to be the substance of the issue, which is that you would prefer to eliminate the agreed centres. And I want to say that we are not in favour of an excessive concentration in concerted centres, we would prefer that there be a predominance of the public school – I think you too – but it is that the current law, the one we have, the law of the Basque Public School – and it is true that it is an anomaly in the European concert and in the whole of Spain – recognizes a situation that is given by a very specific situation that existed in Euskadi at the time of the adoption of that law, and we like to respect the law, and, if not, put the mechanisms on the table to make it easier for it to change. It is true, as you say, that the financing of quotas, called voluntary quotas, is difficult to monitor, and my group is in favour – and I am well aware of this – of the fact that these quotas are properly controlled, and it is also true that they can be said to be illegal, since they are not compulsory. And this voluntary fee is the one that will have to monitor the department. It will have to sit and negotiate, and take a more active role in the strike process, too, to reach a consensus that is in everyone's interest, taking a role, perhaps, as mediator. And that inspection plan that you are proposing, a specific inspection plan, may not be out of the way to control those quotas, but frankly, Mrs Macazaga, we do not see that it is necessary at this time, we do not consider it necessary to make a specific inspection plan to ensure real gratuity, as you call it, since, since it is funds of concerted centres and public funds, in this case, they must be controlled and supervised by the Administration. In any case, we can say that the Administration has to monitor more closely and more effectively. It must ensure that the rules are made visible and, above all, that they are respected and enforced. And in this way, the regulations must be known in the way or manner that the Department of Education deems appropriate, but they must be known in an appropriate manner. And we agree that at the time of enrollment in a public centre everything must be public, up to the quota. And it's true that sometimes this one doesn't usually show up or is not usually informed of it. It must be clear, in our opinion, that it is a free centre. Another theme later was voluntary contributions for supplementary services. But this issue that you raise goes beyond, and what needs to be effectively guaranteed is the freedom and right of families to freely choose the educational centre and project; not because we Socialists say so, but because it is expressly enshrined in the Basque Public School Act. And the first problem that exists, and that is a factor to take into account – and it also influences – is the low birth rate that we have in Euskadi, one of the lowest, if not the lowest, in Europe at the moment, and that is an obvious problem that also causes a sort of student hunt to occur by some centers in some areas. That is why it seems important to make a division between public and concerted schools in response to the demands of the neighbourhoods. We believe that it would be a root problem, because with this premise, what we would achieve is a situation in which some centres would have a very high enrolment rate and others would be subjected to an irreparable loss of pupils or to their disappearance. But all this cannot be mixed into the same initiative and for the same debate when it is essentially the Government that has the clear answer. That is what the Socialist Group is very clear about, and it is that any centre or entity supported by public funds has an obligation to promote equality and to work against any discrimination. That is what we have defended and that is what we think, that education made with criteria of rationality and equity is the best tool for transforming society. And here we agree on the general approach with you and with the group of Euskal Herria Bildu; now, we will differ in how to make it effective and in the concrete proposal. We have formalized an amendment with the Basque Nationalist Party in which an instance is made to the Basque Government, which, in accordance with Decree 1/2018 of 9 January, on admission and schooling of students, supervises, is urged to supervise through the territorial commissions of guarantee of admission the process of admission of students to public and private institutions in their territory, and to ensure compliance with the regulations governing it, without prejudice to the functions and competences of the Education Inspectorate. That is to say, there are instruments, they are put in place, what needs to be demanded is that they be complied with and that they function. There is no need to create any more plans, plans, campaigns and tents, when the necessary tools exist in the Administration. Let's get them to work. It also calls for the continuation of inspection activities, both from the territorial commissions and from the educational inspection, to ensure the exercise of the rights and duties of the persons forming the educational community recognized by the current regulations. And, of course, I know that Mrs Bengoechea is very concerned about the right of families to choose freely the educational centre and project they want for their children. I believe that we have made a very reasonable, very focused proposal and that I think it addresses a solution to the problem, probably not completely, but, frankly, to create new campaigns, tents and chiringuitos to solve problems that already have instruments, that what needs to be done is to put them to work, seems to me to be a certain irresponsibility. Now, it looks really good to pull out a banner, but for nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u102	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u103	Thank you, Chief. President, chief physician, good afternoon to all. Egia esan, iruditzen zait gai librean aritzeko bertso-sai batan gaudela; edozertaz hitz egiteko puntu umen da gai-zerrendako puntu hau. Apparently, we are on the agenda item where we need to talk a little bit about everything and a lot of nothing. For, perhaps, the moment or the moment may be the best starting point; for the moment, which has been chosen to bring this enterprise, says much of the intention of the proposer, for this initiative, which was registered on the 18th of January 2018, Podemos, has been here for a whole year since the time of the census, and Podemos has not been able to enter into the list. And all these things we've just been hearing about have something to do with the timing, right? There's nothing accidental here, Mr. Pastor used to say: "Aquí, me es casalia." In the middle of pre-school, we can, once again, feed the rift, the division, the war between networks and family choices. "The worse, the better." Nor are we surprised, because it is customary for them to do so in the field of education and in many others. "EH Bilt brought us two mantras this evening too: "He's out of tune" is good for all discussions, "he's out of his diet," and he says he's encouraging two-speed society by the Jelt Party, by the Eukozok and by the rest of the world. The Basque Nationalist Party recognizes the Basque educational system as a set aimed at meeting the educational needs of Basque society, in which the provision of basic education is carried out through two complementary and non-subsidiary networks, which articulate the Basque educational system, public centres and concerted centres. And they are all part, in our view, of the Basque educational system. No one doubts that the public school has and must have an essential role, and that is obvious. But that does not justify a person who despises the other half of the education system. This does not justify seeking and feeding the confrontation with 50% of pupils and families. And the goal of some political and social actors is clear: that only public school survives. We can say it in public over and over again: "Public money only for public school." And the other 50% of the system, of the families, of the students? That's exactly the same for them. What do we do with all that? He has spoken of a thousand things: the sum, finance, license system, the supposed privatization intention, the supposed alibi, the public money, should be directed only to the public school... And they've come out clearly again with the obsessions and focuses of some groups. We can have a long discussion about all these things, we have several times the same discussions on the committee, and I don't think this is the time. But I'd like to be around what you wrote about a year ago. The most remarkable thing of the case is, as has been said, a specific plan of inspection. And our party does not see the need of this specific plan, and I will endeavour to explain its reason. The 11th Legislature's governance programme, which is firmly committed to more socially balanced human development, in which the welfare state is a clear and irrevocable priority, has established a concrete axis dedicated to education of excellence to ensure social balance. So education is a right? Yes, of course, it's a right, it's a legally acknowledged right. And we see education as an essential element in promoting equal opportunities among people and building democratic, supportive and responsible coexistence. The right to education is a universal right, and in that regard we believe that it should be regarded as a public good, which must be developed around common elements such as equity, coexistence, cohesion, quality, etc. and subject to common standards in its exercise. This Parliament endorsed this concept of public good a few months ago, when we urged the Department of Education to focus on the common elements of the concept of public good that must be developed by all educational institutions, regardless of their ownership, as a sum of the values and principles that inform and vertify the Basque public education system. Does the law say education must be free? Yeah. It's different that what's planning here today is whether voluntary quotas are acceptable or not. What are voluntary quotas? Well, here it is said, and ye yourselves acknowledged that they are thus received in the law: On the one hand, the sum of money, which may be demanded for the sake of proprieties, and on the other hand for the useful services. What are additional activities? Cultural activities, sports, leisure, or socialism, go beyond the planet of study. And extra services are the service of the school station, the schoolcarry service, a psychopedagogic cabinet, etc. So why don't we agree with the plan? Decree 1/2018, on admission and schooling of students, both in public institutions under the department of competence in education and in private concerted schools, already generally provides for the inspection action requested in the no-law proposal we are debating today. Article 15 already provides for the obligation to set up territorial commissions of admission guarantees, which, among their functions, must perform the following – and I am sure that they will do so – "Supervise the process of admission of pupils to public and private establishments in their territory and ensure compliance with the regulations governing them, without prejudice to the functions and powers of the Education Inspectorate". These inspection activities carried out both from school commissions and from the educational inspection form part of the daily activity of the Department of Education. And the department, as it cannot be otherwise, has consulted on the collection of quotas for various purposes, such as co-operative quotas, congregation aid, etc., and in all cases where the inspection has been involved, it has been ensured that no quotas are issued other than those relating to supplementary and extra-curricular activities or the provision of services, and that in cases where other quotas such as those just mentioned will be voluntary and will never refer to concepts associated with the schooling service. Considering all this, our team introduced a full-scale correction to the initiative a year ago. And what did that correction say? On the one hand, we requested the Board of Education to accept the students, and with the order of education, that he should see by means of the guarantees of the country, that in the public and compact schools of their territory the students should accept the trial and confirm that the regulation which regulates this process is followed without leaving the functions and jurisdictions of the inspection of the Education. Then Mrs. Ubera has mentioned that, connected with this, there is a lack of criteria about the registration, and that, as far as I know, the criteria have been established in regulations, and we have recently reviewed it in the year 1818. So they're public. On the other hand, we requested the division to continue with works of inspection, as well as from the inheritances of the land, and as a spectacle, to resume the right and duty which the regulations of education are acknowledged to the persons who form the command of education. And finally, we asked the department to guarantee the right and freedom of families in an efficient manner to choose the college and education project they want for their children, but we all know that this liberty requires limits in all the schools where there is need to calm them. Following control, there is no financial control here, and it's not true. As everyone who uses public money ought to do, the Board of Education controls the public money. Therefore, regulations, inspection, guarantees, rights and obligations, these are the pillars that define the content of our amendment as a whole and for which we call for your vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u104	Thank you, Mrs. News. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u105	Mila esker, andrea president. Mrs Berriozabal, you complain that everything is being talked about here, and you have come to remove it. That the other 50% of the system, what? Well, make sure you're free, as your law says. We have come here to say that the law is only enforced. You are content to continue to inspect, when that inspection is not enough. And we ask that an evaluation be carried out and that more be inspected and that families be informed, because today, and with the case that Mrs Ubera has said, it is shown that families do not know their rights, and they do not know that the compulsory quotas with which they are faced when they arrive at a concerted centre – yes, concerted or private subsidized, which is exactly the same – do not know their rights. And it turns out that these centers should be free of charge. And we are today in that debate, in the gratuitousness of one network and the other. That's what we came to say. I too have approached a concerted center and I have been told that by enrolling my child in Infantil they charge me 95.29 euros a month. They also tell me that if you are a baccalaureate – baccalaureate, that the concertation in baccalaureate, I thought you couldn't – they are arranged, but they have to charge 137,41; and they also tell me that for dining 127, and they tell me that for the morning room 89. And they also tell me that I have complementary services, which you mentioned, of 60 euros a year. Make the sum and tell me if your school, the concerted school, guarantees access to all students and on equal opportunity. Tell me which families can access these centres on an equal basis. You know that today Mr Urtaran has presented a report in Gasteiz where it is said that the socio-economic gap between the concerted and the public is growing. Tell me how you eat that, please! Mr. Pastor, of course politics is an opportunity! Do you know why we stopped this initiative? Because here we came to discuss an ILP. Do you remember that ILP? That is why we stopped that initiative, so as not to cover up a popular legislative initiative. And today we agree: politics is opportunity. Look, it's said that we want to make the concerted school disappear, when all we're saying is that families who access the concerted network have free education. That's what we came here to say today. I don't know why they're trying to put us in opposition to a school. Do we defend the public? Yeah. Proud of the public, I say it again. It does not mean that we come to demand that the families who access the concertee have their studies free of charge, which is why it is subsidized, we talk about law enforcement in both networks, in both networks. Mrs Bengoechea, do you agree that all compulsory education covered by public money must be free of charge? Well, I'll vote on our amendment, please. It is not a mantra the free choice of center. It's a panacea, it's a panacea that you sell, when it's not true. All families in Euskadi cannot have equal access to school. They can access the public school, which really guarantees social cohesion, but not the concerted school, where I have already mentioned the fees that are charged. I mean, let's not come and cheat, because that's what you're trying to do. We defend public education, indeed, because it is the only one that guarantees equal opportunities. We are not against anyone, we are in favour of all students enjoying quality and free education. Only! And they strive to talk about public service when they talk about the school agreed to be subsidized, when it isn't, because the public service, I'm going to tell you, has to be free, has to be universal and not confessional. And the concerted school today does not guarantee that to the Euskadi student, and that is why we advocate here today that the law will be complied with and that the concerted school will also be free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u107	Look, Mrs. The Newer, it can serve as Dialectic as it is, but reality eliminates dialectic, reality undresses the department of education, and this is not serious. It's not serious, and I think it's surrealistic that you have to ask this Chamber to comply with the law; it's not serious that the Board of Education isn't doing its job; it's not serious that this government doesn't obey its work. It's not serious because we can discuss it between ourselves in this bubble, but then you go back to reality and reality is very crude, and there is something that is always happening with objective data. And the day goes by saying that the Board of Education does not fulfill the law, and that we ourselves are responsible for public offices, we are the guardians of the law to execute the laws which have been given us, and that we are incapable of doing them. It is natural not to know the rights of citizens, is very natural; but what is not normal is that government, education, and the rights of which we are here are not capable of hindering the people, and of making them difficult, which is not normal, and that is what is happening. And today isn't a public education or an education Instruction, and it's not a collision, it's not. What we are asking here is for the execution of the law to be a free education, because in this way, when education is free, a right will be equalized, education will fulfil its function, it will establish all the citizens equal, and its function will be able to fulfil its whole. That's the only way, the only way that families can really choose and guarantee. And if not, we're cheating ourselves over and over again. And this isn't serious. And I feel sorry for him, I'm sorry for what he's spending on. We've got instruments at our disposal and we're not going to solve that. And I forgot: We've made a half-way, Mr. Pastor. We've made a medium, and in this medium we're not proposing new instruments. No, what we propose is to work with the instruments that exist, to perform the functions, to obey each other, not more nor less. Let each one do what he must, let him work, work, work. What are we here for? Work. The Board of Education has to do its work, the inspection has to do its job, the plateholder has to do his job, what they don't do, what they don't do. When we come to it, the law must be fulfilled, when it's not convenient, there's an interpretation, another. And not only with glasses: everything with everything! And in the meantime, who do they suffer? Schools, teachers, school directors, parents, everyday! They're suffering our caprice. And in the meantime, who's a loser? All of us. A whole society. And then, in our discourses, cohesion, equality, advanced society. Bullshit! All lies! We're cheating on ourselves. We're cheating on ourselves. And finally, three questions, serious questions: Why pay when education is free? One. Two: Why does the administration, in front of hairness, look the other way? Why? Why this government, this Board of Education, insists. 19th keeping the educational system of the century, see what the results seem? Why? Why do we not work with all these cracks, and begin to anticipate the measures? Why not? It's in our hands. It's in our hands. And there will be discords, but there will be agreements, so let's do something, won't we? This town doesn't deserve this Board of Education. What have we done to have this Board of Education? Por Dios! Por Dios! [[Berber]] In the meantime, let's go to the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselor. Well, let's see, we, of course, what we're not going to start doing is blaming anyone when they bring in or when they stop bringing in an initiative. For one reason, because trying to kill the messenger gives the feeling that one is not very satisfied with his own arguments; then, "In case, we will kill the messenger." We're not even going to trial for intent. But what we are going to say is that no one will be able to say that this has not been a recurring issue for our group, which has always been present, that it has given me the impression that – at least to me, which is my responsibility for education – is that I have practically not talked about anything else. Look, we defend the concerted, of course, but also the public. We defend the whole system, the whole system. The thing is, it looks like no one else cares about the gig, just us. And I will prove it to you: in the Budgets we have always managed to increase the funding of the concerted to break that gap so unfair, that with the same obligations they have fewer rights. But in the same budgets that we have been negotiating there have been items for the public school and there will always be, and for the whole system. Now, I agree, it seems that the only ones who defend concerted education are us, and I mean we will continue to do so. Let's see, Mrs Macazaga, really, there are things that go beyond words, which are definitions, and subsidized private will never be the same as social initiative concerted, because the subsidized private is allowed to have benefits and not social initiative concerted. It's just that it's a concept problem, but, well, we're not gonna entertain ourselves in that. And you say to me: "Do you agree that concerted teaching is free?". Of course I do, everything. But, of course, I cannot vote for what you propose because that would mean not solving the problem. Because if you deprive the concerted of any economic contribution there will be a closure, because it will not be able to hold. That is why we, what we are talking about, are that in these modules, which have to deal with staff, infrastructure, current expenditure, etc., and so on, we need to achieve greater equity, greater equity, because we could not consider the one presented by the Government when they speak of the Government as mediator. No, the Government is neither mediator, nor rapporteur, nor any of that. The Government is a protagonist, it is a protagonist because the Government has an obligation, by the ruling of the Constitutional Court and even by its own regulations, such as the Regulation of the Concertation, to ensure the adequacy of the funding. And then you'll tell me, "Well, let's see, and what do we do? Do we take money from public school?". No way, no way! But what we do have to do is change our attitude. Look, you have a phrase that you're coming to repeat, I've heard it a lot in the last 20 days, which is a transformative look – I think it's one of the last mantras – a transformative look. Well, we'll have to take a transformative look at education as well and, first, pursue quality, quality is first, pursue excellence. To finance both networks, which are actually one, to finance both types of schooling sufficiently. And another thing that is very important to us, that is to work in specific education, in specific education, whether in the concerted social initiative, or in the public. There are creatures, there are children, there are girls whose education has to be specific and they probably need more resources, and we have to go there. And that's what we put forward, but, come on, we've been putting forward..., I, of course, since I've been here, and I hope that with consensus and a transformative look we can come to agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Pastor mustn't talk. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u111	Thank you, Chief. Mrs Macazaga, I want to share with you three figures: zero, the interest you have shown so far; one, a year since you presented the initiative; and 30, 30 ordinary plenary sessions in which you may have incorporated this initiative, but you have not. And they haven't because the only thing that interests them is the mess and the riot, because they're opportunists and the best scenario is always the "The worse, the better." There they stir well. And they say they're a plural and open party, not to say the most plural and open party, but it's hard to find parties with a narrower mentality than yours, because once again they've let all their phobias out here, because he talks to me about "my school," "his school." Do you know what "our school" is? The whole system. Everything. I'm in. It's not my school, it's not your school, it's not my school, it's not my school, it's not my school, it's not my school, it's not my school, it's not my school, it's not my school, it's not my school, it's not my school, The whole system, unlike what happens to you. But under these fobias and obsessions, you want to hurt the government, of course, by other agents. You're not alone in this racket, but you've forgotten that in this attempt to hurt the government you really give pain to the system, to the students and families. Because this obsession that you have, this short-term bias prevents you from seeing the damage that you are causing to the educational system, to families, to the student, by the hand of certain social agents. And I believe that our position on the initiative has been made clear in the first intervention: the inspection is already planned and is an ordinary activity of the Department of Education. With regard to other issues that have been mentioned, we remain committed to continuing to promote the work of territorial school offices, strengthening mechanisms to inform, guide, accompany and ensure balance in the enrolment process of students. We bet that the Education Administration continues to ensure that the right to free choice is guaranteed in the process of access and admission, safeguarding the principles of equity, educational inclusion and the promotion of social cohesion. And Mrs. Ubera asked: "But why don't they all go public? How is it possible? "Well, because it's their choice, because we live in a democracy. And he says "why." Well, why... Ask me, why, in your group, some freely take the way to the public, others freely, naturally, and without any difficulty, but at least do not question what the engagement of the rest is with the public school. I repeat: ours is the entire eupscal educational system, from top to bottom. As to financialness, we clearly must continue to improve the quality of the entire system of education, and continue to carry on more and more efficiently the management of the means which have led to education, always in the centre of the system. And in that sense, there will be several opportunities for you to show me whether you are defending the entire system in the next few months. And next Thursday we'll have an excellent chance. We will all show ourselves beyond the words at the third point in the subject list. Two things: The budget model of the Basque State University, 10 million dollars, and the economy module to deal with the expenses of the U.S. schools, 1980,000 dollars. Then we'll see who's on behalf of the educational system and who isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u112	Thank you, Mrs. News. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; white; 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u113	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u114	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u115	So, since it's a draw, we'll vote again. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u116	It's a draw, so we'll leave it for the next round meeting. The seventh point on the theme list: "M.a del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muntain de Muuntinka Popula, a member of the Society for re-acting energy in the Euscal Autonomy Ercire. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Miss Lopez de Octariz, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors. Ladies and gentlemen, I move the following motion, as a result of the interpellation that we presented in December to the Councilwoman, Mrs Tapia, on something very specific: measures by the Government to boost renewable energies. The Basque Government had announced almost from its inception the need to seek alternatives to fossil fuel-dependent energies, mainly oil in the 1980s. It set as basic objectives for Basque energy policy three principles, which were the energy saving and efficiency policy, diversifying energy sources with gas, as was done at the time, and developing renewable energies. Over these years, both the agreements at climate summits and the European directives and the commitments made by the Member States are conditioning our energy future. As the Autonomous Community, we have also committed ourselves to pooling efforts and implementing support measures to prioritize energy efficiency and enhance renewable energy. As the main international energy agencies have consistently demonstrated and repeated, a low-carbon economy is possible and must be based primarily on energy savings and efficiency, and on the deployment of renewable energy. We are committed as the Autonomous Community to our own rules already adopted, and, for example, we have the Basque Climate Change Strategy 2050, which was adopted in 2015, is relatively new and current, zero consumption, we are committed to zero oil consumption for energy uses in 2050, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 and by 80% by 2050; to renewable energy consumption by 40% of final consumption by 2050; we are committed to fully delinking ourselves from fossil fuels and zero net greenhouse gas emissions throughout this century through renewable energy as the only energy supply. That's what we said in the 2050 Strategy. The reality is that in the Basque Country our energy system is currently and mostly based on the use of fossil energy, between 80 and 90 %. And time is running out, and we're in 2019. And those dates, which seemed very far away to us when we put them on paper, are getting closer, and we don't move forward. Renewable energy accounts for a small percentage of the energy mix compared to the environment. The share of renewables reaches 7% of final energy consumption, 13 if we include imported renewable electricity. Wind energy is the energy with the highest renewable energy production capacity in the Basque Country; however, it accounts for only 6.9% of that 7% of the share of renewables implemented in the Basque Country. And, paradoxically, we are the headquarters of the leading wind generation industry, also photovoltaic, and we cannot implement it. Implant it as we do with other products, on kilometer 0. Listen, in our environment, much more sustainable, but we don't and there we are. A wind energy PTS was made in 2002 and a minimum part of it was developed. If 1,300 megawatts and 19 parks were planned, only 153 megawatts with four parks were implemented. The social rejection generated by this PTS forced it to suspend and start work for a new PTS. It was a PTS that was neither consensual with the administrations, nor with society, nor with many agents of the Basque Country. Therefore, at that point, a dry stop was made in the development of wind energy, as I told you, the one with the highest production potential in the Basque Country. Work on a new PTS has now resumed. And both the advisor and the vice-advisor told us: "It is the interest of the Basque Government to promote a pact between the different actors, parties, associations and institutions that will enable the development of renewable energies, particularly wind energy". Ararteko has also taken a stand and has also made a report saying that a great deal needs to be done to push forward the energy transition and renewable energy as an important element for that transition. This, in some ways, has already been unanimously adopted by this House in 2009: suspending the windfall PTS and enabling an interinstitutional and social consensus to be reached on the plans put in place. As I was telling you, ladies and gentlemen, this is 2019. It's been 10 years and we haven't made any progress. We, as a People's Group, are willing and committed to moving from theory to practice. Industry has advanced, as I told you, we have an industrial fabric around very powerful renewable energies. More than 350 companies have applied research, developing state-of-the-art products for the renewables sector. It has nothing to do with the product of 2009 and I believe that we are in a position, and it seems that the Government too, because, as I said, both the adviser and the vice-advisor announce it, are willing to work for a pact to boost renewable energies. We have made a motion in this regard, in which we say that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, once the initial analysis documents for the transition of the second Euskadi wind farm are drawn up, to begin work on the drafting of such a wind farm plan". We also call on the Basque Parliament to urge the Basque Government to integrate the second Euskadi wind energy PTS "... together with the planning of the deployment of other renewable energies within the Euskadi 2030 energy strategy, as a priority objective to increase the production and consumption of renewable energies in the Basque Country". We also call for work to be started to move forward on that pact. At this point we have reached an agreement with the groups supporting the Government and we have changed the initial wording; we say that the Basque Parliament states that, in parallel with the elaboration of the PTS for renewable energy, a pact must be reached on the energy transition that is supported in this House together with the Basque Government, the rest of the institutions and social partners, with the aim of ensuring the implementation of the agreements in this area. From the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, an amendment has been tabled in which I share many of the things that are said in that amendment, but I think it goes beyond the object of this initiative, of this motion. And as we will then have a much broader debate on the energy transition, we believed and thought it appropriate to leave these considerations which in some way brings us Elkarrekin Podemos and the impetus of the energy transition and the renewal of the 2030 energy strategy for that subsequent debate. We therefore believe that it is more appropriate, in line with many of these aspects, and so, with the spokesman, Mr Becerra, we have spoken about it and agreed on it in that way. As I was telling you, we were in 2009 when this House called for the suspension of the process and that we must advocate and work for an inter-institutional and social consensus on the implementation and implementation of these measures to boost renewable energies. This was also an agreement of the General Councils of Álava and also of the General Councils of Bizkaia, where there was also this debate because they were affected by the programming of the wind PTS at that time. And so, I think what we're doing is rebooting something that had to be done at the time and that wasn't done because, well, I think this has been somehow..., someone was saying to me, "He's been kidnapped"; somehow, he's been covered up and he hasn't been interested in moving forward. Now that it seems that the Government is talking about a pact, it is when from the People's Group we have considered that we must try. If we can, then we can do it. That is the compromise amendment that we have managed to put before this House, and I would like to count on the support of all of you. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u119	Thank you, Mrs. President. President, chief physician, good afternoon to all. Mrs López de Ocariz is right that our amendment in this debate goes beyond what you were bringing. You have brought a proposal aimed at boosting and planning the development of renewable energies. That debate is interesting, but our group considers it a politically outmoded debate. Overtaken, because all the groups in this House today have assumed that renewable energies are not the future, but the present. The question today is no longer how to develop renewable energy but what to develop renewable energy: whether we develop renewable energy to maintain the energy model that has prevailed so far or whether we develop it for a new energy model that is more efficient, fairer, more supportive and more democratic. It is plain, therefore, that it is the time for pure energy to develop: on the one hand they will not increase the climate change, and on the other they will not be exhausted like oil or gas, and thirdly because they are cheaper than dirt; for instance, pure energy is now cheaper than nuclear. The power itself has seen it, the economic power has seen it, and the political power has seen it. And that's why the economic power has moved institutions to develop clean energy. It's late, but we can see that development. But the point is, for what purpose pure energy will be developed, for whom or for whose sake, to preserve the pattern we have, or to develop another pattern, lasting, just, and democratic. That's the point, that's the political discussion. The political debate, as I say, is no longer whether to make an energy transition. The government itself is talking about energy transition today, as two years ago we could speak of Mr Otero and myself. Nor is it if we have to change the planning, the energy strategy of the Government. The Government itself assumes in this transaction that it signs with its group that, in fact, strategic energy planning is completely obsolete. The debate is not whether we need clean energies either. To this day, clean energies are the only future we have left if we are to face climate change. And not only are they the future, but they are the present. I have here a report, made by Greenpeace, regarding the needs of Euskadi and Navarra, and Greenpeace said a few years ago: "The capacity to generate electricity with renewable sources is far superior to demand, and allows us to ask ourselves the theoretical possibility of covering all energy demands, not just electricity, in 2050." That clean energies are an alternative is a reality. Already in April 2018, most clean energy, renewable energy, has a much lower price than dirty energy, and much lower than nuclear energy, which was thought to be something that could not happen so easily. Between 2010 and 2018, clean energy, on average, has reduced its price by 80%. Therefore, the debate is no longer, as I say, whether we need to develop clean energy, renewable energy, but for what, to maintain the current model, an inefficient, unfair, insolidary or expensive model, or if we develop them for a more efficient, fairer and more democratic model. This is not the time to hold this debate – I share with you, Mrs López de Ocariz – and I do thank you for your proposal, your proposal and your motion in this case. I appreciate that, but I have a number of issues to say. Obviously, in the face of a proposal and a compromise such as the one we have reached, our group is not going to oppose it, but we are going to abstain. We are going to abstain, first of all, because the Sectoral Territorial Wind Energy Plan is mentioned. As you have said, the Government has spent 10 years with that plan in a drawer, with that plan kidnapped. Kidnapped, literally, because our group, nothing more to come to this Parliament, the first thing he asked was for the reports of that PTS. We were told that there were no reports. We asked them again, we were told that they did not exist. Well, in the end it had to be a citizen who discovered those reports, the reports that supported this PTS, in a drawer. And those reports said that Euskadi has a wind power generation capacity of 9,000 megawatts, capable of generating 2,300 jobs. And my question is why the government, for 10 years, knowing the potential of wind power, kept these reports in a drawer and even denied them to the opposition. This means that the Government has never really intended to develop wind power or renewable energy until economic power has found them profitable enough to start investing in it. That is why we cannot support this proposal, because it is short. And we are also cut short because in two or three weeks the law of energy sustainability will come here. We are going to approve it by all groups, and in that law, on the initiative of EH Bildu, there will be a provision that will establish the need to approve a renewable energy PTS that will subsume, will encompass the wind energy PTS. And, therefore, although it is a commendable initiative of yours, in two or three weeks it will become obsolete. What interests us is the third of the points. That's where he talks about a country pact. It speaks of a country pact for energy, for the energy transition. That is where we will hold this debate and that is where we will have to see if the country pact is going to do it to maintain the current model or to move towards a model, as I say, more efficient, more sustainable, more just and more democratic. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u120	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u121	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. To start with the last part, Mr Becerra, it is true that when the PTS of wind energy comes, it is true that it has been a long time since we started talking about this in Euskadi, but it is also fair to tell the whole thing. In Euskadi there has been a problem with the implementation of wind energy. It was raised at the General Councils during many legislatures the possibility of setting up parks that develop wind energy, because, as Mrs López de Ocariz said, it is a little inconsistent that we should be the model Autonomous Community in which others are looked and that we also export the development of wind energy; but we will have to admit that whenever this has been attempted in Euskadi there has been a political sham, platforms that were put in the front line, a pressure on the political parties that were defending the setting up of wind energy, which have caused it to stop for a long time. It is not that a government – as if Mr Urkullu's government today or in 2009 Mr Patxi López – had that, it did not get into a drawer, it has not been forgotten, it is not that it did not want to develop, but it will have to be recognized that the political conditions were not the best. Because here there are some that we have been in politics for many years and, indeed, putting this kind of energy into operation has been practically impossible: first, because there was a confrontation of those who believed that the landscape was spoiled, that it was spoiled when in Andalusia they boasted of it; there was also one who said that there was an animal, a beast that nobody knows if it was or was not, but it seemed that it had been, and then, in case, it could not be put; and apart from that, organized and orchestrated platforms that prevented that from developing. And "Of those muds, these muds." And you said that the debate is over. I believe that what is overcome is that we talk, talk and always talk about the same thing, but that in this, being the energy of the present – or that should be of the present – what is missing are real investments that make that beyond political discourses, that endure everything, and of each of our electoral programs, the time of truth comes and this can be put into motion. It is true that the Basque companies that develop this type of energy are, as I say, leading and exporting not only to the rest of Spain but outside Spain, but I believe that in Basque we should stop talking a little about this so that, in fact, it is the present. I share with you that for me the most interesting part of the agreement we have reached with the People's Parliamentary Group is the pact, which seems to be a country energy pact. I believe that this is something that will be discussed in the coming weeks on the proposal of EH Bildu, which may end up collecting the content of this agreement within something much more global, which I believe is the initiative that Mr Otero is proposing and which I believe we will have an opportunity to discuss. I share with Mrs López de Ocariz the need to talk about an alternative energy policy. As I say, I think we have spent too much time talking in the gallery about what some of us would propose to do through strategies, through PTS, even some bills that have come to this House, but then it is true that they have not materialized in the form of real investments. Because when we say that renewable energy is the energy of the present, with those percentages that we all know and that Mrs López de Ocariz has told us, I think that at least we should be blushing a little, since we do not even reach the limits that have been set for us in some of the European directives; therefore, I believe that this is a debate that we will be discussing in the coming weeks and that we will be able to go much deeper into it. I recognize the importance of the People's Group's initiative – and I hope that wind energy was already a reality without waiting to understand that fossil energy has to end and that we have to look ahead – of those Basque companies, which are supported outside but, of course, supported within much more than I believe has been done to them, and then, of course, the Socialist Party will work for a country energy pact that, in the end, will bring out of the political debate the sham that exists with the energy issue and that we are all part of the agreement, regardless of who governs, marking a road map of what this country's energy policy has to be. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u122	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u123	Thank you, Mrs. President. President, Chief, congressmans. We are faced with a motion that is going to be ephemeral in time, not because it is not important or without political burden, but because, in the opinion of our group, it has a very marked lapse; on the one hand, because, on the one hand, all the analysis documents mentioned in point number one of the motion will be available in the coming months to fulfil all the legal obligations that the Department of Economic Development has to carry out, together with that of Land Management and Environment; on the other hand, the sustainability law that we are expected to vote on – presumably we will approve it among all in two weeks – already surpasses this approach of a PTS aimed only at increasing the capacity to generate renewable energy, only wind energy. The second point of this motion, which urges the Government to integrate wind generation with other renewables, will be – through this law I say, I quote – an obligation and a reality by adding the development of other renewable energies, together within the framework of a single PTS, as Councilwoman Tapia herself advanced on 14 December. Finally, also Councilwoman Tapia, on 14 December, in her reply to the question that gave rise to this motion, proposed – and this perhaps ties in with the approaches that those who preceded me in the use of the word have used so far, with what we have to do without delay – that, in parallel to further developing what we have marked in the law in terms of savings, in terms of efficiency, in terms of the development, in this case, of the Territorial Sectoral Renewable Energy Plan, we believe, we are convinced that we must open up a way of working in which the political agreement, first between us, the groups that we are part of this House, the interinstitutional and social agreement is somehow incorporated into energy policy. I fully agree with what Mrs Red said: I do not believe that the 2nd Sectoral Territorial Wind Energy Plan has been buried in some drawer by the wish of one or another government, that is, there is no more to do a review of the hemerotec of recent years to see that not always wanting is power. We're all going to work together, we're going to try to move on, but we're not going to forget what happened. We need to know that this territorial plan has not come out so far because it has raised enough problems for all the governments that have passed to raise their non-implementation, precisely because there was no consensus in this House, because there was no willingness to carry it forward. If now – and I understand it from what I hear from all the speakers, from all the speakers – that time has come, if we all agree to do that which is being called a country agreement around the energy model, that which has been requesting both the lehendakari and the Tapia councilwoman on countless occasions and to which we have subsequently been adding all, in the end, will be the time to swell his tooth. That is what we proposed in our amendment to the whole, that we must be aware that the real viability and effectiveness of a document like this, such as a renewable energy PTS, requires an entity consensus to materialise it, which is precisely what has not been given so far. And that is why I would like to reiterate from this rostrum that country pact to which all of you have referred, but above all the need for us all to face up to this transition to a new energy model that will guarantee from the interinstitutional agreement – starting with us, as I say – and also the social implementation of the agreements that can be given in this area. That is, if we all really want to, we should be able to shift the consensus that we have reached in the sustainability law to the rest of the legs that have to subject that transition to a new energy model. In the original initiative, the Government was strictly required to begin work for this popular alliance, and we, as I have already said, do not agree with this plan. We think that if we're all on our side it's like that, we'll have to work on this job ourselves. If we're all able to make a deal, if we make the foundations, then we'll be able to make fun and all the other organizations along the same road with us, and the other institutions and, of course, society as well. This is our purpose, which is to be done, or, as we believe, to be carried on from now on, and which we shall do on our side. There's nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u124	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u125	Yes, good afternoon to all. Well, it seems to me, Mrs. lópez de Ocáriz, that we spoke of similar concerns in the last check we did in December. We both did an interaction and both of us expressed concern about energy. I think it's a general concern, which, as I said here, is shared. You made a motion after that. We've given the account a few more turns, and we've made a proposition just like ourselves, and we've done it in order to set up the foundations of a town in the neighborhood of energy or of a Middle Ages, haven't we? It seems to us that this is why we're going to spend our days in August, this initiative you've introduced here, without having any bad initiative, I think it's in general.... I shall be glad if he goes on, though we have recourse to abstinence, but it seems to me that we must appeal to abstinence because the substance of the discussion we propose is much more important, and this is part of the other. I think we've all got to realize that these years have gone by and come, that we're face to face the discussion, that we're face to face a very fat business, that we're facing a challenge of civilization, and that the whole of this transition and the change of climate must take a political level, and that we must place it between the priorities. So this discussion will come back to the next two weeks, and the dispute of the law of myrgetic suffering will probably come again, next time we will continue to discuss and continue the discussion of the grounds of our national tradition, but here, when you make your proposal, it seems to me, that when you make a humppie, when you ask it, it is important to say why and for what reason all this is done, because we often sleep and think it may be thought possible to use it again. Here are two factors, very important, as I said: this sensation of necessity and necessity for the climateal change, I think, is generally general; and the other, that this appearance of climate change is produced by the burning of fossil resources. Not only because we are conscious that fossil resources, coal, oil, and gas are as fine as fossil resources, and that they will cease at some time, so that we may either be a climate change or not be left before they leave us. It seems to me that, even here, the Chinese is spoken a little, that time is lost, that the guilty are guilty. The time has been lost and our modern neurotic situation is very clearly in the wrong place and also in the number of our climate change. I'm not going to repeat them, but it's also obvious that our climate challenge and our climateal aims are not filling, that our gas leaks have been very small, and that it has gone up the hill again for the last two years, and that this is very disturbing, isn't it? So, and with what you've just said in the flesh, or on the points of your proposals, I'll only say a few things in detail, and I think we've seen you in other discussions, not just the Poptular, but you personally, with the power of the wind and the eolicical energy. It seems to us that, on that account, we introduced the amendment into the law of the Myrgetic capacity, the bet of making the cultural plan of the land-country, and it was admitted that it is not only because we can put together the amount of eolical energy we can put and put it where we can, but if we have to make our whole transition to be uncooled, with the photostatic energy, with the bio-gema, and with all the energy that brings with it, and with it all that we need to make a more integration with it, and that we must make a whole political plan, and that we must not come to see the social agreement. So it seems to me that when we accepted the dictation last Tuesday, the law that will come in two weeks from here, that transcends the proposition that came here, though, as I have said, there is no opposition to it. And here, too, when 2030's Aggregical strategy is mentioned, it seems to us that there must be a review of the whole strategy, and not of the Eolictic energy, but that this strategy must be given to the labours, or therefore, which Europe has put together, and which, I think, must change too; And, of course, when we talk about the agreement or the popular tradition, I think we are more agents who are talking about a real nationality of energy, we've talked about it over and over again, we've made a proposal, we've made a definite method, we've put a method on the table, and it seems to us that this is the way. And, well, because of the sensations I have, and the discussions we're having, it seems to us, we're all going to make a certain effort, and we're going to correct the beginning of this process, though I can tell you now that neither one of you, or any of us, has a whole globally integrated plan, because the challenge we're going to stand before us is, as we said, terrible, and that it transcends the energy area in a very clear way. I mean, we'll have to touch the motion, we'll have to touch the city's industry, we'll have to touch the industry policy, we'll have to touch everything to make a real energy transition, because our whole economy is now moving through fossil resources. And to finish it, and even to invite him to the discussion he'll be in a few weeks' time, I wanted to say something, and I want to take advantage of Mr. President's presence. You seem to me here, and in the last few weeks, but generally, you're going away, you're talking about the Middle Ages of the Middle Ages, when you introduced the project yourself to the East, you spoke with a popular authority, and you're talking about the country spirit that you've been describing lately? I had a note: This discussion is very profound; it seems to me that Mr. Becerra, too, has made a quarrel. It is true, we are very fond of the neighbourhood, of the neighbourhood, but we must be convinced that the spirit of the neighbourhood is the spirit of the country, that it is an intentionless undertaking; or that, if we have any gain, we must have the advantage of all. Hence it is very important that when we place things in the parameters of the neighbourhood, it must be a collective gain, and not a particular or a few gain. I believe that if we place ourselves well in these parameters, we shall be able to make a vast stock of energy, but we must consider, as our project was introduced in Equian, that we must induce all the popular and popular members of the community, for this will exercise a very profound influence upon the lives of the people. I also agree with this spirit of the neighbourhood, and, as I say, with greater accuracy, we shall discuss what this popular doctrine of energy consists, or what it is for us to do, our proposition will soon come.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u126	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over to the answering shift, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u127	Well, first of all, I would like to thank all the groups (one in the form of an affirmative vote and one with abstention) for their support for the initiative. And I just want to point out one thing: Mr Becerra said that clean energies are the present. The theory of clean energies in the Basque Autonomous Community is present; the application is future, it will be future, because the numbers give and here we have not been able to develop the application. So, we're in theory, as we were in 2009; so that's what we want, and for that application we need the pact. So, I think we're in reality. It seems to me very well to theorize, philosophy, which is the model, which is going to be... We'll see about that. But implementation is not a reality because we do not agree and because the application of renewable energies has led to confrontation, and that is where we are, right? The law says that in two years we will have a renewable energy PTS. Yes, Mr. Grajales, two years, two years with a transit, a transit from another legislature in two years. So, hopefully in two years' time we can say that we do not have to present an initiative in this House to ask about this PTS. Because the normal thing is that these deadlines are extended, and more so when there is a period of elections in the meantime. Therefore, Mr.Gajales, virtuality, has it – of course it has it! – has it. I mean, "No, it's virtual, it falls in a week." No, no, Virtuality has it. And the problem, as I told you, has never been in theory, we have always coincided in theory, in 2009 we had a unanimous agreement of this House, and here we are, as then. I would like us all to live up to the circumstances, that we could reach that agreement and that we were responsible, both in theory and in practice, and then we can be useful to this society and have a development of renewable energies as they have in our environment, because nothing, 60 km away, let's look where we look; therefore, we will have to learn something. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u129	Well, indeed, Mrs López de Ocariz, you are right that renewable energies are not the present here in Euskadi. But they are not because of a lack of a pact, but because of a lack of political will. Because you said that here in 2009 a unanimous agreement was reached. Our group was not, but then, if there was that unanimous agreement, why didn't it develop? For lack of political will. I do not have the excuse that Mrs Red says of the opposition. There will have been opposition to some wind farms; there has also been opposition to the high-speed train, and where are we with the high-speed train? Has there been a problem with the high-speed train to get it through? What has happened is political will. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u131	And on the subject of renewables there has been no such political will. And when M. Grivores speaks of a pact, he must consider that three columns of transition must be myrgetic: On the one hand, the consciousness of energy, and in this we have come to a pact, and we will draw up a new law. In this we have seen political wills in order to improve the law, and compact, to sign a treaty, but two other columns are missing: it is the development of pure energy, and the third, of fossil energy. Shall we see political will in them? That's the point, that's the point. The windfall PTS, which is about what is ultimately discussed today, had a review, and two reports were made in that review. A citizen requested these reports on July 21, 2016, they were asked by the EVE, they were asked by the department. They didn't exist. Advance document of the II PTS of Wind Energy of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, carried out by the companies ARC, Aitasa and Ereda; environmental sustainability report of the II PTS of Wind Energy of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, carried out by ARC Environmental Consulting. They didn't get them. They told them they didn't exist. When this group arrived here, they were asked twice, twice. They didn't exist. Repeat, they were in a drawer, they were in a drawer. They were given when another citizen, asking for them for Irekia, accidentally found them on May 9, 2018. Well, just a month later, the Deputy Industry Advisor appears and says, "The Basque Government proposes a great deal to boost wind power." What a coincidence, just a month after the two lost reports of the second PTS review appeared! I repeat, whether there is a country pact on energy is a matter of political will, and the key now is whether or not there will be one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u132	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Mr. Geaters, yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. In short, from my request, to show myself alone, I think Madame de Ocerin has completely misunderstood me. And I cannot quote myself exactly – you can refer to the Journal of Sessions – because the only thing I have are notes, but for the record, I have not said that this motion is not important and that it lacks political burden, but quite the opposite. I have said that it will be ephemeral in time because it has two temporal limits, such as the analysis documents, which are required in point number one, and the law that we are going to pass in two weeks, which already obliges the government to develop a renewable energy PTS, not just wind energy. But I said that it was important and that it had its political burden. And on the other hand, very briefly also to thank Professor Becerra for the teaching class that he has given me, but also, if you don't mind, I say "If we want, we must be able to transfer the consensus that we have reached in the law of sustainability to the rest of the legs that subject the energy transition". I understand that the teacher suspends me for not having cited them, but he will understand that the legs are the same for you and for me, and that our will for consensus encompasses everything that is the transition to a new energy model, in which, as I say, I hope that we will be able among all of us to reach an agreement through which we can then attract the Government, the rest of the institutions and also society. That's all, thank you, Chief of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u134	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque Popular Groups, the Basque Socialists, and the middle-class correction that the Eunciists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-07.u135	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was six o'clock in the afternoon.
