ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Preceding theme: "The Moment, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Ostero Galirdo EH gatherings, concerning the fulfilment of the ends of the intelligible law of patience. With respect to the motive, to decide once and for all the drawings of the whole November 28 party, following the 92.1 article of the ruler." It was a draw in the vote of the universal corrections introduced by the Euubertist and the Sociialist Basque Society together. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we'll go back to the vote of that correction. Look at the tickets, everyone, please. Before we start, please. So we can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters of the city, 36; the contrary, 35; the Abstations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u1	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. First point in theme list: "Provide the other proposal as a parlamentary team, in order to examine the prices for the victims of Fancism. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Azuga, representing the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend. azuga Gumulation We participated in an event yesterday at the Carlton Hotel, Bilbo. The confession was given to a woman who had worked at the base and in the back of the army seven soldiers. They were all over 100 years old. As the organizer said, "That's what's ripe for the love and protection given by their families." I agree: their families have protected them, their love has been given them. But I'm not so sure whether the institutions have dedicated such love and protection. In this speech there was a complimentary word, which was presented to them with sticks of honour, a compliment, and we took pictures of them... It was a truly touching event to deny, and we all placed on the table the contribution of these militiamen for freedom, justice, and democracy. But I missed something. In fact, we confess, but we don't jump to look at it. We all assume that acceptance, we confess, but we are seldom careful to observe it. They were held by the militiamen, the militiamen, the wrestlers against Frichism, and they performed their part, but I doubt whether the institutions had fulfilled their part, whether they were satisfied. Indeed, we recognize the victims of Francoism, the anti-fascist fighters, no doubt, usually, and we will do more. However, I wonder if we give them the repair they deserve. I wonder how we make the leap from recognition to reparation, and for that they have to be with measures. International legislation gives us some clues, offers us some tools on how to give reparation to the victims, in this case of Francoism. First, access to justice, specifically mentioning judicial and administrative mechanisms. Secondly, the right to fair treatment including measures to minimize the effects of the violation; to protect its dignity, identity and security. Third, the right to material, medical, social, educational and psychological assistance as necessary. Fourthly, the right to restoration and compensation, which shall include the return of property or payment for the damage or loss suffered, which shall be compensated by the State whose officials or agents have been responsible for the damage caused. Fifthly, the right to compensation: States shall compensate victims of the crime against humanity who have suffered significant bodily harm or damage to their physical or mental health, their family or those in charge. In the light of these demands, I would sincerely say that the institutions still have a long way to go to bring reparation, reparation, restoration, compensation to the victims of Francoism and to introduce these measures into the law. We had an initiative that sought to move forward on this path. To that end, we asked for a previous report so that this Parliament could discuss this issue, let us know what we are dealing with, what measures have been put in place, what the ground has been limited, what has been done and what measures of reparation should be introduced into the law for what remains to be done. As I said, an organization has many ways of observing it, but I think it's the most powerful thing to do, in a way, to give indemnization. To accept the responsibility, to take the responsibility of the charges caused, to ask some pardon, the most effective instrument of a public institution, in my eyes, is to compensate for the damages. Then it will be the question of the victims whether they accept it or not, it will be their right, but in any case they must be offered. And now we must conclude that such things are not given to them. There have been initiatives of compensation and reparation for the victims of Francoism in the past, it cannot be denied. There have been experiences, they have been partial, they have been fragmentary, they have probably been insufficient, but what we cannot ignore is that these measures have been taken and that we now need to complement, develop and expand them. Thus were the so-called decrees Madrazo Decree 280/2002, on compensation to those who suffered deprivation of liberty for alleged purposes of the Amnesty Act Decree 22/2006, establishing provisions for the financial compensation of persons deprived of their liberty, including the suffering in Battalions Disciplinaries of Workers Soldiers Decree 107/2012, on the declaration and reparation of victims of unjust suffering as a result of the violation of their human rights, produced between 1960 and 1978 in the context of violence of violence of political motivation experienced in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country All these decrees have compensation bars, all incorporate economic compensation tables. But, more importantly: there are other laws that recognize other victims, coincident in the time period to which the future The law of historical memory that we will raise will be referred to. And those other laws for those other victims also incorporate compensation tables. Law 29/2011 on the recognition and comprehensive protection of victims of terrorism Law 12/2016 on the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations in the context of politically motivated violence in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country between 1978 and 1999 According to the draft that has been brought to us, article 12 speaks of "Reparation measures", and we read: "Gogora will analyse as a remedy" - it will analyze - "the set of compensation measures of an economic nature, aimed at the victims, and recognized in both the state and the autonomous regulations, to" - already, if possible - "evaluate in the Gogora Board of Directors the relevance and feasibility of supplementary compensation...". A camouflaged analysis Let's see what is the additional provision invoked: "... a technical commission shall be appointed which, within one year of the entry into force of this Law, shall submit a study describing the set of economic reparation measures for victims..." I asked for the progress of that report, to be brought forward, to analyse that report and to see the recommendations that were being transferred to us, to install those reparation measures in the law that we are going to discuss in this Parliament – more or less as is done in other laws – but I found myself, with surprise, that a request as minimal, as basic as the one I was making will be denied. The debate, then, will take place after bringing the law. Where? In Gogora, at the Gogora Board of Directors. Why is Parliament going to be robbed of the debate on these measures and why is it then taken to the Gogora Board of Directors? To leave it under Gogora's whim? Perhaps because the composition of the Gogora Board of Directors is overwhelmingly favourable to the government and the parties that support it? Are they going to bring in a law that is supposed to offer recognition and redress to the victims of Francoism and mutilate their debate in this Parliament, so that later in another body, in another council, in another committee, something may be decided? Do you think that there can be a debate on a law and leave the crucial question of reparation measures for decree? Are you really going to bring a law in order not to establish a remedy? He said that the law, that draft that is brought to us, has no ambition, but now I realize that this law is more empty, impossible. Empty set. Circle, bar, zero. I wanted to save time with this team. It's true. The procedure of doing this law started from 2017, in September, when Podemos first brought in the bill of law, and then another bill of law was thrown back, and then an ILP, which the platform brought back. It took us two years to get PNV to admit that PNV needs a law to burn and observe the victims of historical memory and flannelism. From now on, what do we have from one point of view of time? One, it'll take a year to bring it to the editors and to bring it to the parliament with all the technical reports. Another year, let's spend two years for the transfer we have to do here. Let the experts make a report on these precautions for another year. And let's give another year to decide whether or not one is taking precautions with these recommendations. Five years. Since we started for two years, but from now on, it comes with a five-year planning plan. Do victims have time to wait five years? Those victims we credited yesterday, who have over 100 years of age, could wait five years to take some notice of it? Well, I think, if there's at least one victim in need, we can't wait another five years. EH Bildu brought a bill that emphasized the recognition and reparation of victims. The name of that proposal was "Proposal for a Basque law of historical memory for the recognition and comprehensive reparation of the victims of Francoism". You, gentlemen of the PNV, bring us a law of memory, I would say of bad memory I see more and more clearly that this law is not to recognize and repair anything, but to hinder the path of those who want, of those who want recognition and reparation for these victims. A law brought with unwillingness and without contents; an empty law without any ambition. Today we were only asking for an analysis, a preliminary report from some experts on the compensations made and what should be done. We called for that report to better guide our legislative debate, we called for it to save time. None of this is going to be granted. We thought it was a reasonable initiative, but today this initiative is going to be brought to the fore. However, I think it has been worth bringing this debate, even if it is only to reveal that this report really is an excuse, and what is really wanted is to steal the debate in this Parliament and in Gogora, I do not know what committee I do not know which direction, to avoid intense measures of reparation to the victims who fought against fascism, who fought against fascism. I simply find it unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u2	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u3	Thank you, President. Good morning, lehendakari. Sailburuok, representatives of associations and memorial platforms, ladies and gentlemen, egun on guztioi. Well, indeed, and as you will recall, on 17 October, just over a month and a half ago, we had a resultant debate in this House, from which the majority of this Parliament was involved in the processing of an integral law of Basque historical and democratic memory. A law that, within the parameters of the legal system and the existing competition framework, aims to consolidate and give legal certainty to all the important work carried out and promoted in Euskadi in recent years, and whose objective is to regulate all public policies under articles 9 and 10.19 of our Statute of Autonomy, in order to promote moral reparation and the recovery of the personal and family memory of those who suffered persecution or violence for political, ideological or religious reasons during the Civil War and the dictatorship. It also seeks to promote democratic values and principles, facilitating knowledge of the facts and circumstances that occurred during the period of the Civil War, the Franco dictatorship and the transition to democracy. I do not want to fail to point out all the work done so far, by the way, in close cooperation between the Basque institutions, the memorialist associations, the families of the victims of the Civil War and Francoism, and all this with the addition of the special social sensitivity of Basque citizens and the political consensus on this issue. And this is one of the basic elements, it is the first basic element: the greatest consensus. A consensus that is not only possible, but must be possible to have good law and also to avoid possible competing remedies. Ladies and gentlemen, only through an instrument that integrates all the policies and rights that are required in the matter of historical memory can the right to know the truth be satisfied, can the search and clarification of the acts of violence or persecution suffered by many Basques and many Basques be satisfied. And so, too, only the right to full and effective reparation for the damage suffered can be fulfilled. I'm sure everyone in this forum shares that we don't start from scratch, that we don't start from scratch. And this should be remembered – Mr Arzuaga has done so too – because it is very important, because, indeed and certainly, the Basque Government, the outlaws, the municipalities, organised civil society and the families of the victims of the Civil War and Francoism – all in command Therefore, and in this way, the project takes into account both the state regulatory framework – initiated at the time, as I reminded you a month and a half ago, with the law of the Socialist Government of Spain of the year 2007 – as well as the actions for its development and the legislation itself adopted in this House, which also led, with the maximum consensus, to the creation of Gogora in 2014 in order to deploy a comprehensive legislative framework. Therefore, I repeat, I insist, it is fair to recall the experience of Basque institutions, protagonists of different and multiple initiatives of public policies of memory. The text will include, as it cannot otherwise be, all the contributions of the associations and memorial platforms which, as Mr Arzuaga quite rightly said, cannot actually do our work, cannot submit amendments, but all these contributions are being taken into account for the text that is to be brought to this Parliament. And the work of the parliamentary groups, our work, ladies and gentlemen, is to agree on the best text. This is where the original text can be amended and therefore include, by means of amendments, any positions which require the necessary majority. So, Mr Arzuaga, I would suggest that you do not take away or minimize the work of this Parliament. In any case, we have always said, and we share most of it, that it is necessary to complete everything that requires recognition and reparation for these victims. It is necessary to culminate this for the recognition, reparation, the right to truth, memory and justice of all those people killed, enslaved, persecuted by the hands of the Franco dictatorship, who, moreover, were intended to bury in the infamous oblivion of the cunets. Today, I insist again, the victims of the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship know, they have record that we will have a law. They know that there is a determination to at least a very large majority of this House to culminate in an integral Basque law that complements the state, from the conviction of everyone that we owe it to those who gave it everything and lost everything to preserve freedom and democracy. And that said, because we have to say it, and already entering into the initiative we are debating today, Mr Arzuaga proposes that something is missing from this law, that no measures of economic reparation are laid down. And that is not true, because he himself has pointed out that the law – specifically article 12 and the reference to the first additional provision of that law – provides for the measures of reparation of an economic nature, ordering this report to analyse all those measures of reparation of an economic nature recognized both in the state legislation, which he has pointed out and listed, and in the autonomous one, in order to assess the relevance and feasibility of supplementary compensations and to proceed, where appropriate, to its proposal and implementation. It does not seem reasonable to pretend that... to condition a legislative debate in the process of the law with an issue that is provided for in the law itself. We will have to see if we change the processing process, but what is important is to seek the necessary consensus of what I spoke of before and what we have to say, and I believe that we all share that, which is one of the signs of identity of all the policies of memory in our country. We're talking about a comprehensive law. And Mr Arzuaga's report is very important to us, but there are a number of nuclear issues apart from economic compensation. I'm just talking about victim care, memory, dignity, exhumations, graves, fascist symbolism... In Euskadi initiatives have been promoted for the recovery of symbolic places, exhumations of remains, reordering of archives, investigation and dissemination of historical facts, development of databases, collection of testimonies, multiple acts of recognition... All of us in this Parliament know the different rules for the development of historical memory, and I will make no more mention than... We must include in this case and, in relation to economic reparation, I would like to point out in particular to Decree 107/2012, to which Mr Arzuaga referred, which provided for substantial compensation. Finally, I would also like to recall this consensus to which I referred earlier in relation to the Law on the Creation of Gogora, which set up the institutional subject and the competences for the development of memory policies. This law will now define what and how. Today, the comprehensive law, which is ultimately the important part of this debate, seeks to deepen a work that has already been carried out and which aims to promote and expand the actions carried out so far, giving them a unity of meaning. For all this, we have tabled a comprehensive amendment in which we place duties on the Government, Mr Arzuaga, we are telling the Government to bring the bill to this Parliament as soon as possible and, in addition, we also place important duties on ourselves, which is to speed up its processing as quickly as possible, because, I insist, a law is necessary that gives a sense of unity to all our public policies in the area of historical and democratic memory and that will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening their legal security. Democratic states – I don't say anything that isn't known, but I want to stress it – have a debt to pay to those who were victims of violence and repression for their commitment to freedom. And I would also like to point out what is strictly expressed in the explanatory statement of the law, which is nothing more than building our democratic memory from the past and the most rigorous historical knowledge, which is the strongest way to strengthen democratic culture in the face of denial, intolerance and exclusion, to ensure our future of democratic coexistence and respect for human rights. This is the important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief and lady of the department, members of the legislature, guests to all good days. The historical memory is very important to us. Therefore we must always remember the victims of franchise; we must remember justice, confession, and co-operation, and not only remember them, but we must stand by them too. Stand by to show him protection, help him as much as we can, and stand by to face the insults they still receive. Unfortunately, the theme of the victims of Fankism is of great Today. And I say "luckily," because we still have to listen to the nostalgical or neophrancists of the past. They don't have to put up with victims like that. So this is our most intimate embrace for the victim and their families. But this is so important a subject, that it is easy to excite the passion for some people's indiscretions. Easy, this is populism. Easy, easy to take this subject with neither policy nor beauty Today, the Basque Country is about the same law as the parliamentary band presented to us. In the discussion of the legal proposal of historical memory, Mr. Arzuga informed us that he would present this as well as this. With the victims' associations in front of them, I would say, "sasa hero," Mr. Azuga, who became a hero. And we respect this decision, but we must say that we do not share it. Respect, yes, separation, not. He said that we do not share this form of action and do not share it because what we consider is that this is intended to condition, condition the future legislative debate. Look, what you bring here today, the content of this GNP, is in the draft that you have spoken about before and will be debated at your time, because everything is debated in due course. We understand that we have to call for seriousness and rigour, and above all we have to demand consistency in the parliamentary process. Beyond all this, we understand that this is what is intended to make the debate on a law as a whole, a very important law, a concrete debate on a specific assessment report, and we believe that the victims deserve more than that, if I may say so, we believe that the victims deserve much more than that, the victims deserve a comprehensive law, a law that provides for a report, yes, but also a law that talks about memory itineraries, victims of bombings, justice, reparation, many more things. Look, I've started my speech by talking about the importance of this subject to us, and it's because of the relevance it has, and because of the relevance we give it, so we understand that we have to do it right. We want a complete law, a good law, a law that protects and gives true guarantees to the victims. In addition, we believe that it is a law that we have to work among all of us, and when I say all of us, I am referring to the groups in this House, yes, but I am also referring to the Basque Government, I am also referring to the victims, the associations and the families of the victims, and I am also referring to civil society. And we know, Mr. Arzuaga, that this is how you are working. We know that the dialogue between the Government and the victims is fluid, we know that contributions are being received to have as rich a text as possible and we know that the deadline for making public claims by civil society is still open. You see, it's a commitment to bring the bill to the parliament in as short a time as possible, but you'll understand that carrying a law requires discretion, that it requires severity, that it demands seriousness, but above all, it requires a job. He asks us for work, and the government does it without rest. There's no hurry, no good companions, and the government is working without haste. But the government works all the time. Again, as in so many other themes, eucadi, precursive and referent. We're different because we were the first, not the only one, but the one, the only member of the autonomy, who was the only member of the victims. Yet in the bill of law, or in the text of the government, there is already a test to improve. So, if we're working, we're ready to get better. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we're not here, we're not here to talk about particular cases, but they're going to allow me to make an exception. Look, I have many flaws, many, but I'm not going to talk about them, that's something I leave to you. That's right, I have a virtue: I'm from the PNV. I am of the PNV, of the Lehendakaris Agirre and Leizaola; I am of the PNV of Ajuriaguerra, and, yes, I am also of the PNV of the Lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu, that lehendakari who each year honors the victims of Francoism, those Gudaris who in the 36th defended freedom and democracy and those Gudaris who suffered repression, exile, and which many of them had to pay even with their own life. And I am very proud of that generation, and I am also very proud of all the later generations who have honored them year by year. Instead, you, Mr. Arzuaga, if I'm not mistaken, belong to Sortu. Sortu, by Arkaitz Rodríguez, that Arkaitz Rodríguez who compared the Gudaris who in the 36th defended freedom and democracy with whom for so many years, for decades, they have slashed it in our country, in Euskadi. I will repeat it so that it does not go unnoticed: the leader of his party compared those who defended democracy and freedom with members of a terrorist gang. Therefore, Mr Arzuaga, you will understand that it is very difficult for us to make the way together; you will understand that it is very difficult for us to reach an agreement. For our part it is not going to stay; we want an agreement. Yes, you will understand that, if that is very difficult, there is something that is impossible, and that is that you teach us about defending victims and respecting human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u6	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Groups that haven't issued any corrections. Basque Popular. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u7	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Well, I'll be very brief. We, my group, will vote against the EH Bildu initiative. I believe that arguments and questions have already been put on the table at this time. There is a parliamentary procedure, there is a draft, a preliminary draft law on historical memory, where, we understand, there will be perfect room for a supplementary question such as that raised here in this debate, right? It is, of course, a question that must go into what is the process of the bill when it comes to the House, and, normally, each group will present its initiatives, its proposals, its amendments..., and that will be the time, won't it? We are now also familiar with the draft bill. It is being submitted, it has already been submitted to public presentation and allegations. We will also know, of course, that we will ask the Government when it comes to bringing in the bill, those allegations and those requests that the people interested in it have been able to make, and those contributions, which some suppose the Government will include in the bill, others will not. Well, we will also have the power to include them or to take them into account in what is the budgetary procedure. It is also possible that all these issues could also be dealt with in a procedure, in the same way that this proposal is presented to us, because someone could also raise it in the context of the debate on the preliminary draft law, the draft that we already know. In that sense, well, we will certainly wait for the bill. It seems that groups that support the Government are committed to demanding that the Government speed up; they too are talking about that they are going to be quick in the parliamentary process. We'll see, we'll see where they're going... –the rushes are not good counselors – we'll see where the paperwork goes in this house. It will not be because a proposal, an amendment to a non-legislative proposal, says so. We will see how we work in the paper that is created to effect. That is to say, it will have its debate in this Parliament and that will be the time for amendments and proposals. That is why we understand that, well, that we are not going to accept, we are not going to support this initiative which seeks to achieve a leading role in this debate, right?, the leading role of which has not been successful with certain initiatives and certain proposals in this House, certain initiatives and proposals which we have, at the time, described as not necessary and, moreover, with a lack of loud rigour in presenting them in this House. Today a debate will be held on the basis of a text of a bill... Also, like any bill, he himself will have to be accompanied by his opinions, his corresponding reports, his economic quantifications... That is, like any bill, it will have to be accompanied by a series of reports and accompanying measures. We'll see about that. and we will study them and analyze them in order to deal with that text. In that regard, no further action is necessary at this time, and that is why we will vote against the initiative. When we hear some interventions, it seems that almost everything remains to be done, that almost everything remains to be done. And it's done a lot, it's done a lot. A great deal has been done, and this society has done so, in relation to the victims of the Civil War, the victims of Francoism, the dictatorship... A lot of things have been done. It gives the feeling that, sometimes, in speeches, we have many issues pending, and that is not the case. There will be issues, of course, there will be outstanding issues and they can be analysed, but of course we do not share the meaning and, of course, the proposal of the Bildu initiative. It seems that someone is worth nothing, that everything seems little, isn't it?, a bill, decrees, measures... Gogora's not worth it. We are not the most enthusiastic with the function, with the creation of Gogora – we have already expressed it – but some issues are entrusted by the law that was passed in this Parliament, by the law of creation. Some function can perform in all this sense, can't it? Well, well, let's not underestimate efforts. We have announced a bill, which is announced and we know that it is under way because it has been subject to public exposure and allegations. There is an institute, Gogora, which has also been created by law, this Parliament has created it to talk about things, among other things, such as the one that brings this initiative to this House today. We understand that it is unnecessary, that it is not going anywhere, and we will, of course, vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u8	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u9	Good morning, congressmen. Everything has its moment, it's true. The problem is that we do not agree on the timing of the issue we are discussing today. The issue we are discussing today, which Mr Arzuaga brings to the House today, is very specific. Our coalition, our parliamentary group, is going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal because we think, precisely, that the time is before that law is passed. In other words, we share the view that this law must include the issue of economic reparation. And in the debates we have had in this House on the Historical Memory Act, this has been one of the issues of discussion. Therefore, it is one of the issues that, when we process the law in this House, we will have to resolve and mark the positions of the different groups, and reach agreements. Therefore, if a report is needed... we do not think it is an indispensable condition for a committee to make that report either, because, since Gogora has drawn up that draft, Gogora should have dealt with this issue. But Gogora has not done it, Gogora has not done it, and we therefore think it is right that the Government should be asked to instruct a group of experts to make that report, because precisely with that report we will have much easier in the debate. This issue has to be included in the law on a very important issue. One of the things our group has argued that a law of historical memory is needed is because historical memory policies, in the case of our autonomous community – apart from what has been done more or less – are at the height of the discretion of the Gogora government and institute. And that is one of the main shortcomings we find in historical memory policies in our community. That is why we have argued that there should be a law of historical memory. It does not make any sense to us that this committee, which the groups supporting the Government seem to also consider that there must be a committee of experts to make that report, does not make any sense to us that this committee should be mandated to prepare the report during the first year after the adoption of the law. The report must be prior to the debate we have in this Parliament on this law. We certainly can't understand... I think it would go a little further: I don't think I've heard – perhaps in the second round of intervention – but I haven't heard any serious, compelling arguments to explain why you think that report should be made after the law has been passed. I've heard a lot of things, I've heard some go down the hills of Ubeda, but I haven't heard a serious argument. Our argument to support the initiative is this – it is simple and clear –: we are going to discuss a historic memory law in this Parliament and we want to discuss it in the best of conditions. There is controversy, there is a discrepancy as to how the question of the economic reparation of the victims of the dictatorship, of the fascist coup d'état, needs to be addressed. Therefore, that report – if all or most of us agree that there has to be a report – must be prior to the debate. It is the only way that this report can be useful. And we can only think of one reason why we do not want this report to be pre-debate, and it is that, in fact, the law is lax and that on this issue, after the adoption of the law, it can continue to be done in a discretionary manner with this particular issue. I am not going to talk about the whole Historical Memory Act, because I believe that today's debate was not so much the Historical Memory Act. Today the debate was a very specific issue: that law will have to address the issue of economic reparation. And, therefore, that specific issue, in the initiative before us, clearly marks that we have that report to address that debate, and to make it law. And for us this is very important. Moreover, I do not even share one element of Mr Arzuaga's initiative, the temporary element, which marks a six-month period for the Government, which would lead us to June. Therefore, in our view, that report should be earlier so that we can use it in the debate on that law, if that law really comes as the groups supporting the Government are telling us today, it comes in time. It is also true that I thought it absurd to make an amendment to the whole by simply modifying that deadline. I would also like to take this opportunity to say one thing: for our coalition, the issue of the economic reparation of victims is not, by far, the most important issue to be addressed by this law. That's right. It is not the most important issue in this country's democratic memory policies, but it is a matter that cannot be avoided – which we must not avoid – and which we must also comply with. It's an important matter. And it's not about opposing – as I thought I understood one and some speakers before my intervention – one cannot contrast one with the other. That seemed to me to understand. Today's initiative was on this very specific issue. Of course, it's not about taking breasts out, Mr. Díez. I too am a militant in a party plagued by the dead, the tortured and the victims of the dictatorship, and women and men who gave it all for the freedom of Euskadi, for the defense of democracy, of the Second Republic..., but we were not talking about what we each have in our party backpack. Therefore, it seems to me that I intend to embarrass a debate like this with other issues... It also bothers me when Sortu compares some ETA militants of the 1980s with gudaris or militiamen. So what? So what? What does that have to do with my understanding that Mr Arzuaga's initiative is a good initiative? It seems to me that this is a lack of respect for those who fought for freedom in this country, because the debate was very concrete: we are going to address a law of historical memory. That group, like the rest of the groups, is here because they've voted for them, by popular decision... It's a legal game... And it brings an initiative. And I'm very tired – and I'm not exactly a friend of many of Sortu's theses – but I'm very tired of using these issues to embarrass in debates like this, or in debates about the Historical Memory Law. And I had heard it many times from the People's Party – today Mr Barrio has not done it – and I am very sorry that, although in a smoother way, I am very sorry that the PNV spokesman did. Our argument is very simple: if that law is going to address – and I think Mrs Gallástegui, if I have not misunderstood her, or her words suggest that they do not find it wrong that this law specifically addresses the issue of the economic reparation of the victims – if that law is going to address – and it should be addressed – if there has to be a report to know exactly what has been done so far legislatively in our community, or in the entire state that affects us, and what remains to be done, and the economic capacities to do so, if it is necessary to be informed, it is now necessary, before the debate of the law. It's necessary now. If it is done after the debate of the law, it will not be included in the law, and it will be at the discretion of those who have to do so – in this case the Gogora institute, with whom we have no problem – but it will remain at the discretion. And we want to prevent these kinds of things from being left to the discretion; they must be well reflected in the law. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u10	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing on the answers, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u11	Mr. Díez, I'll give you a single answer to that self-satisfisation you made. I don't know what you're talking about, orgulloso, how you feel about being PNV, and I never customize it, but today I'll make an exception. I am Julián Arzuga and Julián Gumutius' nephew, both warriors, fighting franchises, both victims of fricancism. That's what I saw at home. That's my orlo. Mrs Gallástegui, a mention of the debate we had a month ago: it was not to verify the need or the adherence to the bill brought to us by the Government, it was to reject, it was to withdraw the ILP that brought us the platform, and that we assumed Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu because we thought it was a valid text on which to make the debate. Because it was an ambitious text, and because it brought a lot of measures that the text you have brought does not have. I am surprised that you are appealing to the allegations that associations can make, etc., and the amount of information that we will have together with the bill, and use that argument to deny us a report, a report that could be on the table, as Mr Hernández says, before the end of this legislature, and we can move forward with the debates and we can have something to discuss together. And it makes an inquiry into article 12, where it does not provide for a single measure, nor for a single public policy of reparation – nor for a single one. All he's saying is he's gonna ask for a report. Are those all the reparations that the law brings us and to which you choose to have? Will you bring a report? Look, you now seem to be in a hurry, but not much, with the amendment you have brought, because you want to save some time, maybe save a few months, speeding up the process of the project. I do not know if perhaps I am asking Cojua or Emakunde to go faster, perhaps I am asking the memorialist associations and victims' associations not to make claims to go a little faster, or they are asking Parliament to hurry, I do not know if it is not making amendments. They're in a hurry, but little, I tell you, because there are some victims mainly who are in a hurry, who are in a lot. And I'm going to tell you that they're not in a hurry and this is about the PNV, because in 2008 this Parliament requested a truth commission with the favorable votes of Basque Nationalists, Eusko Alkartasuna, Ezker Batua, Aralar and Ezker Abertzalea. And it's been 11 years and that truth commission that was being requested is nowhere to be found. And says Mr. Díez that the "Government works continuously." For 11 years, 11 years! Where is the truth commission that you supported with that GNP? And now they want to save maybe a couple of months; I wanted to save some time, actually, having that report and being able to value it. Look, imagine that that additional provision saying that some experts value the possibility, perhaps look at reparation measures, compensation measures or reparations..., imagine that this initiative, that article in another law to repair other victims, for example, in the Victims of Terrorism Act, which has articles and articles, which has pages and pages of reparation measures. Imagine... What a scandal it would be. Because I believe in equal treatment between the various victims. And, if I see the compensation bars that bring one law or another to some victims or others, I find that a victim of ETA is compensated with 250,000 euros; a victim of the State is worth half (135,000 euros), and a victim of Francoism, in his gut, is worth zero, is compensated with zero euros. It seems that knowledge of existing reparation measures and analysis of those that are needed condition the debate. Not giving this debate is what conditions the agreement, postponing compensation to Gogora's whim makes the agreement impossible. I do not know who you will want to take this law with, Mr Díez, but, with these bases and stealing the debate, with EH Bildu hardly, with the withdrawal of the first intervention you have made, with EH Bildu hardly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u13	Fortunately, science advances that it is barbarity and everything is recorded. Therefore, I will not go in to discuss appreciations about what I have not said, because this is like the diabolical proof: prove what one has not said. In the end, everything is recorded in the Minutes and will be read here what has been said by the representative of the Socialist Group, in this case I, in relation to the appeal to associations to base ourselves on the refusal to make this report within the time limits expressly set by Bildu. The truth, I insist, is that article 12 of the law expressly recognizes economic reparation measures, refers them to the first additional provision of that law, in the same way that they also refer to other issues that are very nuclear and very important, as Mr Hernández has said, that is, economic reparation is not the most important, not even the most nuclear. And you have, however, done nothing about that reference to another series of very important historical memory policies or actions that point to their development in the second additional provision. But each raises what it thinks appropriate to raise. In any case, I insist on what I have already insisted on more than once, and it is that unfortunately we live in a time of convulsion and in which we are pretending to liquidate the historical memory, all this that we have achieved so far. And I am very sorry that all that contact, that consensus, that maximum consensus that has been, as I said before, one of the signs of identity of public policies of memory in Euskadi is broken down because some think or want to imply that there are certain groups in this Parliament who are not sufficiently committed to this. What is this about this being a lax law? I have also told you before that this is a law that seeks to give a unity of meaning to all historical memory policies and therefore, because there have already been many historical memory policies, there is a unification to give legal certainty, and content and unity of meaning, and another series of measures, including those of economic reparation, including those of economic reparation, economic reparation that the victims of Francoism, by the way, have already had in other ways, with all those decrees to which you have referred, for more than two decades in Euskadi. For more than two decades in Euskadi. What is the reason why it has to be – an issue that is going to give rise to a consensus – what is the reason why it has to be a year or within six months from now? Why? Will you explain why? If it's picked up here. Is this just to make a question..., let's make this casus belli In any case, I insist on nuclear. Are we going to let this Parliament seem to record a break in the previous consensus that has always existed? We have a law that is going to be a pioneer, not a pioneer law, but it is going to collect everything that we have done pioneeringly during all these years. Please give way to the processing and make this again the spearhead of memory policies in Euskadi, with an integral law that will satisfy the needs of everyone in all aspects, not only in economic reparation, which, as Mr Hernández has said – he says, but then does not think about it, or at least does not move it here – is not by far the most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, you told us about your personal case. Even from here, our closest embrace is yours. And because you've told us about your personal case, I suppose you don't think it's right what the head of your party said, do you? I suppose, especially on account of your situation, you will disapprove of what he said. You started telling them your involvements that the soldiers worked and asked if the institutions did. The institutions did too. The institutions too. Do you know who didn't do his job? Left patriots. He says, Mr Arzuaga, that we have stolen the debate. No, no, Precisely what we have done has been to prevent an important debate from being stolen, and what we have done has been to give this issue the relevance it deserves. And we believe that it has to be discussed in a debate in a comprehensive law and not through GNP. We believe that a law is more important. Well, one question I'd like to ask you is, in the bill you brought to this House, how much was a victim worth? Was it worth the same as an ETA victim? How much did you value her? Because they talk about what the Government's text values. How much did you value him? Was it the same value as an ETA victim? You also speak of the fact that I do not know which committee I do not know which body. For it is the Governing Council of Gogora, of which you are a member. Mr Hernandez, despite your intervention and the tone of your intervention towards us, I am sorry to say that we agree in large measure. We agree that you, too, are disturbed by the statements made by Sortu. We agree on that, don't we? And we also agree that the technical report should not contradict other aspects of the law. We simply understand what Mr Arzuaga was saying, that we prefer the debate to be in a full legislative debate rather than through GNP. And hilarious with that, you tell us you've lacked argument. I believe there has been no lack of argument. Precisely our argument is that: let us give him the rank he deserves to a subject as important as this. Finally, it seems that the tone with which I referred to the proponent of this GNP has not been correct. But do you know what's going on? That's that sometimes we get annoyed by the lessons of the least able to give them. I recognize that there are many victims in your party, and therefore I recognize you as a moral authority, a legitimacy, in order to be able to discuss this matter, even to reproach, but there are those who have no capacity to reproach us with anything, there are those who have no legitimacy to give lessons there. And sometimes some of us get tired of those who have nothing to tell us are the ones who are giving lessons to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u16	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Mr. Barrio mustn't speak. So together Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u17	The problem, Mr Diez, is that I do not think there is a need for moral authority to debate whether it is appropriate for this report to be made before the debate on the law or later on to be debated by the law. That does not require moral authority. I do not come to historical memory debates with a special morale because I am a militant in a particular party. No, I'm not coming. Another thing is that, well, examples are used, etc. And I think so, Mrs Gallástegui. It's true that sometimes I don't say everything I think, because I think we have to be careful in this life too, but you have to be sure that everything I say in this rostrum is because I think it – because you have said it. And if I have said that for our coalition, economic reparation is not the most important issue in democratic memory policies, it is because we think so. But I also said that not being the most important is an important issue that we must address and that we believe that we must address in the law and that we believe that it should be well reflected in the law. And that's the important question. If the report is made ex post facto of passing the law, it is most likely, most likely, and if not, what is the point of such a report?, it is that the law does not take up the issue of economic reparation or collect it in the terms that are now in the draft, which, in our view, allow there to be a discretion at the time of then applying what these economic reparations should be like. And it is true: if in other different laws but dealing with issues of different victims, compensation is collected, why not in the Historical Memory Act? In the Historical Memory Law it can be collected; we believe it should be collected. And that is why we support this initiative, because what it says is that this report is being done to address the debate on the law. And we think that it is absolutely necessary that if there is a report, we have it before the debate on that law; otherwise, that law will not have this issue taken up. And we, of course, already know that it has not addressed us on this issue, but we are not prejudging the end of what that Historical Memory Law is going to be like. We're not prejudging what the end is going to be. And nobody in this House – not even the members of my group – knows the position that my group will have on the outcome of that law, because we will have to wait for the debates and see what the outcome is. And we are not going to use these kinds of debates or these kinds of initiatives to prejudge or pre-question futures. And that is why I have focused a lot on the specific issue, and that is why I have told you before that I believe that many of you have gone through the hills of Ubeda, because the question was very specific: a report was requested from a group of experts to analyse the issue of economic reparation for the victims of the dictatorship. That is what the initiative calls for. And we, if it seems to us that this is appropriate for us to address this debate, are focusing on defending this issue. And of course we'll see in the debate... I find it difficult to understand the position of the Socialist Group, because I have not yet understood it. But I hope that the issue of economic reparation is in that Historical Memory Act, and it is well collected. But today, the amendment you are submitting at the hands of the Basque Nationalist Party tells us that the intentions are that it is not collected. And I wish we were wrong, but that's what it tells us. And we're worried. We are concerned because the journey we are taking on this issue, for us, is worrying, because now we are all talking about the Historical Memory Law. And now, everybody's working a lot. And the government does a lot of work. But it turns out, and I have already said it – I believe that every time we talked about this issue – and it is not to reproach it, that the historical memory – no longer the law – the historical memory was not even in the legislative calendar of this government, it was not in the government agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi. And it's been a long time. And we continue to see how you put obstacles today to something that seems absolutely elementary to us. Another thing is that the report was not needed, because Gogora would have the capacity, perfectly, to analyse what policies or measures of economic reparation have been for the victims so far and to make a proposal, but it has not done so. And that is why I understand – I do not want to interpret the proponent's intentions – why I understand that Mr Arzuaga is presenting this initiative. And that is why I think we have to vote for it and we have to defend it, because, for that debate, we need that report. If we all agree that this report is needed, we need it for that debate, to address the law. And that is not altering the debate; instead, it is equipping all groups with one more tool to approach that debate rigorously, to address that debate rigorously. And not to sell smoke to the victims, not to sell smoke to the victims, because neither do we want to sell smoke to the victims...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u18	Go to the end of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u19	I'm done, Madam President. And that is why, if a report is needed, it is necessary for the moment of the debate. And the time is now if you're really going to bring that Historical Memory Law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u20	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. End of discussion, we'll vote for the original text of the EH Collect group. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 28; the contrary, 44; the abstainments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u21	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 36; the contrary, 28; the abstainments, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u22	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. The second point in the subject's list, "as a parlamentary proposition made together by the Podemos on the investigation of the Basque Woods." Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr. Becerra of the Podemus, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Muskiz, March 3, 2019, this year; a fire on the hillside of Mount Peñascal, 50 hectares of eucalyptus burning; in the videos hanging neighbors on the nets, you hear: "You just caught it! He did it! I've seen him!".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u24	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u25	Behind this video, behind this intentional fire, a temporary hostel in the polysports to accommodate the displaced neighbors, a highway cut off next to the largest oil refinery on the Iberian peninsula and 150 people working for extinction. Indeed, Ertzaintza investigates this fire and discovers an incendiary device. I'm not going to talk about this fire, this fire is an example of what happens when a fire is investigated. That same day, in Bizkaia, there were four other fires: one in Mount Ganguren, at the gates of Bilbao; another in Amoroto; another in Punta Galea (Getxo), and another in the Urizar district of Lemoiz. These four weren't investigated. These four weren't investigated. Horregatik, read besteko proposeen Honen Helburua da sate guztiak ikertzea. Guk gure taldean nahi dugu guztiak ikertzea. Here Euscadin is not most of those who study our lands, but the opposite. He scans edges rarely, but most of the time nobody investigates them. And why is it so important to investigate all the fires? To preach, as the law says. As the law says, one of the principal instruments of prevention is to study, along with the care of dissession. Says the saying "prevent, better than regret." It is a basic principle of security; it is a basic principle of prevention. And for that we need to investigate the fires, we need to investigate them so that those who provoke them feel vigilant and know how the fires are provoked. This is stated in the State Montes Act: to prepare investigation reports and, when signs of crime are detected, to take them to the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Judicial Police. The Basque Government's civil protection plans also say so. Reporting requires forest and personnel fire investigation brigades with adequate means and training. And in Euskadi that, today, is not happening. We're fine in Gipuzkoa, but in Bizkaia, for example, we're not. In Bizkaia the investigation of fires is confused with a mere collection of statistical data about the time of extinction, the means used and the affected surface. And that is not an investigation report because it does not determine the causes, nor the starting point, nor, of course, makes it possible to identify the culprits. Without an investigation report there are no causes; without causes there is no guilt, and without guilt there is no crime. So, without a fire investigation report, what we have in this country is impunity. Impunity in the face of fires. And, therefore, since there are no research reports, or there are no research reports in all the territories, what happens is that the figures, the cold figures, do not lie. Gipuzkoa, with a 29 % forest area, to the extent that it investigates its fires, has only 25 % of the fires taking place in Euskadi, and only 18 % of the most serious fires, which are those of more than one hectare. Bizkaia, on the other hand, does not investigate its fires, with a forest area of 32 %, i.e. one third of the forest area of Euskadi, however, has 50 % of the fires, and 65 % of the graves, i.e. of the others of one hectare. Therefore, 2018 data is clear: if you investigate, there are fewer fires; if you don't investigate, there are more fires, they are more serious and they are unpunished. At this point in my exhibition you will tell me: "Well, if the deputies don't do their job, you ask the deputies at the general meetings." Well, no. The Basque Government has competence in this area. The competence in the area of fire extinguishment is, in fact, of the outlaws and it is the deputies who, by virtue of their obligation under the Montes Act, have to have plans to prevent forest fires. But – and here comes the competence of the Basque Government – the Department of Security, through the Emergency Management Act and through what indicates the Special Plan for Forest Fire Risk Emergencies in the Basque Country And as I said before that in Bizkaia there is no investigation of the fires, I will follow Bizkaia's example. The Emergency Care Act clearly states that it is the legal obligation of all interveners that remedies be directly connected to 112. Well, in 2017 Bizkaia eliminated the emergency plant of forest agents, which, among other things, monitored the realization of the 8,000 forest fires that are made in Bizkaia each year. And privatized this service so that, out of working hours, right now what we have is an operator of a private company with a traceable mobile phone, with a mobile on the mountain, on that mountain where there is sometimes no coverage. And this is what we have right now. That is why our group's non-legislative proposal today is that the Basque Government is involved in verifying that the parliaments have the plans they need, the human resources they need and the response protocols they need. Finally, I want to mention the value of coordinate in this subject, because it's difficult to investigate, but it's harder to find him guilty and to punish him, and for that purpose we need coordinate. We need protocols to promote between the farmlands, the Borders, and the prosecutors. And for that, we need a political will, and no more. And therefore we call this political will to protect the other proposal as well as our party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u26	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group. Ms. Łódź, your word is yours. lópez de ocarariez lópez de muina I take the floor on behalf of the People's Group to set the position on the initiative presented by the Elkarrekin Group We are referring to the investigation of the forest fires in Euskadi, which it essentially asks for, and that is why it urges the Government, at its first point, "to set in motion brigades for the investigation of forest fires", to provide them with "technical and material means" and training "in order to be able to exercise their functions with guarantees". I believe, Mr Becerra, that with the appearance of the representatives of the forest guards in the Committee on the Environment on day 2, and, above all, in the appearance concerning environmental crimes, it was clear that in order to set up these brigades, it is necessary, in coordination with the other competent administrations, to create by law the body of forest agents, as, of course, they have most of the autonomous communities, which are already created and have functions. With functions, among others, such as police, custody and surveillance for compliance with the legal regulations applicable in our autonomous community on forestry, fauna, flora, hunting, fishing, forest fires, ecosystems, continental waters, livestock, protected natural spaces, geomorphology, landscape and the proper use of natural resources, and all that affects the environment and the natural environment. To intervene in the work of preventing and detecting and extinguishing forest fires and, as it cannot otherwise be, to intervene in the investigation of the causes of the fires. All this on the basis of our legislation, the plans, such as that of emergency forest fire hazards of the Basque Autonomous Community As I say to you, a law is necessary that creates the body of forest agents, that gives them the character of agent of authority, of what today forest guards lack. And its structure will determine which special units will establish. I'm saying it in case they're "forest fire investigation brigades" or something else. They don't have to be "research brigades," they can be called otherwise, there are autonomous communities that call them otherwise. Therefore, this, Mr Becerra, in reference to the first point of the non-legislative proposal before us. Then, in the second point, he makes a recommendation to what the plan already contains, right?, that in paragraph 13, for example, he talks about how to implement and what is the maintenance of the plan, the resources... And it says this plan that reports will be prepared on emergencies that occurred and the operation of the plan. Well, I, we, our group, have requested reports that have been prepared since 2016, that this report was approved, until today, to know exactly how it worked, because I don't know how it worked, I don't have data, I can't talk, I don't know. That plan also speaks of the protocols to be established. This links with point three, where you call for "specific protocols" for forest fire investigation, which is also reflected in a compromise amendment that we have signed by the People's Group with government groups, is reflected in the second point, where this protocol for forest fire investigation is requested. So, in some ways, your initiative is also reflected in the compromise amendment. We, in the amendment we are making to this initiative, define it and it is reflected in point three of the compromise amendment, and what we say from the Group of the European People's Party is something we have said repeatedly, right? We refer to the importance of the forestry sector as one of the activities of the first sector, the primary sector. And we say that both the Basque Government, "together with the parliaments", must put in place "measures to make the forestry sector a strategic activity that stimulates the rural environment that helps to sustainably manage the forest masses", because this is a way of preventing, the good management of the forest masses. And we also talk about that it has to coexist with extensive livestock farming, "in order to achieve the re-evaluation of forest products and the exploitation of forest biomass as a local renewable resource of the rural environment". This should be so, and work all in this direction. You were talking about Gipuzkoa and the hectares of Gipuzkoa. I have here some data that are from Saturday, from an interview they were doing in El Diario Vasco The majority, 80%, is privately owned and very atomised, with a total of 9,000 owners. Their high age makes abandonment one of the main challenges of forest management. The wood sector creates 4,000 direct jobs and 2,300 indirect jobs in Gipuzkoa. Trees are therefore the most abundant renewable resource available to Gipuzkoa. But this came parallel to an interview with a forest owner, a mountain engineer at the same time, right?, and they asked him how he sees the sector. And he was talking about forest management. That the forest "provides us with wood, a renewable resource and a zero kilometre", that "generates economic wealth", that "provides leisure services for citizens", that "contributes to mitigating climate change" and that it is an "important element for rural development". "On the contrary, an unmanaged forest is a missed opportunity. The abandoned forest does not provide us with wood, it is uncompromising, the risk of fire increases, the CO catch balances decrease 2 and does not generate economic wealth." And they asked him: "What risks are to be faced and how do you think it should be done?". He said: "Management is becoming increasingly complicated, making it difficult for cultivated forests to complete their productive cycle. The pests, diseases, climatic conditions, fires (...) put their integrity at risk. Particular mention should be made of the virulence of diseases and the deterioration of the health status of trees." And then they asked him about the future: "What future would he want for the forest sector in Gipuzkoa?". He said: "I would like to have a treed Gipuzkoa, with well-managed forests that bring economic wealth, employment and environmental services to the territory. Also with young forest owners and a citizen who values our work and who, in turn, enjoys the forests. If we share this dream, I am convinced that we can all achieve it. We ask society and the administration to accompany us on this path, with the commitment on our part to manage our forests sustainably." Well, I think the forest owner and the mountain engineer have said it very well, and I think we all have to work together on that. And, as I was saying, your initiative... I believe that the first point is not taken up, but because to do so we need a law that equips agents, that we create the body of forest agents, that gives them authority and that then in that structure form or develop special brigades or special attention teams for certain circumstances, such as the investigation of fires. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u27	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u28	President, ladies and gentlemen: The initiative presented by Mr Becerra affirms that the investigation of forest fires is "insufficient" – he has reiterated it here – and proposes that "fire investigation brigades" be launched, that the Basque Government be the supervisor of "plans for preventing and defending forest fires" and that protocols be carried out "against environmental violations and crimes" between deputies, the Government and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Historic Territories Act already establishes whose powers are vested in the investigation of forest fires. As is known, it is the deputies through their forest, environmental and fire guards; and for the investigation of fire constituting a crime, it is the Ertzaintza through the environmental group of the Scientific Police. It is therefore not up to Parliament to provide for the supervision of outlaws over the powers it already exercises, and it should also be noted that the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies already provides the necessary training for this task. In addition, it should be recalled that all municipalities that are required by law to have municipal emergency civil protection plans have such plans. This affects 95% of the population of the Basque Autonomous Community. The Civil Protection Commission, in turn, is aware of the plans drawn up by the different institutions, because the outlaws draw up them and present them to the coordinating body mentioned above, and the set of plans covers the planning forecast. With regard to coordination protocols, the institutional provision is favourable and is always open to any improvement that may be necessary. Having said that, in the course of these days, a compromise amendment has been reached, which proposes the following: we insist on ensuring that "the Special Emergency Plan for Forest Fire Risks is kept up to date (...) And I say "we insist" because on what is being proposed we have been working on, we have made various initiatives and this debate has been triggered repeatedly in this Parliament, but if it is proposed to reiterate it, we will continue to insist, because, indeed, what is proposed is already being worked on and will continue to be worked on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u29	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u30	Good morning, head of the table. Chief department, members of the legislature: Thankfully, there is not much expectation in this debate, because so fewer people will be able to hear this unfortunate voice than my age and the flu are moving me. I know that at the moment we are dealing with very serious things, important for the short and medium-term future of this Government, which should not take away that at times when we do not devote ourselves to the transcendent we turn them into minutes of garbage. And do not take it with strict semantics, but rather with the new conception that "everything must be recycling". "Circular Economy." So this GNP should be a proposal which, as it comes to pass, is recycled and from this Parliament is referred directly to the institutions to which they belong, which are no more than the outlaws. A similar GNP was introduced a year ago. In that case the People's Group ended up withdrawing it because it realized that the competition was where it was, as it is meridianly clear to which institutions the matter of forest fires corresponds, both by the LTH itself and by the decrees on the structure of the outlaws. And it is that we find one of those radically displaced propositions, but, of course, in these moments of ideological agony it seems that everything is worth it, even if it is out of place. The worrying thing is that the matter is serious; it's not ballady. This is about forest fires, a subject of relevance to our forests, our forest economy, our environment and the safety of people. Now, given the seriousness of the matter, I am going to the first reflection of the intervention: the relocation and, worse, with prior knowledge of it. Because while the Statute gave exclusive powers to the Autonomous Community in the mountains, without forgetting the general management of the economy, which is what laminates all the competences of this country, immediately with the LTH it was sent back to the Chambers. Excuse me, but I need to soften my gargantille a little bit; Lau teilatu's song Final conclusion: Mountains are the competence of the parliaments and forest fires are part of the legal corpus of mountain competition. The original proposal of Elkarrekin Podemos, after acknowledging in his own proposal that the competence is of the deputies, demands that they put "specific brigades of investigation of forest fires", as Mr Becerra has already said here, and our group understands that there is no place for such a request. Not to whether or not these brigades should exist – there they are – but to demand it from this Parliament. Because, apart from the fact that this decision is not the responsibility of the Basque Government, at all, we are not who in this Parliament to demand that Parliament create specific jobs and in what way it should develop its competences, which is what the general boards are for. And all of us here have representatives on all the general boards of the territories of this country. I know that we are in more transcendental things, but that must not mean that the whole of the House will have affairs, the powers of other administrations. Or the representatives of Elkarrekin Can we not have their groups on the general meetings of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa that are able to demand the creation of these groups? The second point proposed by Elkarrekin Podemos is more of the same. It calls on the relevant institutions, the parliaments, to draw up "plans for prevention and defence against forest fires". Look, to fulfill a mandate of Law 1/1996 – last century – of the Emergencies of the Basque Country, already since 98 there is a special plan for forest fires coordinated between Basque Government and outlaws. One, first, was already done in December of '97. The last update of this plan was reported favourably by the plenary of the Basque Civil Protection Commission in July 16. The Governing Council of 27 December 16 approved it and was published in the BOPV on 11 January 17. I mean, I mean, before yesterday. This work is done and continues to be done. I remind you again that fire prevention is foral, exclusively foral. Another thing is that parliaments call on the Government to cooperate when an incident occurs that exceeds the mountain or becomes uncontrollable by its own means, but prevention and surveillance are their exclusive responsibility. And not only that: at the time of the actual extinction, regardless of the aid they ask for from other administrations, the command of the same, of the extinction, always corresponds to an official of the mountains of the corresponding parliament. Even, by making the matter that we are dealing with today concrete, it is up to them to do so. And now we are going, for a moment, to the PP amendment which, in principle, seemed, in response to what Elkarrekin Podemos had requested, a "branzanas bringigo". There is an amendment which, in any case, seemed to be from another GNP, which was another debate. However, I have to acknowledge that, with the aim of bringing together wills and efforts, Mr Becerra himself made a compromise proposal so that we could identify all – amending and proposing. The truth is that the one who has worked, the one who has made the effort, has at the end stayed out of the transaction. Although, from here, I recognize you, truly, affectionately, the effort you have made, which has allowed us to the PP, the PSOE and us to make the transaction in a series of very different amendments. But you came to find a driving force behind the various proposals which, I have to admit, although the PP amendment seemed out of time, it turns out that seen from the perspective that the well-managed mountain is the best way to prevent fires and that if at the same time it is managed for the creation of a market for sustainable fuels and generates a rural economy, it had obvious logic and reasonableness. And so, by broadening the prospects of the proposal, we have done so. It is what has, surely, the approach of the pre-Christmas dates: all good..., well, almost all of us are better, more nice, and we approach and trade. And then, surely, we take a turd, even if we come up with some rather long resolutions. I welcome the transaction, the way in which we can address the problem of preventing and investigating forest fires and, even if there are not many forest fires in Euskadi, I would have liked Elkarrekin Podemos to have joined, but, well, it couldn't have been. To finish, some research data. In 2015, Ertzaintza investigated 7 fires; in 2016, 13, and in 2017, 14. And then, he instructed 2 attestations in 2015; 5 in 16, and 8 in 17. I mean, from the start, the fires are being investigated. That is, regardless of whether an incident may occur each year, Euskadi has the jobs well done because, in this country, we are aware, even if it is said no, of this issue. It may also be that, by the data I have provided you with research and attested to, you seem low, so, to end by illustrating to your ladies and gentlemen, I end by pointing out to you the forest fires statistics of the last two years in Euskadi. Year 2016, 20 hectares forested on fire; year 2017, 8.5 hectares forested on fire. It can be seen that we are not a very fire-ridden country, except for exceptional events. Not only because of the climate and typology of forests that we have, but also because we have good prevention and extinction plans that, being a competence of the outlaws, are coordinated with the Department of Security of the Basque Government. And that, in addition to implying important inter-agency collaboration, means that less effort is needed to investigate. We are left with the compromise that we have signed, which is nothing more than asking the Government to continue working with the parliaments, both in updating emergency risk plans and in "the prevention, extinction and investigation of fires", and to jointly promote forest management so that, being sustainable, it revalues the forest product and its biomass. This is to focus on the issue and call for continuity in the work well done by outlaws and government. I have tried to speak from afar so that the following do not take away the viruses I have; however, I recommend that these microphones be set on fire so that they are free from viruses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u31	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u32	Yeah. Thank you, Mrs. Chairman, and good morning again. Well, apur bat denaz hitz egin da inititiba honen haritik: prevention, surveillance, exploitation, forest resources, livestock... Eta Gobernuko kideek kontrol-plenoetan esaten duten moduan, "well, I have been asked about the investigation of forest fires eta honetara siatuko naiz, pixka bat, atxikitzen". In the initiation, I think Mr. Becerra has a good deal of subject and worth, and he also has a job that is made by the Brigad of Gipuzian Sute. And he's right, a good practice, but some shades, I think, must be done, every porque no todo ese lo que reluce. They have great concerns, too, and they must also be mentioned. Above all, it must be mentioned how this brigade came up. For they themselves, the workmen, had to look for the formation themselves, they had to find it themselves, they had gone to Madrid from their own pocket, in their free days, to get this formation. I believe that they have had the initiative, because they have, in some measure, believed that such inquiries ought to be done, because the law is so marked, but because no one did so with propriety, and these workers, more than professionality, are formed for this kind of inquiry. And I think this is exemplary in the eyes of workers, but I don't think it's any good for the organization. It is not to be attributed to the litigations in this case that they have had good work or good practice or good interest in the institution, but to an initiative which has come from the workers. It is a great deal of talking here about the jurisdiction of each organization, and I am not very fond of telling other institutions what they ought to do from here, but I do not think that the legislative ought to do what they ought to do, to say to the clergy, or to the grand assembly; In the investigation of the fire there are several confused institutions with different jurisdictions. Hence a PNL, in the present year's June of the year, was admitted to be a proposition of the same nature as PNL, in order to take the measures of rule and crime in the circle of the surrounding world, and in which several different institutions were summoned to fulfil a number of different employments. The Security Department, the Environmental Department, the Aldudias, and the local authorities, were all summoned to work on several jobs. First, to make a commission between them, to design a plan of action for the transgression and crime of the surrounding world, and one thing that López de Ocariz required, which is important to me, that the wood-keepers should make a legal development, that is to say, to be burnt up as authority-agents. To do that trajectory, we had three homeworks to do. And I suppose that the initiation which Mr. Becerra has brought to us to-day is suitable, if it be only to show that the three domestic offices have not been satisfied, and have not been fulfilled. Here we ask for things that had been requested a year and a half ago, and at least we conclude that today's discussion has not been fulfilled: there is no commission, no interaction of commissions, no compact plan to act against violations and crimes in the surrounding world, and there is no legislation. At least let's put it on the table. As I say, the Gipuzkoa Fire Investigation Brigade has had to open itself up to codaços, it has had to be imposed by force of facts and only by the impulse of the forest guards themselves who make up it, who believed their work, today we can see that it exists and, moreover, that they are effective. They investigated 30 fires last year. Of these, 20 have concluded administrative proceedings, while 16 have been referred to the Office of the Prosecutor to verify the possible commencement of criminal proceedings. Procedures in which, by the way, they will have to appear, they will have to ratify their reports as agent of authority, I understand, and, with this, they will have more work, more dedication in working conditions in which they cannot neglect other jobs inherent in forestry day care. To this Parliament, what does this whole debate have to do with? Because we demanded that there be coordination between the Environment Unit of the Ertzaintza and the Fire Investigation Brigade, which today we can also see is not adequate. There is no functional sharing of tasks for which some do things and others. Specifically, the Fire Investigation Brigade, the technical investigations into why and how the fire has arisen, and the Ertzaintza, specifically, the investigation to establish its possible authorship and the criminal liability that may arise from it. And we detect problems: in the Environmental Unit of Ertzaintza there is no specialization. They are all – who are few – to everything "that's a lot." And in the plurality of criminal acts to be known, moreover, from this unit, there is no reference agent for fires, with which, moreover, an adequate work dynamic can be established from the forest nurseries, or from the fire investigation brigades. The attitude of the Ertzaintza, in many cases, rather than in terms of functional coordination, rather than in terms of making its functions complementary, is based on a relationship of superiority, of subordination, and this we have to note that it is not working. Indeed, and as Mr Becerra's initiative marked, the work of the Fire Investigation Brigade is of vital importance in terms of prevention, but also because it detects data and establishes statistics on which to extract an adequate X-ray of the risks of fire, of prevention, of the resources necessary for its extinction, of prevention initiatives, etc. Statistics on which, by the way, the parliaments themselves, the municipalities, the Ararteko or this Parliament should establish the debate on resources, on needs and on how to better deal with fire prevention and disposal. We agreed with Mr Becerra's initiative, with the original initiative, so we did not bring an amendment. And we were concerned, to some extent, that the PP and PNV-PSE amendments did not contain a specific reference to fire investigation. There is now a compromise; I have a comment to make on this. In the first point, we are talking about "maintaining up to date, together with the outside parliaments, the Special Emergency Plan for Forest Fire Risks" Anyway, I think it was more demanding what Mr Becerra brought us; I think it is more demanding what we approved in this Parliament in that GNP of 28 June 2018. We will ensure that the commitments made in that GNP are met. And we will therefore abstain from the initiative that the PSE, PNV and the People's Party have taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u33	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u34	Well, I, seeing the attitude of the different groups towards our proposal, find that this way of going from point to point is somewhat similar to the one that is being adopted throughout the country with regard to forest fires. That is to say, moving from points of a problem that exists, but that, while we live in a relatively humid country and with relatively viable extinction systems, it is not creating problems. Even Mr. Telleria said that in 2017 the number of hectares affected fell. Yes, but one person died. In Álava, a person died in a forest fire, Mr. Telleria. So, we're not just talking about hectares, we're talking about human lives, we're talking about material goods that fires end with them. I, precisely to mimic myself a little in that debate, tried in that transaction – which I give you, Christmas gift, Mr. Telleria – I tried to mimic myself and, instead of requiring the deputies to comply with the law to comply with the fair play law. Even, and Mr Arzuaga is absolutely right, I did not want to get into the interiors of how it works in Gipuzkoa. I just want to mention that at least they have means, that at least they have means. I didn't want to go any further, because the competition to self-organize I have simply limited myself to stating that if there are means to investigate, there are automatically fewer fires. In other words, research is a means of prevention. What I have no longer been able to assume is that indeed, well, the groups that support the Government are talking about "continue collaboration", because "continue collaboration" means that there is collaboration, and there is no collaboration. And that collaboration that was requested in the non-law proposal of the EH Bildu group in June 2018, which has been collected again in the transaction, has been unfulfilled since June 2018. Mrs López de Ocariz has said two issues which I think are fundamental, fundamental The first is how our forest agents are in the country. We would indeed need a unique body of forest agents. We don't have it. But we have three, one in each Chamber. They are bodies that are being privatized; they are bodies that have been deprived of the competences that the law gives them; they are bodies whose reports end in the drawer of the head of the service, when the law says that they would have to go directly to the Prosecutor's Office. And yet, the self-organizing power of the deputies makes reports of forest agents end up in a drawer. The second question – as I say, you will know whether we have to link them or not – is that of the good management of the forest masses. I fully share; I tried to put your input into the possible transaction. In it you talked about that the management of the forest masses must coexist with extensive livestock farming. Discrepare: Extensive livestock should learn to live with the rest of the uses of the mountain. According to statistics, the cold statistics, 70% of forest fires are caused by livestock and livestock, they are caused by livestock and livestock. And statistically I tell you that from here, this date, November, December, until February, March, 70% of the fires in this country are going to be caused by livestock farmers to grow new pastures during the spring. And that's the way it is. And no one wants to say anything, and everyone goes over the problem. I do not know whether my proposal, Mr Telleria, is of the "minutes of garbage" or not, but I do hope that from here to March, from here to March, we will not have to regret the fact that we do not require the Department of Security to supervise, by virtue of its powers, that the parliaments do everything they have to do in this matter. Because we can have more or less hectares burned, but the day a person dies, the day a highway is cut off, the day a person has to be evicted, a family from their home because it burns... We have seen it this summer, we have seen it on other occasions elsewhere and in other countries. Let's learn from what happens to others before it happens to us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u35	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Popular. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u36	Well, I mean, from the People's Group, we're worried about this issue – and we're very worried about it – and we're busy. And for that reason, we have been working on it for over a year, and I can assure you that our intention is that in the next election program to the next autonomic elections we take the initiative to bring a law here. But, of course, I don't know if we're going to need it, because Mr. Becerra has already investigated the fires, he's come to the conclusion, he's already got the data on the cause of most... You've got to find the one who set the fire, haven't you? The truth is, I think... the data you say it is, I don't think it is. We insist on the need to have forest agents with full authority, and that this will strengthen the whole system. And the rest is good faith. Of course I do, Gipuzkoa's body... , but then when it comes to making a complaint and arresting a person or doing other actions, it's as if we made it any of us. The value, explained to us by the forest guards, is zero at the time of filing a complaint or before a fact. Therefore, really, we are in a situation, in that, of deficit. I do not think it is time for the government to draw up a bill in these terms in this House, it is not appropriate at this time. So, well, I think that we are looking at the next legislature, that here we have a major failure, we all recognize it, and that, indeed, the good management of the mountain is going to prevent us. I think we must prevent, that the Emergency Plan has prevention points and prevention measures, what I do not know is whether they are being implemented, and that is why we will need a report to tell us what progress they have made, because I think there are important aspects to that plan, but we do not know how they are being implemented, we do not know it at all. We therefore believe that, at this time of the legislature, it is appropriate to assess what we have and to deal with the new legislature with projects that really solve the problem. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u37	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialists? Mr Price mustn't speak. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u38	Thanks again. I wasn't going out, but, well, just to be clear. No, I'm not going to argue either. Sure, let's see if we're clear. Parliaments and the Government are different institutions, which are sometimes coordinated in certain areas. Don't come to me protest because there are three different bodies. Of course there are three bodies! Because there are three different outlaws! There are three different outlaws! And there are three different road organizations! Because this country is organized that way. And it's okay. And they coordinate well enough. And, in fact, they have a fire prevention plan. The fire prevention plan is the important thing. It's not a fire investigation plan, it's a fire prevention plan. That's what makes them exist less and less necessary to investigate. But initially, to investigate, it is done by the one who is in charge of directly preventing the fire, and of extinguishing it, which is the parliament. And if he finds a possible crime, he'll pass it on. What will be a crime of different characteristics? It can be environmental, that's where there's a difference: what is environmental surveillance and forest surveillance. Fire surveillance does not necessarily have to do with guards of environmental crime subjects. The fire is not an environmental crime by itself. It's not! It may be, but it isn't. And in that I agree with Mrs López de Ocariz. You've already said, most fires, who provokes them. Look, it's not like that. The greatest fire reduction in this country has been caused by the ban on the burning of creeps. When the fire was banned, the fires were greatly reduced. And from there we can deduce: Was it provoked? No, no, There were bad mistakes. Because I myself can tell you: "And that fire to which you have referred from the eucalyptal next to Petronor... A lot of people in an eucalyptus... Those of Equo, the ecologists have burned it." Of course, those simple, frivolous conclusions cannot be made, cannot be made! So, be careful. And finally, it turns out that there's an outside parliament that seems to have good research. Oh, by chance! Gipuzkoa's has done well in spite of his own parliament. It is the curls that raised the flag of "we are going to be the ones to investigate even though the Member does not want, and we have done so". Look, I don't go there, I don't go there: the parliament has its responsibility, it will be the ones who vote, they will have their debates on what we do in one way or another, but there is no forest investigation brigade against the opinion of the corresponding Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mr. Arzuga? Yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u40	Yes, from my seat, if you'll excuse me. I shouldn't have said anything. Mr. Tellegioía, I've got the information I've got, jam it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u41	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. After discussion, we'll vote together the original text of the proposition as well as the Podemos. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 28; the contrary, 44; the abstainments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u42	So, not allowed original text. Next, we'll vote for the American popular Euscalia Socialists and Euzia Abertarians in the middle of the media signed by the teams. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 44; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u43	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Popula team, Carmelus Barrio Barroja, in the National Medical System of the Therapy Progress Plan of Ekibita. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio Barroja of the Basque Groups has the word to present and defend. bario barroja On November 15th, my group raised an inquiry with the Health Adviser regarding advanced therapies in the National Health System – specifically with CAR medicines – with this plan of approach and, then, with what from here, from this Autonomous Community... to know, try to know how the measures were being implemented in relation to this issue. Well, and know what that process was. There are many and abundant references to specialized journalism in relation to these questions from a time to this part, indeed. And we put forward that initiative, first of all, to know what Osakidetza was working on in relation to this type of advanced therapies... And we were also drawn to the fact that no hospital on our Osakidetza network was part of the hospitals accredited by the ministry to treat patients with CAR therapies. There are many hospitals, there are 11: Vall d'Hebron, Clinic, Santa Creu i Sant Pau and Sant Joan de Deu in Catalonia, but there is also La Fé and the University of Valencia; the Gregorio Marañón, the Niño Jesús, in Madrid; the Complex of Salamanca, in Castile León; Virgen del Rocío in Andalusia; Doctor Negrín in the Canary Islands. But there wasn't a hospital inside those accredited ones. In the interpellation it was already said that so far it had not been possible, but that work was being done on the accreditation of the University Hospital... lehendakariak Mesedity, isiltasuna. Baroja neighborhood ... Donostia University Hospital for this accreditation and to work with CAR therapies, with advanced therapies in this case. And the Donostia Hospital, and Biodonostia also as a reference, research and support, of course, to this work. That is, we remembered – and I do it again in this motion – that advances in precision medicine and adaptation to the individual characteristics of each patient will be, would be decisive in the treatment-healing of serious diseases such as cancer. Among these advances, treatment with cell therapy should be highlighted, advanced therapies that are based on the collection, modification of the immune cells of the patients to treat their own pathology. The arrival of these therapies also meant an improvement in the quality and life expectancy of patients, a challenge for national health systems. And in that sense we also said that the political consensus reflected in constructive initiatives is essential, precisely, in order to continue to build in an efficient way the development of this science and of these scientific advances – in this case medical or clinical – in our country. Among the cellular therapy drugs, we recalled that there is a family generically called "CAR", and when patients' modified T-lymphocytes are used, which is called "CAR-T". "CAR-T", with "T" final. The manufacturing process may be under the standard of hospital exemption or industrial manufacturing. Well, they're reference elements, for the manufacturing process of them. The implementation of these new therapies also requires an interesting, multidisciplinary work between different departments, between different hospital services, for their correct implementation and for the development of the entire process: extraction of the patient's cells, modification and transformation into medicines of the same ones and proper management of the medicine obtained, which goes through the proper conservation, dispensation, administration, management of side effects and concomitant therapies. In addition, the importance of traceability and pharmacovigilance in the process with this type of therapy should be considered at all times. The European Medicines Agency recommended the first two CAR cell marketing updates recently in 2018. The treatment is already available in Spain against two types of cancers: leukemia, we remembered, lymphoblastic leukemia, and lymphoma, lymphoma B, which we also remembered. And about those two diseases because you work with these kinds of therapies. We also recalled that the Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare approved a year ago, in November 2018, the Plan for Approaching Advanced Therapy in the National Health System: CAR Drugs. In other words, the national nature of the plan ensures equity and, in particular, traceability. In this regard, efficiency measures must be enhanced to finance these new therapies. The Advanced Therapy Approach Plan was and is intended to "organize the use of CAR drugs in a planned, equitable, safe and efficient manner, and the current CAR-T, in the National Health System, as well as promoting public research and the own and public manufacture of these medicines within the National Health System, i.e. "under conditions that guarantee standards of quality, safety and effectiveness". And that is the fundamental element, and that is why it is also important to have that plan as a reference. And to that plan, who are called? Well, in that line, it is up to the autonomous communities to guarantee the mechanisms and enhance the resources necessary for the implementation of the plan. The implementation of this will also require the adaptation of important, innovative, management agreements, in order to be able to dispose of these medicines in a sustainable way, the implementation of risk-sharing agreements in their different modalities, ceiling of expenditure, payment for results, financial strategies, i.e., payment for obtaining partial results... Well, a whole series of organizational issues, also important, that have to be implemented in the application of these kinds of therapies. We must remember – and I am finally doing so – that the application of advanced therapies is the last hope for those patients to whom only palliative care can be applied. It should be noted that in the case of childhood cancer between 80 and 90% of children with leukemia to which we have referred, lymphoblastic, are cured with intense chemotherapy or bone marrow transplants, that is, they are cured like this, but there are very few options for patients who do not respond to these treatments. And there's where there's a room for action with these kinds of therapies. In addition, in the future it will complement and develop... Progress is also being made very quickly in the implementation of this type of advanced therapies. And we have to be prepared, don't we? That was, of course, the object of our motion. We tabled a slightly broader motion: we were talking about guaranteeing the centre of reference... Looks like we're already working on it. Well, let's trust that it will be and that it will be soon, in relation to that accreditation of the University Hospital of Donostia and also with Biodonostia as an element, as an important research factor. Let's hope he's accredited soon, with all the other hospitals on the network, right? That these processes be addressed within, through training and implementation, the preparation of professionals. On that issue, we also wanted to ensure... , Osakidetza, that organizational model, to ensure the therapeutic issues in particular, to equip economically – we understand that it is yours – and of course to enhance research. In some ways, even though all this is not said in the motion, we have understood that this spirit that we wanted is taken up, the spirit that the implementation of this issue was a priority, that we had this guarantee that the Basque Government will take it seriously and that, first and foremost through the accreditation of the hospital, from there all these kinds of therapies will be put in place and, for that very reason, there is the motion that we have signed all the parliamentary groups. I suppose the non-amendants too will join the same, because it's important too... We were talking in the text, and they have done so in other parliaments too, of a political consensus, which is also important to favor this kind of therapy, because we will understand that they will be expensive, that they will sometimes be meeting general requirements... In that sense, it will be good if we move towards unanimity. What did we say in the signed amendment? For "to give priority to the latest technologies and the most innovative treatments that are being developed in the diagnosis and fight against cancer" – it is clear that the therapies we are talking about are being installed there – and that "to continue to promote the necessary measures to deepen the knowledge and application of the new therapies, with particular emphasis on CAR-T medicines". Well, logically, we'd talked about it here, and everything goes through that accreditation from the center. Let's hope it's ready. In that regard, we will, of course, vote in favour of the agreement reached. In addition, we recalled this in the interpellation, the Plan for the Approach to Advanced Therapy of the National Health System: CAR drugs also contains a number of questions that fall within the competence of the autonomous communities: their integration into many of the forums, the fields, the commissions of research, treatment, the organization of all this kind of therapy, and it is good that, of course, our Community, which has always been a pioneer, has always been at the forefront, because it does not lose, does not lag too far in relation to this new scientific, medical advance, which, of course, does what it does to save lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u44	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u45	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. To promote the investigation of child cancer, we've started a whole meeting with a song, and, by chance, we're talking about cancer and research this time. It was a nice gesture this morning, but the decisions that are really effective about cancer are taken here in the government, or in the right time to negotiate budgets. In the National Medical System, we're discussing the advance therapy plan at the moment. I must confess that I am unable to speak of property in so exact a technical and so precise a manner. So I'll tell you what logic says. And logic tells us that when we introduce an initiative about cancer, any organization, any government, we should ask the latest technology, new treatment, and all resources, especially if we consider that at the present day the whole of the world is now the chief death despair among the Basques. Precision medicine, personalized therapies, CAR –T medicines, in this case–... Drugs, the latter, aimed at two types of cancer – as Mr Barrio has said – very specific. These therapies act through the lymphocytes that once extracted and reprogrammed will serve to fight cancer. It is a very specific issue, as I said at the beginning of my speech; it is a treatment that is still at a very early stage and that requires good planning both at the level of hospital infrastructure and equipment, as well as human resources. Welcome be any progress, any research aimed at the cure of cancer, but let us not forget, as we always say, that in addition to the current treatments, or those that may come in the future, as it is this case, we must strive to implement policies of prevention, early diagnosis, because that is undoubtedly the best investment in health. We could talk for hours about this, about the current Oncological Plan, about its degree of compliance, about the needs of patients, about the situation of hospital facilities, about the healthcare professionals who care for these sick and sick, about the shortcomings and improvements that need to be made in terms of the more conventional treatments... I am sure that around all these issues we could put forward many initiatives and, in most cases, reach agreements as we have done on more than one occasion in this House. But with all due respect, Mr. Barrio, we don't understand the motion of the motion, we don't see any need to discuss anything that doesn't have a career, and I'll explain myself. I followed your interpellation to the chief of department and that Friday you received answers. You know better than you know what he's doing to apply these treatments and the protocols that have to be put on for that. It is evident, that to apply these new therapys, a network must be built between investigators and a proper infrastructure, including the others. And this process demands time and planning because all criteria to get acres must be fulfilled. And we think that's what he's doing just like that. Therefore, it will be the Donostia University Hospital, together with Biodonostia, the center that participates in CAR-T therapies. In other words, the centre is designated, as is the network of researchers who will participate in this project, staff belonging to OSI Donostialdea. That is why, after knowing the planning and the intentions of the department with regard to the application of these therapies, we did not see it too convenient, with all due respect, as I say, this motion. It is our job to control and drive the Government through our initiatives, but we sincerely believe that there is no relevant momentum at this time. Therefore, in our opinion, the medium we have signed is merely an expression, because what we ask of the Government is what we're doing. But it's not wrong to sign such expressions sometimes, even if it's only a hint of unanimousness. That's why we're asking the Medical Department to give priority to the new technology that are developing to diagnose cancer and to the reforming treatments. In addition, besides paying special attention to CAR medicines, we ask him to continue the knowledge of new therapy against cancer and to penetrate deeper into the application. All this, of course, in the Public Health System to ensure that we have complete access to theological care. And then, to finish, we'll manage slowly to develop cancer from chronic disease and to increase the hope of living sick people. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u47	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. As Mr Carmelo Barrio has said, and also Mrs Blanco, in the past full of control, Mrs Murga already proposed to us what had to do with the Plan of Approach to Advanced Therapy in the National Health System: CAR medicines. We all share the need to continue to focus on everything that improves the health of our citizens and, therefore, the commitment of the Basque Government, what was being done and what was the Government's position on this issue. Therefore, I do not know whether this type of initiative is appropriate or not, as Mrs Blanco told us, but I do not think it is necessary to use all the intervention time to explain what these medicines are, what they are used for, what precision medicine means, and what is all that it takes for a government to invest its public budget to improve the health of its citizens. The Socialist Group therefore intervenes in this plenary only to congratulate us on the agreement reached and to understand that anything that will improve the quality of life of citizens will, of course, be supported by this group and by this Parliament. As I say, I don't think it's necessary to give a master class about what this means and what everything that the counselor explained to us in full control means. We will therefore vote in favour, as there was no doubt, since we have signed the compromise amendment, and we will continue to work in this plenary and in the Health Committee on everything that can bring about improvements, but, as I say, it is not always necessary to present parliamentary initiatives in what only affects what Mrs Murga already proposed to us in her day. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u48	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, we also agree with that agreement which has been accomplished by Carmelus Barrio upon this enterprise. Those who have spoken before me have spoken well; I will not repeat it again. I think when the interpolation was addressed to the chief physician, several questions were proposed, and, well, his answers were explained. He explained what the attitude of the Medical Department was about this subject; he explained what these advanced therapy situations in our public health system are now, and what initiative they were pushing from the Medical Department, the University Hospital, and even about the entire network of investigations... So I think today's subject of discussion isn't clear enough. I think it's remarkable, or very significant, this agreement we've made today. Well, Mrs. Blanco has finally explained what it is, hasn't she? This, in the end, is more than an initiative for discussion or for domestic work in the government, and has been able to make an expression. So we must say for ourselves that we are glad of this medium which we have obtained. We're also also glad to be once, for all we've learned, that together the Podemos will support this middle course. And so we want to thank all the teams.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. Sweets. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u51	Mrs. Tejeria, Mr. President, chief physician, compañeros y compañeras parlamentarians: Indeed, this is a complex issue, it is one of the reasons why we have not made any comment on the motion. And it is not necessary to note that the majority of parliamentarians do not have adequate and sufficient information on this complex innovative issue of new immunocellular cancer therapies. There are some complex issues, from the scientific point of view, which is a bit strange to reach parliaments all over the world – also ours – but which need to be addressed because they are political and, in addition, carry important budgets. Having said that, indeed, there is no master class to give, but to raise the two fundamental issues that, in my view, are behind the decision that we have supported and that we all support parliamentary groups in the motion, which is that the Basque Government and the Department of Health should be incorporated into the processes of innovative CAR drug therapies. So far, we have had three methods of combating cancer: chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery. Not more than five years has the genomic system entered, especially in the immunocellular area, as a treatment. A novelty. It's a never-seen healing potential. And it's expensive. And it's just the beginning of the main immunocellular cancer therapy. The two topics that I think are most relevant are cost and protocols. A treatment of cancer immunocellular therapy linked to CAR drugs currently costs approximately $400,000 a year. This is just the beginning. Therefore, the motion's request to the Basque Government, our request to incorporate it into the innovative processes of accreditation of centres, accreditation of laboratories, co-management of protocols, etc., is also an invitation to the Basque Government to incorporate it into the Ministry's pricing policy. Price-setting policy, especially for new medicines, is very complicated – it can blow up the boxes of public health systems – where the Basque Government has to give its opinion. Price-setting committees are not in the ministry the best, most transparent and most democratic decision-making in health policies; the other way around. These new therapies, and the new Strategic Plan for Advanced Therapy for its newly approved funding, invite you to use new pricing methods and to discuss with multinational pharmaceutical companies – in this case Novartis and Gilead, which have raised these drugs on the market – to discuss their prices and, above all, to discuss the results. An application called The Therapeutic Value of Medicines, Valtermed, is already being created, which is an information system that indicates health outcomes after the application of these drugs to the right patients. As it is said, "measurement of results", which the Basque Government is already in, and its Directorate-General of Pharmacy. We are also talking about participating in the Pricing Committee. It's a problem. Of course, if you see the procedure where your lymphocytes are sent to U.S. labs, 120 degrees below zero for freezing, and there they are genetically modified, and they return to Donostia Hospital, so that the lymphocytes themselves are genetically modified, enter the same patient, so that a destruction of tumor cells can be organized from the cellular point of view... Indeed, it is a complex matter, from the financial point of view. Not only complex, but since the CAR hospital committee – which we have not yet accredited; hopefully the Donostia hospital is next – proposes a patient for this type of medication – with acute lymphoblastic leukemia or with a diffuse B lymphoma of large cells, which are the two therapeutic measures for these drugs – the ministry has to respond in seven days; in 15-20 days it has to do apheresis – the apheresis is to draw blood from the patient and separate the white blood cells and lymphocytes from the rest of the blood – to send it to the laboratory from those who have produced the medication, who are Novartis and Gilead; one month until the medication arrives; a week of preparation for the patient, and their own genetically modified lymphocytes are injected again. Between two and three months from patient selection to transfusion. In our view, it is a complex process. All the consultations we have made about hospital pharmacy, pharmacy inspection and pharmacy management are all very attentive to these processes, both of the duration of treatment and the possibility of negotiating prices, as well as the ability of laboratories to adapt to the negotiation processes. This is the first reflection. And the second reflection, and I finish, is that the protocol that organizes the process of care for patients who need, especially children, with leukemia, who are spectacularly cured, or with lymphoma, must be determinant of the process of care, determinant of the organization of the hematology and laboratory services of accredited hospitals. I remember that there are eight accredited hospitals – plus the Hospital Negrin de Canarias – and so far we have had, have produced 59 patients since March 8, of which 27 patients have been treated throughout the Spanish state. And it is expected, with increased accreditation of hospitals to make equitable access to new innovative immunocellular medicines for cancer, between 100 patients for leukemia and 500-800 for lymphoma. Multiply. Therefore, the proper and rational use of protocols in the selection of patients, in the organisation of services, in the criteria for the administration of medicinal products, in the measurement of results should be essential. These medicines are not for cancer, they are for two types of cancer. They're not for all leukemias, not all... It is for a type of leukemia: acute refractory lymphoblastic, which is very effective. Therefore, we are glad that this motion, as it could not otherwise be... You know our position that most of the logical issues that defend Basque public health must be grounds for compromise in this House. We're always defending him and we're gonna keep defending him. We support this motion. We thank Carmelo Barrio, comrade Barrio, for his willingness to discuss. We thank –eskerrik asko, Kerman – Kerman for Kerman Orbegozo's willingness to attempt consensus on a simple measure, which is that the Basque Government has an active role in organizing the main immunocellular cancer therapy that we currently have in the country and in the world. Just the warnings. The organic goose paste Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u52	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Is anyone willing to join us on the answer shift? Anyone? End of discussion, we're going to vote for the Basque Popula, the Basque Socialists, the EH and the Eubertians signed semi-correction. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 72; the opponents are 0,0; Abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u53	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Grow up the proposition as the parliamentary band made, concerning the renewing of the new housing buildings. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Team proposeer's turn. Ms. Ottagon, representative of the EHG team, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. We've just celebrated the international day of Euskar, I'd like to make a small homage to the old language that makes me so proud as a Basque. I want to put the treasure in the orchard, show how rich it is, even with a little sample. To speak of me, as I always wish to do, I will insist. I always insist upon a more formal or regular expression, but this time, in my first place, I shall speak the language of my mother in the language of her mother, in the language of the Odain of Amez, that she may be received by my parents. In my opinion, I shall speak in my second chapters, barriffs, vicissitudes, Estal speech, my ein doctrine, or the fine language that is in me, my Semimilitur, in the course of the doves. It's been said once more that the problem with the housing is how big it is. There has been a great deal of difficulties in the last years, connected with domestic productions, in the difficulty of finding them in the possession of a rental, by the difficulties which it finds in its possession, or in its possession, or in the maintenance of the house which has a hand in the rent. The public has been discovered in the affairs of the multitude, and especially in those which find them in troublesome situations. A free market house is impossible for many collectives, and the offer to hire a public protection is so small that it is impossible for us to answer suitable requests. A lot of people are concerned with a financial problem in the housing. And the most effective solution for all of us is to increase the rental public park until it is clear. And that's where the resources should be enough. Well, unfortunately, the money he takes in this isn't enough. The other chief thing is to be considered at a price of rent, and that which has already taken, or has already, so many measures, and so many other measures, may be disputed. The preference is to increase the offer at rent, that the markets may regulate the prices in proportion. The use of all the houses of the void must be restored to them, by placing them at the reasonable price of a hand that is necessary to you. For this reason, the contractation is very good, and the tax measure which the attorney can take on the means of conducting a rental. It's another alternative to limit the rental prices in the area where it's stretched. He has just presented himself in this very law, and he will be more able to discuss it. It's a matter of fact that all you're telling me is not enough because you're in the public because you're worried about it. It must be the function of government to answer the demands of the public in proportion to what is possible. Such is the intention of this lawlike proposition: to answer a petition that is in society, to answer it. The model of domestic and co-operative intercourse does not answer the wants and wants of many, nor doubt that it is necessary to promote other examples, that it is necessary to promote new domestic and co-operation patterns. He can answer to the wants of those who are in society, and choose to give them to the young men who live in a precolycised condition, for instance, a new and ancient watch-fight in the crowd, for instance, an alternate life of pre-eminent care. Geo and much more is the chance of the new model of housing, of the citizens on the road to another model of life, and of finding a suitable answer for the non-committical administration. We've been able to follow a number of scenes. Each one of them would like to take a hand, or to communicate his projects. Of our own we had the Kooperative Amth, the representative of the Abarisians, and the commons, who speak to us of many other groups. They all come from different realities, they know the same end: they were driven by the co-operative housing of the abandoned uses. Day after day the representatives of the community will be able to listen to the initutant, the homes between grown-up and mature persons, the cohowing. Alderman of Orereta-Renyx stood by our side and stood before his villages up Marana. Ta Usurbili alkatia bet he stood here, handritien datilla. I've been trying to get an explanation in this other proposition, as if it were a matter of discussion to-day. Well, I'm glad you're seeing me and encouraging us to this project. It's not like it was in the first place that you got what you've been telling them was in it, just say it's too much for you in this half-way proposal. In the first place, I'm asking you to follow me up on the news of the housing, to search and establish new models that fit the needs of demands, and especially to encourage the co-operative use which it gives to the co-operative possession of co-operative stock. So, for this one, reflection, discussion, and other experience must be produced by spasms of contrast. Or in order to develop the initiations of domestic housing (the collaboration of domestic life) by defining a legal frame. Eo Cohousingari And in a second place, I'm asking you to follow me to the management and integration of the institutions of politics, to facilitate the co-operation of citizens, but in the end it's the purpose of helping the new model of housing from the townships, especially the seniors and the bearers in co-operation of the firm or the housing. On the one hand, the town councils were oriental and councilal and, on the other hand, they were beginning to support their projects, or the financial aid which they had begun. Hope dot from the government be in their hands what they can do to promote such projects. It is a matter of fact, that we have been able to make it a very easy way for this half-rational proposition. And we may have shared or shared them to our feet, because between the contests there is a fair wager for this. On the side of the government, seeing that this bet is a fair match for the new housing models, or at least it has been expressed in the Housing Plan, in the direction of the guide, but, well, it's plain that we're a bit different from it. Then I think it would be a great advance to what we've got here on this half-way proposal, one day, because this demand is considered important to us and would be ready to be enough for this. He must therefore be on his guard to see if what he has received in this other proposal goes on. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u55	Thank you, My Lady Mount. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours. becer carollo Collecting EH has brought in another proposal as today to protect the new housing models and our team agrees with this proposal. We're on the side of it. We're on the side. I mean: So that the soil could be carried forward by these initiatives. We agree with the initial spirit of the EH Bildu group's proposal that new housing models should be promoted, because in some way – in some way and in any way – they solve the housing-related problems of the 21st century. On the one hand, the difficulty in accessing and, on the other hand, responding to new needs and habits of life. The difficulty in accessing young people is seen as the age of emancipation in Euskadi is 29 years, while the average in Europe is 26, Sweden is 19, or Finland is 21. And that difficulty in access to property is because of the average salary of a young person, if he asks for a mortgage, he has to allocate at least 50% and, if he is on rent, he has to allocate at least 70%. But it also solves problems related to new needs and habits of life – in this case older people – such as loneliness, shared care or the need for social relationships. Because let's not forget, let's not forget that 70% of teleassistance calls in this country are alone. And that there are 244,000 people living alone in this country, that is, 27% of households, of whom around 42% are over 65 years of age and around 70% are women. Therefore, the new housing models, called "shared housing", called "cooperatives in assignment of use", called "grouped housing" or "intergenerational cohabitation", allow us to respond to these new problems that we have. Moreover, they all have common characteristics, as Mrs Otamendi explained. On the one hand, they avoid speculation about housing and, on the other hand, they moderate the unsustainable use of scarce resources, such as land and housing, because they allow them to be shared, which is a very sustainable model that we have to adopt. And these examples, by answering questions, encourage the active part of the citizens, by means of the management of property, by sharing watches, or by cultivate human relations. And in the case of the older ones, they are opposed to solitude, to ennui, to the development of new powers, and to impotence. And in the younger men, they seem to give the execution, to encourage responsibility, commitment, and friendship. That's the integration process. In this debate, which we have already had in committee, the Government has raised legal difficulties in fitting the new housing models into the Housing Act 2015. Thus, it has come to say that "enabled accommodation" cannot be considered, because they are non-permanent housing needs and therefore cannot be applied to older persons. Nor can the public housing clauses be applied to it because some of the members of the shared housing promotion initiatives do not meet the requirements of having no housing or of having a maximum income limit. However, the Housing Act itself and, above all, the 2018-2020 Housing Master Plan does include these models within its requirements. Thus, the master plan, in line 5.1, includes the experiences of VPO in cession of use, in its action 5.1.4, "intergenerational coexistence initiatives", and in line 5.2, in action 5.2.1, "Support collaborative housing initiatives". Therefore, we need to look for the legal framework in order for the Housing Act, or the interpretation of the Housing Act, to fit into something that the Housing Master Plan itself envisages as necessary. And we understand that the council center is the best way to start these initiatives. But the protection of the government is indispensable in that way. On the one hand, clearing legal difficulties, as has been said, by a decree and a decree. Secondly, We need protection by placing public soil or public buildings within reach of them. And thirdly, providing finances, providing subsidies, and helping to promote enterprises, as well as to promote the efforts which the townhouses have hitherto done. Our group therefore announces here our support for the joint housing drive transaction and also the intention and commitment to agree with the Government on financing measures to enable these initiatives to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u57	Thank you, ma'am. As a matter of fact, the Socialist Group had no doubt that we agreed in any of the main lines. As I always say, it's no point in the housing departments, and especially the funniest. The diagnosis we make is clearly clear: often it is not the easiest and not the best way to get the goal we want. And in order to accomplish these ends, we must often take other ways, we must start and protect ourselves, in order to deal with our diagnosis and our problems. And I think we're being posciists of all the groups we're in this legislature. And that's something to please you, too, because we have an engagement. And I think the diagnosis we have is clear and clear. We have problems, and we have detected problems, which we also share among the different groups that we are represented in this House. And we have two specific groups that have special difficulty accessing a home. On the one hand, it's young people and, on the other hand, it's older people. That has to force us to look for alternative tools that, many times, try also to look for other paths that are not the entry in confrontation, in clash with the market, that could probably extend us, could prolong that path in achieving the objective that we want to achieve. We need to put in place new models, new alternatives, new ways, new housing policies, which allow, for example, our young people to have an opportunity to be emancipated. Euskadi has a problem: young Basques have serious difficulties in being able to emancipate themselves. There are no housing alternatives, there is no price that is affordable and that allows these young people to have independence, a freedom to be emancipated and to have decent living conditions with pay, with the working conditions they have. And on the housing side it is logical that the government should try to promote rental policies and try to promote and try to collaborate with those initiatives that can allow, that can facilitate our young people to have an alternative to the market and have the possibility of being able to emancipate at an age that, more or less, is in line with the European average. And, on the other hand, we also have to redirect or we have to give alternatives to a way of conceiving the last stage, the last stage of the elderly, because, so far, culture, the concept we have had in this country – and at the general level – has been to face a final part of life with a series of care, with a series of attentions, in a series of determined conditions. But there are experiences that are showing us that, perhaps, there are other alternatives that are more possible and that allow us to face that final stretch of life in a way..., let's say that different, not less worthy, probably even more dignified, and in some possibilities of well-being that would have to envy those that we have traditionally conceived. We therefore have experiences that, in some ways, we understand as a parliamentary group that supports the Government, that can well be promoted, that can be protected, that can be a tool for achieving the objectives set out by this Government, and that, in some ways, too, are reflected in strategic axes 5 and 6 of the Housing Master Plan, which, while not specifically mentioned, as these new experiences are called, are no less true that they are, in some way, reflected. I therefore believe that in view of the Government's inability to offer an alternative or to cover 100% of that demand from these specific groups, it is no less true that the search for these new alternatives and the generation in Basque society of a new culture regarding the promotion of these new models of housing, of these new models that drive and seek to share a space that facilitates, as I said, both the independence of young people in seeking to leave their parents' home to start a new life project, and, also, to face, in the case of older people, the last stretch of their lives..., we understand that it is worth an effort on the part of the Government, which, on the other hand, has already reported that it is, of course, willing to do so. We therefore have an opportunity to promote and create a new culture in this society. I believe that the redirection of policies that are committed to renting is a good start, and I believe that I bet on these new initiatives, that most of the cases are germs, that most of the cases are projects that are taking their first steps, I think it is a good alternative to try to test what the situation is, what the problems are, what the problems can also be when it comes to having a legal fit within our current legal framework, to adapt, to improve it, to accommodate those housing alternatives and to be able to push them into a new commitment by this Government to achieve a more modern society, but above all with greater well-being and opportunities for its citizens. And for that, we understand that there are some issues that are particularly relevant and that are reflected in the compromise amendment that we have agreed on by all the amending groups, and it is the creation, first of all, of spaces for reflection, spaces for debate, above all that generate those expectations, that show those experiences and that invite society to know them. Through knowledge one can generate that culture of which he mentioned. We have to adapt, as I have said, the legal frameworks, because times change and, therefore, the law also has to adapt, it has to adapt and we have to see what legal fit certain projects have in certain circumstances. Therefore, we need to achieve some legal flexibility in seeking that fit within the legal framework that we have. We have to report. It is essential to inform society, to give support to our municipalities, which will be through our municipalities through whom we will probably get that closeness to the citizens in order to implement these projects, because administrative processing generally affects mainly the municipalities and it is through the municipalities, also from the knowledge, from the closeness of the reality of each municipality, from where they can also be promoted, supporting, of course, the financial initiatives. There are already some games that could allow it. Let us hope and hope that in the future these items can continue to grow so that these projects become a reality. And, of course, also contributing soil, which is increasingly scarcely owned in the case of the autonomous government, but in the case of many municipalities there is still a very negligible number of soils, of plots that may be destined for... Even buildings, which, as we have shown, as has been demonstrated through inter-institutional collaboration between the Government and the City Council, can contribute to the implementation of these projects. I therefore believe that we must congratulate ourselves, not only on the agreement we have found between the various parliamentary groups on this initiative, but above all because I believe that we are continuing to move forward, not only to have tools and instruments to support these initiatives, but, beyond that, so that Euskadi remains an example in housing policies that give our young people a greater opportunity for emancipation and to face the last stretch of life through projects that are worthy of the last few years of our elders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u58	Thank you, Mr. Donez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Well, today, our new housing model has presented us with an average of the law of promotement by the Basque Country. About new patterns, but specified, right? This action is, well, to focus on the cooperative use of the collective property. You say that it is necessary to promote those other examples of your own law, that it is necessary to promote the new buildings of the community and the habitations of society, which are founded on mutual intercourse, and to answer the necessities and desires of many people, and to say that the persons who make the choice of these new domestic productions are still more and more. We agree with this chief initiative, which is to encourage new housing buildings, we have, after all, received this paradox with innovation, and, in the middle of the road, we believe that this is not the only way. And, well, those of you who have spoken before me have precisely mentioned that there are many other examples. And so, in our corrections, we also received them. Shared housing, for example, just about the time before, a program that was being run was directed to young people, a program that could have been the first chance to produce. And that for the grown-ups' housing, too: because your apartment, because it is not suitable for several reasons, can be left in rent and benefited by a public house. And, of course, we agree with encourageing these cooperative cooperatives, with all the examples we have of them. And that's how we picked it up. I used to say, you got them, you talk about needs and desires. I believe that in the subject of the housing from public institutions, and in most other matters, our object is to answer, and to give them an appropriate answer. Will? Yeah. Well, everyone can have a different way of living. But I think we have to answer our needs first. Then, answering the necessity, if we give an answer to your will.... Well, then, isn't it? And perhaps these new examples may have that end. New models are also received at the Housing Guide. And I think it is proper to quit by tradition this binomy between rent and possession, because other examples combine different formulas or elements. Well, then, a little to go beyond the traditional example. What we said before, the homes. To encourage the life of generations: It's just that there's only one person who has a flat in the property. There is a question of loneliness here... A young man may either need or wish to leave his house. And there can also be a chance for those two people in that life together. He who combines the bond and hires, the formula which we know as though it were sufficiently extended in Catalonia: a number of old buildings, which are about to fall; a man who has need of the house may renew it, and be able to live in it by a rent. We know, like, the wooden housing or the flats of the "partialments," which are directed to the young. Because it may be the first opportunity, and also the giving. Or why not? For the leading people. And here, Mr. Becerra has said well, that we are a little in a limbo as a rule, because these examples are not regulated by all these examples, or by all their desires and needs. And in the middle, not in the coousing cohowing Cohowusing. This was from the instinctive side, but afterwards we were told by other young families, which had already been advanced. And they all agreed in this, too: You know, there's a lot of difficulties in the regulations, the tramation. And, well, I think that from institutions we may be of service to any one who chooses such a choice, at least, to have as little difficulty as possible in this world as possible. And then there were councils: From the Redery and the Usurbil. The project is already in motion during the reign of the regiment. The boars, that's where, well, they're about to start. And I think we should be able to tell the difference. On the one hand, cohowing in private initiative I think that's also been recorded in the Housing Guide, and it's talked about car pilots. And I think there's a lot left to think about this thing and make decisions. The Housing Law, in its third additional regulation, also makes a definition; what cohowing is And finally, in our middle course, we're working together with the organizations. I think it's necessary that the councils should participate, not only from the housing grounds, but from the social services. The story of old age has been mentioned how to live in that last period of life. There's already a lot of low-income housing from social services. That's a different housing model, too. Well, to share all these experiences in common, and give such an appropriate answer to what is necessary to them all. So I would like to explain our agreement, no: we have signed the middle-way. We generally agree that these new buildings must be explored and operational, and must also be attended to by the institutions. But I'd like to remark that there are many new examples. Especially when we have organizations to answer our needs. If we are able to reconcile needs and desires, still better, but always in the right way, confirming the equality of opportunity, which is not? in answer to their wants, they combine their rights, their wants, and their desires in the best possible manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing over to the group that hasn't been running, the Basque Popular Group. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u61	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. As the proposal almost points out at the beginning, the problem of housing, access to housing, has been discussed on many occasions in this House. Because... And I hope with this I don't create controversy. Although it did seem that the adoption of the Housing Act was going to be the panacea and that it was going to solve absolutely all the issues, we see that in many plenary sessions problems continue to arise, problems that we have to face in order to solve them. Well, as has been said here, sometimes because of the difficulty of accessing the most vulnerable people, or because of the youth – as Mr Becerra also said, that emancipation is very late in Euskadi – or because of the lack of economic resources or by older people who are looking for other housing formulas, right? "There are also, sometimes, problems for people who do not have so much vulnerability..., that is, having resources that do not allow them to go to sheltered housing, however, they also have problems because in the free market, sometimes, prices are high – but – and I do not agree with Mrs Berasaluze in this – it is not only about meeting needs or meeting needs, but also desires. It means that what we cannot do from institutions is impose a certain formula and, when other life formulas are chosen to solve needs, as has been said here, that they can be the access of young people or older people, or simply because they want to live in another way, the institutions have to be not only to push, but also sometimes to regulate it. And to give guarantees to these new housing models that, on many occasions, respond to new life philosophies. This movement was born in Denmark – that is, nothing new has been invented either – in the 1960s-70s, in which classical systems are in crisis and other models and housing formulas are beginning to develop. And they began, above all, on the part of the elderly, to look for self-contained accommodation with common facilities. That way cohousing is born There are, as has been said here, different formulas. On the one hand, it may be the cohousing senior cohousing, In Spain, for example, the Congress of Deputies, in 2017, unanimously approved an initiative of the People's Party, with contributions then from the Socialist Party, the Joint Group and Citizens, which referred precisely to these new models of coexistence among older people born as a result of the growth of life expectancy and the high rate of older people living alone, as has also been said here. And in 2018, through Royal Decree 106/2018, the State Housing Plan already includes a program to promote housing for older people in this cohousing mode And it's that cohousing experiences True, they comment, there is a way to go, because they face multiple difficulties. On many occasions, the lack of affordable soil; sometimes, the lack of knowledge of the model, not only sometimes, on the part of the institutions, but on the part of the politicians themselves... I must admit that, although, by approach, I knew it, to prepare this initiative, because I have been studying this model and, indeed, it is very interesting and very broad. And sometimes, as I said, this ignorance comes to the municipalities themselves, which, when ideas are raised on a certain ground to be carried out, or is asked for public ground for a certain project, because, on many occasions, that lack of knowledge, precisely, what it creates is distrust, isn't it? So, I think, in that sense, the more knowledge you have, so much better. Because, on many occasions, the laws are, well, for certain projects, for certain formulas, and as soon as a novel one is introduced, because sometimes it is difficult to give legal coverage and give security. Because, many times, it is not only at the beginning, at the start, but also at the problems that may arise during the development of the life of that new model and of that new project. Moreover, in Spain, in the different autonomous communities, there are different regulations, but even tax treatment different from this type of housing. In some they are charged VAT, in others they are not charged. So, I think, in that sense, giving security, because it is good because, in that way, more confidence is generated. In Euskadi, and we could see it here when different associations appeared in the committee, because more or less the same process has taken place and the same problems and difficulties have been raised to some extent. For example, in February of last year we knew that in Zorrozaurre it is precisely planned to build a housing promotion in cooperatives for older people on public land and on rent. With this, we see that the institutions themselves are becoming involved in this issue. Then there are associations that are not in the public sphere, but in the third sector, but that have interesting projects, right? Here they appeared, precisely, to pose these formulas of cohousing So, for example, to mention those who appeared here, for Egunsentia told us about cohousing They also came from Elkarbidean, whose main objectives were the search for forms of accommodation and coexistence and the promotion of models of intervention with older people. But they also came from other areas not so much related to older people, such as Ametse or Abaraxka, or we also had experiences of municipalities, as, it has been said here, that of Rentery and that of Usurbil. They all came to explain the advantages that, in their view, this model had within the housing sphere. On the one hand, it allowed access to decent and durable housing, and, in some cases, cheaper than other formulas, both for young people and for families and older people, combining private and community spaces. They also came to talk to us about the advantage of such an assignment of use formula, which, on many occasions, allowed anyone who went to that house not to ask for a mortgage and that, sometimes, the monthly amount to be paid is even lower than the rents that are being paid out there. It was also, to a certain extent, a brake on speculation. For the institutions, supporting these models, in addition to an active housing policy, could also involve an active policy, as we have said, of older people, right? And sometimes also – unless the soil is brought in, but even sometimes also providing the soil – public investment in housing was reduced. But not only for the advantages of the model itself, but also for society itself and for institutions, as I say, had advantages. They also put us on the table..., and that is where we came to make those proposals that were then collected within the original initiative, and that I believe has been improved with the compromise amendment that has been signed, they came to raise the same problems that were raised in the rest of Spain, trying, well, to find solutions, which is true that it is not always easy, because, as Mr Becerra said, sometimes to fit it, and it has also been said here, to fit it into the current housing law is not easy. But I think it can be done. To try to avoid such administrative confusion between the model and its characteristics, to provide security and legal coverage, and to create such an inclusive legal framework to facilitate such actions in the territory. Therefore, I believe that, from the institutions, we can and should help and collaborate with these new models, even looking from the institutions for the implementation of new models. And, for this – as proposed in the amendment – creating spaces for reflection and sharing experiences that have been given elsewhere, we believe it is something positive. It is also important, and I said it before, advice and information, because they are novel models. So, on many occasions, those fears that can awaken at first, with information and advice...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u62	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u63	Yeah, I'm finishing up. ...can be perfectly eliminated. And then, as I say, and that is the second point, take the initiative from the institutions themselves, fundamentally, helping the municipalities, so that this type of new housing formulas not only respond to needs, but also to desires, and that, in the end, there is legal certainty in their beginning and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u64	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Does anyone want to be a part of the answers shift? After discussion, we'll vote EH, Euskal Socialists, and together we'll have the middle-class correction signed by the Podemos and the Eunciators. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters 73; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u65	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. The fifth point in the theme list. To discuss these other proposals of law together, and to take up the final resolution: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group of people, to receive the emigrants and the refugees of the refugees of the euscal system," and the other proposal of "Punciations of the Parlamentary Hosts," about the defence of the human rights of the emigrants and the refugees of the refugees of the refugees." Team proposeer's turn. Mr Ruiz, representing the Podemos team together, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u66	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. President. Today's the first time I've had a chance to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u67	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u68	...to defend a non-law proposal in this Parliament and I would like to begin by devoting part of my time to sharing...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u69	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u70	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the enormous work of all the organizations and entities that are working very hard on maritime rescue, refugee camps or setting up host and solidarity networks throughout the Basque Country. Some representatives of these organizations and entities are accompanying us today in this plenary and I would like to thank them. Secondly, if we are to talk like today about parliamentary initiatives around migration, I think it is rigorous to remember and recognize the enormous work that has been done by Elkarrekin's colleague We can see that the witness has passed me in this chamber, Tinixara Guanche. In just three years, there are more than 40 initiatives developed, presented and defended by my colleague on migration and refugees, no less than 95% of all initiatives that have been dealt with in this institution on this issue in this legislature. I am not going to dwell on the details of all the work done to date because there would not be enough time to do so: there are more than 40 initiatives, including appearances to open Parliament to social organizations, to expert persons and to great advocates of rights, such as Helena Maleno; a multitude of requests for information; questions, and inquiries, but also eight non-legislative proposals with concrete measures on migration. Eight PNLs that from Elkarrekin We have presented and defended and in 7 of which – almost all of them – we have managed to reach agreements in this chamber. The first of these agreements was achieved by the start of the legislature on 22 December 2016. That day we urge "to ensure that all refugees arriving in Euskadi have access to rights regardless of their origin" or route of entry. The institutions of the European Union were also called upon to establish secure channels. An agreement was subsequently reached with concrete measures to facilitate the nationalization of migrants in Euskadi. Then, in May 2017, an agreement was reached also in relation to the European Union in the European Agenda for Migration. It also unanimously agreed on an initiative to give impetus to the Basque Immigration Strategy with Horizon 2020. In addition, the Chamber has reached agreements on the return of emigrants from Euskadi to other parts of the world, agreements on trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, and, more recently, an agreement has been reached with measures to improve the reception of migrants and refugees. This, in my view, also deserves recognition, recognition of the efforts of all parliamentary groups to reach agreements and to find what unites us. In Elkarrekin We can, of course, have the will to continue advancing in this line and with the hand stretched out for joint work and agreement. It is essential to promote concrete policies, measures and solutions, even more so at this time in which the extreme right-wings are gaining an unusual presence in the institutions of the European continent. The political forces that defend democracy and human rights must send a unanimous, clear and firm message to the whole of society and, in particular, to those who pose migrants as a threat. Unfortunately, falsehood, xenophobia, racism, classism and morophobia are increasingly flooding political discourses and messages in order to achieve party performance. This enormous responsibility has direct, disembodied and terrifying consequences, as happened yesterday when they threw an explosive grenade inside a centre of foreign girls and children. In the face of such a wave of hatred, it is even more important that we in this House have been able to put the rights of migrants and refugees before our differences. Through this agreement today we reaffirm ourselves again in demonstrations that we have already done in this Parliament, when we could not yet visualize, glimpse the emergence of the extreme right into the institutions. Today, too, this Parliament again expresses its concern about the course taken by European policies. Already in 2016, three years ago, since CEAR Euskadi it was claimed that more than 65 million people in the world have had to flee in search of refuge, because they were being persecuted for various reasons; more than 3,000 people had lost their lives in what was going on that year in the Mediterranean Sea, fleeing from war and other human rights violations. The relocation and resettlement process is slow and insufficient because, despite the increase in the number of places for refugees, these are not enough for the number of people who are coming when their lives are in danger, and it is being ineffective because refugees are immersed in taxed itineraries and in pre-established times that do not allow them to carry the reins of their new lives. Unfortunately, three years later this statement remains fully in force. But far from lowering our arms, we must continue to work from the role we have in institutions to curb the xenophobia, racism and aporophobia that support necropolitics, those that determine who is important and who is not, who lives and who dies and who is easily replaced by others. This Parliament once again calls on the institutions of the European Union to renew policies within the framework of human rights, and that request must be made whenever necessary until the international covenants are complied with, until there are safe and legal avenues for those fleeing violent conflicts and until the policy of visas, asylum and protection is extended with the ultimate aim of ensuring the lives and integrity of migrants and refugees in their migratory transit. From Elkarrekin We can point out the shortcomings of the European Union and we also work to find and find solutions and improvements here in Euskadi. In Euskadi, where we have competences that we can and must exploit to the fullest to improve the situation. That is why we have proposed and agreed to urge the Basque Government to continue to develop the services and benefits provided under the Basque system of social services and all protection systems, as well as to make appropriate adjustments, reinforcements and resource adjustments, in order to facilitate access to registration and the universality of education, health, socio-laboral integration for employment and access to housing in a framework of equal rights and duties. There is also a need for further progress in the development of measures under the V Action plan in the field of citizenship, interculturality and immigration - No, no, no, But also, in this agreement today, it seems to us particularly important, because it is an added value in relation to previous agreements, the setting up of a group of persons expert in the field of foreigners to advance in the reflection and analysis of the legal framework that allows us to reach the maximum of autonomous competences in the field of immigration, alienation and coexistence, in order to put into operation all possible measures and instruments to promote reception, care and integration. Ultimately, the protection of the human rights of migrants and refugees. Euskadi is a territory that knows what it means for its people to flee to save their lives, and it is of justice and solidarity to advance on a path that allows us to be a society that welcomes those who are now forced to leave their land in search of a better life. From Elkarrekin We can defend a more just and inclusive society that respects the defence of human rights in a reality and for this we continue to work with proposals for coexistence policies that focus on effective equality of rights, that fight against racism and discrimination and that value and care for the diversity and socio-cultural wealth we enjoy in Euskadi. For all this, today we really welcome this agreement and we welcome the fact that once again various political forces have been able to find themselves in the defence of human rights. Thank you. DEBAk Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Gold, your word is yours. gold to the right Thank you very much, Salvamento Marítimus Humantari, and welcome the Refuxians to join us and to do your wonderful work. All our admiration. Before I begin my speech, I would like to send a strong hug to the children of the centre of Hortaleza in Madrid, victims of intolerance and racism by fascists who are seen in this society as democrats. What is not democratic cannot be normalized. And these are the consequences, but they won't happen! At this day we have two equally just propositions on the table, which will deal with the political controversy about the watering of the human rights of the refugees. This year more than 1,000 people died in the Mediterranean waters. Thus this sea is the largest common pit in the world, which has accumulated more than 36,000 deaths for the past ten years. It is necessary to reveal the remarkable responsibility of the European Union for these deaths. For the necessity which these men feel for leaving their births has a direct relation to the economic, commercial, and military policy which the European Union has with Africa. These policies have led the people of Africa to an infinite humanitarian crisis. It cannot be forgotten that the inhabitants of Europe during the time of colonization with Africa had played, systematic prey to plunder, to break the traditional structure of the continent, which gave rise to an indefinable and arbitrary adaptation of subordic sub-dilections which they had previously sought. These men are potential asylums, and the States in the United States of the European Union ought to be under the protection of the internationally signed assets, but Europe closes the gates and sees no other way of banishing without much hope. The politics of the migration control of the European Union are mistaken; instead of based on the end of surmounting human rights and wrongs, they are led to prevent them from giving access to the principle of security. That's against international legislation and it's done for both the giant securitypress and the armor-presence benefit. But amongst the privileges of the European Union there is no investment either in the salvation of the sea, or in the humanitarian aid. Such enterprises, indeed, are less and less important, and are more and less pursued by them. Currently, there are about 70 million displaced persons in the world, 25 million of whom are refugees, one third of whom are women and girls. It must also be said that, despite populist speeches, 80% of this population is outside the European borders. The European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, proclaim universal indivisibility interdependence Migration is an existential and political act. The grandiose Jesus European Union policies on migration and asylum, starting with agreements adopted by European Union states and third countries, such as Turkey, imply the denial of fundamental rights of migrant people and peoples, which affect their dignity, by defining them as illegal illegal illegal illegals This week, in an open letter, the President of Médecins sans Frontières, Christos Christou, urges the European Union to stop punishing asylum-seekers in Greece, applicants who are in different refugee camps and refugees in deplorable conditions and, moreover, the result, precisely, of criminal agreements such as that of the European Union and Turkey. The absence of a predisposition of legal and safe channels to reach European territory leads migrants and refugees to Libyan mafias, which is causing deaths, deportations, disappearances, arbitrary imprisonment, torture, sexual violence and slavery in general, with systematic persecution of the migrant population. All a crime against humanity! In this way, the Mediterranean Sea has ceased to be a crossroads of civilizations, to become an immense cemetery in which tens of thousands of people who hoped to arrive at a place that they imagined safe and welcoming have died or disappeared. Among the conclusions of the Permanent Court of Peoples – an ethical court – in Brussels last April established that the practices of the European Union and its constituent states, in terms of asylum and immigration, together constitute a complete denial of the fundamental rights of migrants and refugees, thus implying genuine crimes against humanity. In addition, it demands a direct responsibility on the European Union and its member states, for denying rescue operations, for having been accomplices in murder, torture, ill-treatment... And, therefore, the European Union has, in this case, an obligation to adopt policies that will, in the first place, address the causes of such migrations, socio-economic causes, bellicose causes and causes which are precisely in the hands of the European Union itself and the Member States, and which also go from the local point of view. A moratorium is also essential on those agreements – such as those of the European Union and Turkey, which, at the request of this parliamentary group in the last parliamentary term, unanimously rejected this criminal agreement – and other agreements, such as those of Italy and Libya, which are committing genuine human rights violations. Similarly, positions such as those of the United Nations must put an end to every act of hostility and criminalization against the work of maritime and humanitarian rescue NGOs. At the same time, they must firmly counter practices that fuel xenophobia and hatred and lead to a hostile environment, starting from the local level. In this regard, the promoters of the initiative have signed a compromise amendment with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, to point out the responsibility of the European Union for everything mentioned above, also to demand the obligation of the Basque institutions in a comprehensive reception in terms of universality, highlighting the importance, in this case, of developing in its entirety a law of social services to guarantee all rights for all people without exclusion. This is very important to highlight, because, although we have agreed important pacts – such as The Pact for Immigration, to which we have acceded – in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, civil society continues to be the main provider of care and care for migrants and refugees. And this would have to be carried out by the Basque Government. That is why we are critical in some respects and we will be demanding in this regard. This same week, SOS Arrazakeria, or the Citizens' Network of Reception, has shown its rejection for the growing increase of migrants and refugees who have to spend the night on the street because they have no other choice. More important than staging a pact, which is very important, but more important than this, is fulfilling the duties of hosting in an integral way, facilitating registration and having a guaranteed social service system. In this regard, we once again call on the Government from this rostrum to withdraw the income-guarantee reform law and reverse the cuts that are being made in this area, because they affect tens of thousands of people and the most vulnerable groups, if they fail to do so. Or to defend, in this case, as we have done in this proposal, development cooperation, to claim and defend sustainable human development in the populations of origin. This also has to go to the Basque Government itself, and it is time to comply with the Basque Cooperation Act as well. Finally, we highlight, and we have expressed this in this proposal, the great work, the extraordinary work of civil society organizations in their defence of the human rights of migrants and refugees, both at the local level – in our cities, towns and neighbourhoods – and in the camps themselves or, in this case, in the humanitarian maritime rescue, such as the case of Aita Mari Welcome to the refugees.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Passing the teams that are running the corrections, represent the Basque Popular Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again, Lehendakari, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the truth is, it is true that we have spoken on many occasions... Mr Ruiz has recalled many initiatives and proposals for migration, and refugees and immigrants. And we do it once again in the week of the signing of the Basque Social Pact for Migration. Of course, the two initiatives have changed a lot from the first formulation to the signing of the compromise amendment. I do not know whether it will be a consequence of what has also been experienced this week in relation to the policies they have shared, but, in the first, in the Elkarrekin Podemos group, there was talk of a Basque reception system. The other initiative, that of Euskal Herria Bildu, was based on the attribution of serious responsibilities to the European Union – responsibility for the death of refugees, complaints of European Union policies... – in what was the text of that non-law proposal. There has also been a change within that initiative. Of course we could not share, nor do we share, that attribution of responsibilities and that denunciation which was made, in general terms, to the policies of the European Union, the consensus and the common ones. It is clear that everything will not work well, and that there are problems, and that there have been dysfunctions, in a phenomenon as massive and as brutal as have sometimes been certain movements of people, right? And, in that sense, it is clear that it will have to be improved, but we understand this policy within a framework of cooperation and institutional collaboration. And that must also be reflected in all the initiatives and proposals made by this House. And we certainly miss that approach here. We, in our two amendments as a whole, also wanted... issues that we have also called for in the inadequacy or shortcomings of the Basque Social Pact for Migration, we wanted to urge the Human Rights Directorate to produce a report on needs with a view to having stable instruments, but a report on needs. That report we were asking for, which would come to Parliament and the other institutions, would have timely measures, but how they should be done. Everything will be done, from our point of view, it should be done in coordination with the other competent administrations. In other words, I would like to say again and again to call for the joint action of the Basque Government, or of the Basque institutions, with the institutions of Spain, those of the Government of Spain, and with the institutions, therefore, of the European Union, on this issue. In the other amendment in its entirety in relation to the other initiative, we were also talking about the fact that we, contrary to mistrust, trust the European Union. We trust in this unanimous agreement of the States of the European Union. That is to say, we wanted to express and we wanted to emphasise that the Basque Parliament trusts the efforts of the various institutions of the European Union: Parliament, Council, Commission and dependent administrative bodies. There is no populism or those policies, in fact, xenophobic or racist that prevail in some political leaders, but there is another kind of criterion. Indeed, they are sometimes insufficient, sometimes they do not work as they have to, but we continue to rely on that unity of action in relation to what the European Union is. And we want to urge those institutions to continue to implement support measures – we also did so, didn't we? – for the integrity of migrants and refugees, supporting development cooperation plans..., in that framework of European, state action, don't we? That is to say, we consider it important, and that should also be an initiative like this, right?, to set that framework for action that we miss. And, of course, you also have to talk..., you have to neutralize, with international collaboration, the criminal activity of those mafias who trade with people. We have also missed an approach in that regard. That is, what is behind the suffering that, of course, these people have. In this respect, the two initiatives that had been put forward, we were collecting our amendments in their entirety. That is to say, we want, of course, public policies that consider several things in relation to the phenomenon of migration, that consider several things. Indeed, that they consider reception in the best conditions, respect for human rights, of course..., but we also want public policies – and we have to say so because we have to defend it this way, because it is a matter that society is also concerned about – that they consider several things, such as orderly and legal control and immigration. It's for us essential. In these texts there is no distinction between legally ordered immigration illegal immigration control legally ordered immigration struggle against the mafia And coordination, as a fundamental element in these variables, coordination with administrations – the Administration of Spain, the Administration of the European Union – in public immigration policies, not just a regional approach. That's essential to us. The initiative, in short, as I said before, does not distinguish between illegal legal immigration ordered immigration We must distinguish, and the initiative does not, as does the Basque Social Pact for Migration, where we established and saw a series of shortcomings in relation to what was needed and a series of shortcomings in the pact and a series of shortcomings in strategy, in some way, which we have missed. An in-depth analysis of the reality of migrants has not been addressed. There is no such analysis, that description that serves us all to continue to value in relation to origin, in relation to characteristics and circumstances, in relation to purposes of transit, or not, or stability, in relation to the normative framework... We need to talk about the regulatory framework. It is that we have to comply with laws and we have to comply with rules in Spain and in the European Union, laws that affect the management of the phenomenon of migration. Of course I do. Of course, it is also true that there is no form of xenophobia in our society, there is no form of racism or discourse that criminalizes migrants, refugees, or violent and hateful attitudes. That, of course, does not fit in our society. But what do we have to do? We are in the European Union and we are in Spain, and the Basques have to work with the Government of Spain and the Government of the European Union, comply with the law and make analyses and diagnoses, which have not been done either in this initiative or in the Basque Social Pact for Immigration. Thank you very much. LEHENDAKARIAK Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours. pritore san vicente Today we are dealing with two cumulative initiatives in relation to migrants and refugees. We have recently dealt with this matter, it was done about two months ago. At that time there was also quite a tune-up, quite a deal between the groups in this House. In that initiative we succeeded in having that comprehensive agreement signed between four groups, and that the Group of the European People's Party, while not signing it, ended with a stand of abstention. The transaction showed the "support for migration and asylum policies" that are respectful of human rights; shared the "engagement in public migration policies that are carried out from a holistic and cross-cutting perspective, considering reception policies as a country challenge"; urged the Basque Government to "continue working in a coordinated manner with third sector institutions and entities to ensure adequate care for the migrant and refugee population"; "the development of the 5th Action Plan in the field of Citizenship, Interculturality and Immigration 2018-2020, as well as the 2017-2020 Plan for Co-existence and Human Rights; "that, through Ikuspegi" – the Basque Immigration Observatory – a study on the needs of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees in Basque society is carried out", and that "progress is made in the identification and implementation of mechanisms for reform and improvement in the field of reception and integration, within the competence of the Basque institutions, through a participatory evaluation by migrants and refugees who are protagonists of the inclusion processes". Human history is a history of mobility and migration, of people moving around looking for horizons of prosperity and security for both themselves and their families. Our country has been, according to the conditions of the moment, also the origin and destination of migrants. Migration movements are an unspeakable reality in this globalized world, but they are also a challenge that in turn entails an opportunity that we must seize and consider. Today's Euskadi, and tomorrow's Euskadi, will be a diverse and plural society. Diversity is part of our history and our collective identity. At the same time, a stream of fear and rejection is spreading to the immigrant, which translates into xenophobic and defensive discourses and policies that we must vigorously reject. We need to address immigration from the point of view of equality and the principle of non-discrimination. We must be inspired by the Universal Declaration – always – of Human Rights. But this recognition of non-discrimination From the Socialist Group we have always advocated a social pact for migration, against racism and xenophobia, which stimulates measures aimed at facilitating the access of immigrants to public services on an equal footing, ensuring normal and equitable access to health, social, housing, employment and justice services, raising awareness of the positive values of cultural diversity and ultimately promoting the full social, labour and personal integration of the immigrant population. And, also, we are the society that we are because today's Euskadi is because it has lived and been built with the work and effort of thousands of people who came to Euskadi to seek, equally, a better future and who now also constitute the current Basque citizenship, a solidarity, committed, respectful, plural and diverse citizenship. We need to talk about duty rights. During this year work has been carried out on the elaboration of a Basque pact for migration, where the opportunity has been given to make contributions to all political groups in this House. All the groups know the beginning of the elaboration since April of this year, and last Saturday was raised, with the presence of the lehendakari, before the different institutions, diputations and municipalities, and we find during this week in the phase of accession of the different institutions to the principles and actions contained in it. It is an important step that will promote greater coordination between all public and private entities that adhere to it, and the strategy and plan to follow will emerge from it. So, for the Socialist Group, all the initiatives that are proposed to improve attention and response to this reality, to the reality of these people, are not only necessary, but are also an obligation to be assumed by democratic societies. A compromise has been reached, as has already been mentioned. In this transaction, the migrant is rejected as a threat; a complaint is raised about the xenophobic and hateful speeches and institutional acts that are taking place in Europe; a warning is given about the lack of a common migration policy in the European Union, not so much in theory as in fact; a call is made to strengthen the actions of the Basque Social Pact for Migration; progress is called for in measures that better respond to the humanitarian crisis faced by refugees at European borders; progress is called for in measures and instruments for the reception of migrants and refugees; the importance of international cooperation in economic and social development with other impoverished countries is stressed; the European Union is called for safe and legal means for those fleeing violent conflicts and harassment; and recognition is given to the work of those who engage in solidarity with migrants and refugees. I hope that this agreement, this intention, this approach, which always seeks to take a step further, gives it, serves to advance and deepen much more in solidarity with this situation, which I would say is probably the greatest shame of the Democrats at this stage, the greatest shame of our civilization, the most shame of our societies, and is that we have millions of migrants, millions of refugees, people fleeing from war and the violation of human rights, of impoverishment, and that we have them wandering around the world; making many resolutions, but making it very difficult and creating many difficulties for them to have the proper treatment that they deserve in democraticly advanced societies as we live in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u73	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all of you presidents, chiefs, and congressmen and guests who are here today. Migration is a reality that is happening all over the world. To give an adequate answer to this is indispensable in our inner rights and internationals, and in order to give a proper answer to this reality, we must all the institutions, and in general society, be ready. This challenge, besides the capacity which countries give to different changes or realities, reveals also the will and moral ethics of this country and that society. And we believe that's a very obvious Euskadin. Let us be especially here in Euskade, not only in solidarity, but as demographicly as it is an opportunity to answer this challenge of migration in the right way. Historically, since society emigrate, we have become a modern, rich, immigrant society. And, fortunately, as it seems, we shall continue to be so, at least in the short and middle term, and this must be explained to us that the immigration of foreigners has come to stop and will continue. Thus this more and more extensive system of culture is not at present a present phenomenon, but one of the fundamental commercial keys which characterizes the society of future euscals. It is necessary to arrange the management of society and of divergence. The laws and the measurements ought to be accompanied by this invitation as an exception by the immigrant. As Mr Ruiz has said, a suprecist ideology that lately are stronger and stronger. But we're going a step farther, and we're going to get paid for the job that's done by the Eusk0. The rest, in this plan mentioned, we have a very important and striking end in euphora society: The right and duty of all the people to help us to establish a cohesion of society around equality, by respecting the cultural variety rising up, and by encouraging them into the intercultured code of life. Based on this objective, as Mr Ruiz said, we urge in this transaction the Basque Government "to continue to develop the services and benefits provided in the social services system and all protection systems, as well as to make the adjustments, reinforcements and resource adjustments that are relevant for the purpose" – as he said – "(...) to promote the maximum possible extension of the ownership of fundamental rights, regardless of nationality, and to promote the universality of education, health or basic social benefits". At the same time, based on this plan, it would be inevitable that we all agreed that we should reach the autonomical capacity, as I have said, in the immigrations, foreignness, and co-existence in the fields of life. To satisfy these hands, a work-table between those who are experts may be asked to proceed, as has been said, to make an analysis of the legal frame, and to continue this reflection. We have another example of this strong and advanced step, which has never been mentioned till now, here. Through that project, M.M. It is set up as the purpose of the initiative to receive and integrate a key to different kinds of emigrations, and to agree in the transitional manner, a proposition which has been a newser. In this sense, too, there was a mention of the social compact of the migration that had been introduced in this Saturday, and that was also managed by the help of the various agents and institutions of the Eusko MUDM. The signature of this compact has been intended to sign a treaty for migration, for solidarity, and for democracy, as clearly as we have mentioned. I wish I could remember a few words from President Urkullu during this performance. "This patient," said he, "if we were migrating persons, arranges universal conditions for the dignity of which we would like to receive them, giving these conditions to those who really need them." Not at all, as we mention in the treaty, and in the use of our guests to-day, we praise the commitment and the desire to offer assistance to the civil agents of society, and to the emigrants, in the navigation of Father Mari. I only wish to thank Mr. Ruiz for his endeavour to arrive at this agreement, because in this agreement this legislature, the commitment which the Basque society and the Basque institutions are in general about migration, and as far as we talk about human rights, is a right to all persons. We think it's a huge deal, because it absorbs the development of all the plans and projects we're talking about, and our team thinks it's clearly a commitment to the Eucommy around migration. And finally, I'd like to remind you of the motto of the Socia Pactu for the migration that had been celebrated in the Saturday, and it was said: We want to offer what we'd like to get. Well, let's do it! That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Mr Ruiz mustn't speak. Mrs. Gold... ? Yeah. Then the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u76	Mahaiburu andrea, nire esterlekutik. A couple of thoughts, just. Firstly, Mr Barrio said he trusted this European Union. We do not trust this European Union as it is right now: a European Union that is letting 36,000 people die in Mediterranean waters; a European Union that is allowing women in detention camps and camps to be systematically raped; a European Union that is stabbing fences where it can or makes marketing pacts It's very important, in matters like these... And, in addition, situations that I live closely, first of all, because of a migrant status and for first-hand knowledge of, around me, what is the situation of people who already live here and the difficulties they face daily, but also because it has no comparison with refugees who, after suffering all kinds of human rights violations, try to reach our cities, our villages, our neighborhoods to try to have a better future. It is in our hands, it is in our hands to ensure, not only for the fulfilment of this, but for the full realization of human rights so that all people have the same rights without exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Mr. Barrio... ? Then the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u78	Yes, very briefly. With your permission from the seat, Madam President. Simply to say that one can be suspicious of one of the policies of the European Union, one can say that one has not been successful or effective, but one can trust that the European Union is a reference framework in relation to human rights, freedoms. We've got to make some progress there. We, from our group, understand that this is a fundamental element. That is to say, talking about the "criminalisation" of the European Union, talking about its responsibilities, talking... and not talking about the criminal attitude of those mafias who drag people to death, not even at one point, is not fair. I mean, you can't say that. We certainly rely on interinstitutional action, broad action and action frameworks in phenomena such as this. That is to say, phenomena which, in addition, we are concerned about –in one way or another, of course – as representatives, but society is concerned, because there are times when immigration, when it is illegal, when it is disorderly, causes problems in society. Then we have to analyse it, we have to analyse it, because it concerns citizens. And in that sense, we want to move in the frames. We want to move within the Spanish framework, we want to move the European framework and, above all, we want to move within the framework of legality. And we have missed that in the Social Pact for Migration and in this declaration that you have signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote together with Podemos, EH Collect, Eukal Socialists, and the Middle Amendors. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, the 70s, the 62; the contrary, 8; the abstainations 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-05.u80	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-one.
