ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. Before we begin, I will tell you that the fourth point will be discussed at the sixth point and the sixth at the fourth point. Preceding theme: "To judge for once the drawings of the whole meeting of June 6, following the 92.1 article of the ruler, as far as the other proposal made by the Parliamental organization, a plan for four years to determine the different policies of union and response." It was a draw in the US Abertist and the Basque Socialist in the full-page correction of the teams. So, following article 92.1, we're going to make the vote again. So we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 36; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u1	It's a draw, it's cancelled. First point in theme list: "The law-proposament made by Podemos parlamentary teams, the breach of laws against the common Eucharistic good, the violation of justice, and the indisputable practice of law. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You've been filed with your readings. We shall therefore, without reading, proceed to dispute. On the other hand, who wants to participate in the Podemos? Anyone else? Okay, EH Collect. So, together, Mrs. Macazaga, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. In January, this same year, we registered before this House the proposal for a law on the protection of persons alerting against legal violations, abuses of law and bad practices against the common good in Euskadi. Elkarrekin's firm commitment We can in the fight against clientelism and corruption by continuing to work on mechanisms that will tackle this scourge. Basque society has become aware in recent years of the serious problem of corruption and clientelism also in Euskadi, where its microclimate is not alien to this type of practice. As we have said before, we believe that citizen participation is one of the most effective means of exposing and combating political corruption and, as such, should be protected and encouraged by the public authorities. The potential benefit of increasing citizen complaints in areas where the silence law often operates makes it essential to establish protection mechanisms for persons making such complaints, which we have called "warning persons". According to the Eurobarometer on corruption, 81% of Europeans did not report cases of corruption, knowingly, for fear of reprisals. The European Commission envisages that the implementation of this rule protecting complainants would bring potential public procurement benefits of between €5.8 billion and €9.6 billion per year and between €50,000 and €70 billion in tax revenues. According to the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia – which we do not have here – half of the corruption cases are reported by citizens; only 19% by political groups. It therefore seemed to be an achievable goal to present law protection in this Parliament. However, we find that the government has manifested...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u3	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u4	... a criterion unfavourable to the consideration of the above-mentioned proposal for a law, quite surprising. He gave the following reasons – and I read –: "One. Although the Government is in favour of establishing secure channels to follow up on information relating to possible offences against the public administration or administrative offences, as well as ensuring the necessary protection for persons providing such information, it considers that the appropriate instrument to provide for the incorporation of these measures into our legal system – for reasons of clarity, systematic and legal certainty – is the proposed law on transparency and citizen participation...". However, the groups supporting the Government refused to accept our partial amendment to the Transparency Act and collect the box of anonymous complaints. A clear demonstration of intent. And he goes, "Two. For reasons similar to those mentioned above, in the comparative autonomic scenario, all the laws regulating the regime for the protection of persons providing information relating to facts relating to possible offences against the public administration or to alleged administrative offences, also do so within the framework of a general regulation on the transparency of the public sector, the institutional integrity or the measures or instruments to be implemented in the fight against corruption, with the exception of the rule in force in Castile-Leon...", which, he says, was approved significantly with the contrary vote of our formation. They like to mix barbecues with merinas, because today you are going to vote against a bill that starts with the same text as the European directive – but it is more ambitious. However, in this directive, which, as you will know, is binding, your PNV MEP, Mrs Bilbao, voted in favour – as you see in the Minutes –; Mr Jáuregui, from the PSE, voted in favour – as you see in the Minutes – and Mr Iturgaiz, from the Basque PP, also did, along with 588 MEPs. Only 29 MEPs voted against it, as you are going to do today with a text almost based on it. You and your consistency transposed. I follow the third point of the Government's approach: "In the favourable approach issued by the Government on 23 October 2018 in relation to the proposed Law on the establishment of the Office for Good Practice and Anti-Corruption, it has already warned about the risk of creating new public bodies, without prior evaluation of the functioning and performance of the dense constellation of bodies and institutions already existing in Euskadi (...) and to articulate the fight against corruption and to study, with due rigour, to what extent the entities they intend to create can be redundant with those already existing, generating duplication, overlapping regimes and juxtaposing disparate models of the fight against corruption, in clear prejudice to coherence and effectiveness. This warning must be reiterated at this time, since the initiative before us envisages the creation of a new public body – the Euskadi Office of Citizen Alerts – to which functions are assigned that would overlap openly with some of those entrusted to the Office of Good Practice and Anti-Corruption referred to in the above-mentioned Proposal". For it does not seem to us an excuse, when both laws can be processed together and adapt both bodies, as you want to do with the Data Protection Agency, and turn it into the law of Transparency into the law that bears its name. Our law is based on the basic text Xnet, a leading association of European legislation in this area, an anti-corruption association created more than a decade ago and which collects, from its website, a box of citizen complaints. His work allowed us to uncover cases such as Miguel Blesa's papers Black cards from Caja Madrid A similar initiative is also being carried out in the Parliament of Catalonia with the support of Junts Per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, En Comú Pomera, the CUP and also the Socialist Party of Catalonia. His parliamentarian, Mr Terrades, advocated in his speech the safeguarding of the confidentiality of whistleblowers and the effective protection of whistleblowers. And, by the way, processed together with another citizen, without fears or complex, and also with the existence of a Catalan transparency law and an anti-fraud office. They're not incompatible. Our law provides for the comprehensive protection of persons alerting against violations contrary to the common good by public administrations and the private sector and establishes secure alert channels, with the creation of a public alert office which, as I have already said, could perfectly be the observatory, which is now under arrest, and also introduces a sanctioning regime. It applies to the entire Basque public sector, including also to Parliament and universities, and to the private sector in a broad way, including political parties, professional colleges, including trade unions. Infringements are those established from Europe – not Castile-Leon – relating to political corruption, and we add issues of public procurement, environmental, security or health. The Act also contains a law on the rights of alerting persons, such as the right to security, economic and labour compensation, the right to anonymity, the right to be a party to the proceedings or the right to effective assistance and legal advice. A number of protection measures are also in place, which basically consist of not losing jobs or, where appropriate, contracts. Almost the entire public sector and much of the private sector have to provide channels for receiving alerts, and our future transparency law will not make this possible, as I have mentioned before. With this law, anyone can also alert the Office of Citizen Alerts and even make public complaints if the above has not worked. The bodies that regulate this are fine, but it is necessary that those who warn feel that they have their rights protected, because that is what we are talking about today, to protect rights. In conclusion, we present a law aimed primarily at protecting alerters, persons such as the Pinosolo complainants or those of the De Miguel case. As I said, we have worked with associations and people involved in the matter, such as Simona Levi and Xnet, who today present their proposal at the Congress of Deputies, where they registered it on 30 May. I imagine that we will have to wait for Madrid, in 2021, to transpose the directive which we all support here in the European Parliament, instead of using our own self-government, our powers and being able to create a more ambitious standard for Euskadi. You'll know what you have to hide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ugarte, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u6	Good morning, everyone. Well, first of all, I want you to thank the Podemos team together for bringing this initiative to Cristina Macazaga. For we believe it to be very important to examine the subjects of this kind; we think that Europe plainly tells us the way, but there is no interest here to give way to this law. I have an El Padrino edition Our vote will be favourable because we think it's necessary to end this discussion because it's supposed to end with abuse, because it's supposed to end with threats, because it's supposed to end with a kind of disaster, and that's the end of it. Children learn at school from childhood, abuson ambo, ométa. It is better to protect oneself, and to protect oneself, that it is better to keep silent before abuses, even in large cases, in such a manner as this, and so in most cases we do so, and so in most cases. And we become medical, and we realize that when we go to an OPE, to a study, that this study is mother-made, and that we know it's for who it will be, but that it's better to keep quiet if we want to wait for our shift and one day if we want to get our job. Or we'll become a corporation, and we know if we want to adopt public contracts, if we want to participate in public competition, we'll have to pay a part of it, and we'll have to admit that sometimes they'll pay for those pieces and other contracts, but that's what they'll do. "I think it's better to keep them all that way. Or maybe we're going to be some kind of technical secretaries in a council town and we'll have to make the ballotola. According to the Barometers of the Euse, 81 do not accuse the crimes of this kind, I speak of Exodus irregularity, but I ought to speak about crimes, and he does not accuse such a crime by 81%. I think the number is very expressive. And I'd say that there's more than 81 of them who don't suspect it, because now we don't even know how far it can go to the corruption of the system and the corruption of the system. We only see the tip of the izeberg and we don't know how far this rotten system is going with all its imperturbation. And I'm not saying that I'm surprised that people don't accuse me, because there's nothing to see about Marta Macho that we've seen this week. If the media weren't there, if the unions weren't there, and several political parties hadn't been charged, because this person would go out calmly and "Aquí no pass." I'm not at all surprised that Ainhoa Alberak Nikola de Miguel case I'm not even surprised that the Faraway Fernandos were in his time at the Eastative Pelotium of Galdaca. I'm not surprised that I and Martín Goritano Eideer Mendoza were threatened to receive him in 2015: "Sten donde esten, esto no se a quedar asi." I don't blame you. Courage is required, courage is needed when we see crimes, when we see irregularities, and when we are under powerful ones, we need great courage to accuse them, and to carry on with them. In the meantime, the politicians who are under investigation of corruption are in public business, and they do not throw them out of their own offices, although they have graphics of evidence, although there are many documentaries in the courts, although there are testifiable proofs. Even when everything is clear, these people still remain in their office with all the impunity, with all the impunity and the support of many media. And, of course, with a passive prosecution and a series of unprincipled judges. And so it's almost everything's mounted, everything's mounted, and it's very difficult to stand up to it. Yet transponse reality In Congress, as we hear, there seems to be a bill of law to protect the persons who accuse the crimes of this kind of country, a legal proposition which for two years was held up without being transmitted, and which seems to continue in its own way. But I mean reality. This enterprise in the European parliament, which, as Cristine has said, was favorable to 591 votes; 29 against it, and only to 33 abscesssion. It seems, then, that there are enough political consensus to protect those who enter charges into the territory of the European Union. What kind of measures are required? Well, it's the required sizes of secure channels, secure channels, means of making anonymous accusations. Who dares to give his face to his face, and as if he were injured, when no one allows him to resist such an enterprise? The justice is required by these people to have a right to a legal advice. It is required that organisms should be entirely independent, which will control all this, and give means, indeed, to be able to examine all the irregularities and crimes of the public institutions. The measures of all sorts of protection are demanded, for some have been exposed to physical impenetrability and their life to see the things of this kind; and there is nothing more to be seen in the number of the dead in so many judicial procedures in the last stages of the Spanish State; there is nothing more to see how many natural deaths occur in a very rare manner; What else do you need to do? For to declare the transgression of the Rule, to declare those transgressions of the Law, and to punish them. The penalties ought to be laid down, and the offenders were brought to the courts, and punished, and these punishments increased. Then we must see whether to make such accusations as is to be paid as in the US system, to those persons who are offering protection to the public property, and to those persons who are risking their lives and their futures, or whether they are to be paid or not, what kind of measures of protection should be reserved or not, what sort of penalties... All that is questionable. And today we had a chance to discuss all this. We need a great deal to conclude with the immunity, and Europe has promised us that we should end up with the immunity. And today we're losing an opportunity, and the loss of it is very ugly, because what we're doing is delay and give up the lives of individuals, workers, political parties, unions, or charges that put their lives in danger. We risk their stigmatizing, being insulted, being threatened, expelled from labour, never receiving any more public contracts. We're getting what's going on, we're making it possible for us to protect the immunity and the eternal. We're protecting the delinken if you don't give this up today. I would like to say that we must protect those persons who have accused us, who will protect the Basque People from collecting, and that they will have the credit of the Basque People as well as of political parties, and that every one of us, and every one of us who knows, will not allow the immunity to be maintained in front of such circumstances, that we will not allow the citizens to pass by, that they may not be protected at this moment, that they will not have an independent organism, that they will not receive a legal counsellor, they will be persecuted, but that every one of us deserves to be persecuted, or that you will not accept what you want to do earlier. Because it's obvious that sooner or later you've been in your own state of attitude. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Who wants to participate in the opposite round? On the other side? No. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether we consider the legal proposition or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 27; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u8	So it's not a question of legal proposal. Next, vote. Let's start with the Basque Popular. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u9	Thank you very much, President. We have abstained from this vote from the People's Parliamentary Group on the understanding that, indeed, the idea that has been attempted here with the creation or processing of this bill may be positive in order to give protection to certain persons who bring to the attention of the relevant authorities the commission of legal offences and any other crime. And we have nothing to hide. You have told us, Mrs Macazaga, "what do we have to hide so that this proposal does not come forward." Absolutely nothing. What we understand is that the text, the development they have made of it, is not correct, does not conform to the law, and it is practically impossible, if not completely impossible, in the course of the subsequent amendments, to give the necessary form for this figure to work. The first thing, and first of all – and that is the explanation of the abstention vote that we have shown this morning from my group – is because we have to define very well what are administrative issues of criminal matters. The behaviours you claim to report in this office are generally criminal offences. Criminal jurisdiction has an attractive view of the rest of the jurisdictions in the field of courts of justice, and of course in the field of administration. Behaviour that is or may constitute a criminal offence, an offence – whether a minor offence or a serious offence – cannot be seen neither investigated, persecuted nor instructed by bodies that are not jurisdictional. Simply for one point, because criminal procedure has a number of guarantees that it is absolutely necessary to be fulfilled in order to bring to a successful conclusion the investigation and the sanction if it is appropriate to place it. Therefore, the establishment of an administrative office to prosecute criminal offences makes no sense at all. That is, first of all, the reason why we abstained, because that is practically – if not completely impossible – to collect it in a number of amendments to the text that you have tabled. You want to extend this behaviour of an office which would depend on Parliament, and therefore would be within the scope of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community, to all the institutional areas of our Community, which has a number of peculiarities. And we have three, at least, fundamental, and very important administrative levels, which have to be completely independent: the municipal level, the foral level and the general administration level of the autonomous level, which we control. Each of these levels has control systems and have to be independent. I do not find any legal connection, either, in order to set up a processing office which depends on this Parliament which has to judge, prosecute or give protection to matters which do not concern at all who we must control, which is the General Administration of the Autonomous Community. And I don't understand why it doesn't have to be the general boards or the city halls themselves that control such behaviors within other institutional levels. These are the two fundamental reasons why we believe that, although the idea, which may or may have been – obviously you have given all the data – approved within the European Commission, will have to be moved within a proper legal framework here in our country, but, of course, it is not the immediate situation for the adoption of this bill because it does not, we understand, aim to prosper from any point of view, because of its relationship with criminal jurisdiction and, of course, because of its competitive trap when it seeks to control the behaviour of administrations that do not have to depend on this Basque Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u11	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group has refused to take this bill into consideration, not because it does not share the will to protect those who denounce bad practices, because, of course, we share it, not even because it is repetitive, which, of course, it is. We have rejected it because it does not seek what it says to pretend, but rather a headline. We reject it because it is opportunistic and because it represents a way of doing politics and parliamentaryism that we radically disagree with, because if everything were as it is presented and as we have been told, if real desire were to protect whistleblowers, the proposing group could have made a working effort in the processing of the transparency law through its amendments and seeking agreements for them to go forward, but it is not being done because it is an initiative that part of the groups that we support the Government, and there are those who for all have a headline prepared on legislative initiatives and there are those who understand the opposition as a blockade, without knowing that their votes can be very useful to give that legal certainty that they say they want for whistleblowers. If the desire were real, the proposing group would not have waited to bring it to debate, because that is its sole responsibility, that of the proposing party, and since February there have been sufficient plenary sessions to be able to do so. But it has been expected, it has been expected that certain information that was said would not be touched, which is what is behind to pretend to air here today. From the clarity and consistency with which the Socialist Group rejects any attempt to punish those who have the courage to denounce fraudulent practices and from the consistency that gives us that we have been the ones who, from a socialist government, placed in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office every question that raised doubts and that has ended up in the courts, we say that today we are not pushing an initiative, but a holder, because, in addition, we must remember that this proposal was registered three weeks after this House proceeded, with our support, to another analogous of the Euskal Herria Bildu group. Perhaps Elkarrekin We can expect something else and perhaps his usual jealousy entered him when others advance, but this is the reality: the socialists, together with the PNV, we advance with the proposal of the law of transparency, in which we are waiting, for three months now, for Elkarrekin We can clarify his position, and Euskal Herria Bildu advanced with a complementary proposal that already contemplates things like the one that is now before us and, as we said, we had to get married so that there were no duplicities. My group believes that it has spent too much time in this legislature so that we have all learned to sit in our seats, to know what we are for and what they have chosen us for, to know how we are useful and how we take things forward. Everyone has the right to present the initiatives they want and we all have the right to accept and reject them, and what is needed is to offer arguments. If Elkarrekin Podemos wants to be really useful in protecting those who report bad practices in the public administration, he can already decide whether he wants us to finish the law of transparency and citizen participation, which is much more demanding than the framework norm under which we operate, which was approved for the whole of Spain by the People's Party Government. What is needed is to see how we reconcile that transparency law with the Office of Good Practice that already brought Bildu at the time. So, contrary to what is apparent with initiatives like this, today Elkarrekin Podemos is being the group that is putting the most obstacles to strengthening policies of transparency and regeneration. Socialists have the work ahead of us. It remains to be seen whether, in what remains of the legislature, Elkarrekin We may want to close some to advance. Of course, we hide nothing, and lessons – neither in this nor in anything – nor half. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u12	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. Good morning to all of you. Finally, our team didn't vote for the consideration of this proposal, because together with the Podemos proposed that it's a lack of strong arguments. I mean, the arguments you've given were not very effective, at least not enough to appreciate the proposal, and then to describe and examine its partial corrections. We believe that what has been proposed cannot afterwards be determined by partial corrections, and that when a legal proposition is presented to us, the party who proposed it must make a strong attempt to convince the rest of the party. And obviously, together with the Podemos team didn't get it. We can agree together with the suspicions which the Podemos shows against the public administration about alleged violations or crimes, or with the reading of the state of the accused and the accused. But we have the legal proposals to deal with this house and put them on the table. I will not repeat the history of these projects, for it is very long, but equally clear and meaningful. The law of transparency which we are studying at this moment has been so high and so many degrees in the law which has passed, and which is now the case. At the same time, the proposal brought by EH Collect here, which basically refers to the same subject, was admitted to this Chamber on December the 20th of the year past. I do not want to miss the opportunity to say that I am grateful for Elkarrekin's will We can give us this proposal of law, but, frankly, from our group we do not understand very well what it comes to, because I understand that repeated and repetitive initiatives do little to help legal certainty in matters as sensitive as this. This is a poorly articulated text, too generic and, above all, Mrs Macazaga, that a proposal to transform the regulatory framework requires a solvency that shines out of its absence. But I thank you for your will, your effort and your interest, and I invite you to participate more enthusiastically in the initiatives already under consideration in this Parliament. I know that's how they're going to do it. It would be extremely positive if all parliamentary groups were to commit ourselves to carrying out legislation that, in the interests of renewing citizens' confidence in politics, would take steps to ensure a framework of institutional integrity as the central axis of good governance policy, so that, among other things, conduct that is hardly qualified as ethics would be banished from public life. I am also sure that we will all agree on the desirability of proper coordination of the provisions emanating from this Parliament, because we are not starting from scratch here. Some of the measures outlined in the text under consideration can be fully integrated into the existing legal and institutional arrangements in our autonomous community. We have a powerful mechanism to promote integrity, promote transparency and prevent and combat corruption in Basque public administrations. Moreover, some of the ideas and precepts of this proposal are being discussed and negotiated by the parliamentary groups in the presentation of the proposed law on transparency and citizen participation and will soon also be seen in the proposed law on the establishment of the Office of Good Practice and Anti-Corruption presented by EH Bildu. As a sample, a button: The Office of Good Practice and Anti-Corruption proposed by EH Bildu would swim in redundancy if his idea of creating the Euskadi Citizen Alert Office was accepted, wouldn't it? We would be faced with the ceremony of confusion and with a lack of legal certainty that requires every legal order. As has been shown in other latitudes, the proliferation of organisms and entities, in addition to duplicity and inefficiency, does not ensure greater utility in the battle against undesirable practices in public administrations. We do not want to go into the motivations of the proposing group to present the initiative. I suspect that this is not so much a legislative motivation as maintaining a media flame around a particular matter or fishing in certain electoral calendars. What we have to do is... the object of renewing the confidence of society in politics, and the good policy being the central axis of politics, it is to secure the sphere of justice for the institutions. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Second point on the subject list: "Modialus Barrius Barroja, a member of the Popula, presented to us by the talents of the public medical health in order to invest in the case of health. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u15	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselor, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Well, last Friday, May 31st, we asked the health advisor about the donations received by the Basque Country in the recent initiatives of the Amancio Ortega Foundation and, above all, we asked her and asked her about its scope and the department's assessment of this. I must say that I thank Mrs Murga for her information and her response to the inquiry. It is clear that it was satisfactory to check the figures, first of all, of the donated and more satisfactory even to know the benefit, in quality, of the care system and in technological renewal for the cancer treatment that this donation represents: care system, quality, technological renewal in relation to investment in appliances. 14,700,000 euros to Osakidetza for the purchase of high-tech equipment, for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer after the collaboration agreement signed between the Basque Government and the Amancio Ortega Foundation, here in Vitoria-Gasteiz in 2017. In the words of Mrs Murga, the renovation of five linear accelerators for radiation therapy and a mammograph – all of them of the latest generation – in a shorter time than budgeted – will improve the health outcomes of people suffering from cancer in the Basque Country. Well, the Basque public system, as was also recalled, has 10 linear accelerators for oncology care and, thanks to the agreement reached, they are being able to replace these accelerators and invest the funds earmarked for this purpose to other important health infrastructures, and that is very relevant, that is very important and that is also to move forward and continue to advance in health for all Basques. I mean, every day, I'm going to talk about hospitals across Spain, about 300 linear accelerators and mammographs donated by the foundation. Its price can reach 2 million euros per unit, but there are not enough zeros to measure the curative value or the care value of this technology, and this was recently assured by a specialized journalistic publication referring to the reception of these donations by the medical community, by the health professional community, in relation to these initiatives and these donations. We also spoke and we also have to say that donations have been traditional or customary, testamentary legacies to charitable institutions at another time, and also recently to care institutions, health care institutions, hospitals, maternity hospitals, universities. There have always been benefactors, as in art there were patrons, benefactors and people who have contributed their money to these social or health initiatives or of all kinds. –cultural, educational...–. In addition to what we are dealing with today, the Counsellor also reported, last Friday, that in recent years the Vizcay hospitals, as another example, have received nearly EUR 1 million, which has also been materialized by other initiatives and by other donors and by others in different investments and in different purchases. That, of course, must be acknowledged and thanked. We have no doubt. That is why there is recognition or gratitude; that is why we believe that some public statements in the full electoral campaign of some political leaders have been tremendously unfortunate and insulting by criticizing donations and unfairly accusing those who made them. These disqualifications have found a general rejection and have been perfectly answered by the vast majority of the professional community, but above all, all these disqualifications have been answered, with meaningful testimonies that we have all been able to hear, by persons benefiting from the processes, from the medical diagnoses that have been received through the new health infrastructures, or that have been able to receive them before, or that have been able to receive them in better conditions. And that's what really disqualified all those insults and answered all those disqualifications. As we recalled in the interpellation, there have been many examples of gratitude and appreciation of what has been donated. We can see, they are there, within everyone's reach, those samples of gratitude and professional, technical appreciation of what is donated by health professionals, scientific societies. – without going further, oncology or hematology – by professional colleges, by patient associations, by professional unions, by health authorities... We have seen statements by many health officials from autonomous communities, appreciating and giving a quality to what we had of course received in relation to what was to be progress and improvement in our health care. That is what we in Parliament have to value as responsible and as representatives of the citizenry and to show it to those who have had such good practices and generosity or altruism. Besides, another question, how has the donation been made? For in a collaborative, strictly collaborative, and transparent way, so that no one questions it. It has also depended on the needs of Osakidetza and the health services to which it has been offered. And he has offered to agree on the oncology technology that was most needed at every moment or that more needed to be renewed. In this technique, in this collaborative form, nothing has been imposed, no donation has been imposed: it has been agreed, it has been cooperated, it has cooperated with public health in relation to these issues – in this case, with Osakidetza. That is, we are faced with a magnificent news story for society, but for any counselor, health advisor or health advisor who wants to offer better health care. That is, we are in good news for everyone – it seems like less for anyone – for society as a whole in relation to levels, with improvements in health care. It is therefore normal for citizens, for citizens to want to thank those who benefit from their efforts and donations, and it is therefore good for the Basque Parliament to thank and recognize these very important gestures, because they are very important. And we have already talked about the quantities, we have already talked about what they represent in terms of quality and health care. Actions that, moreover, as we have already been told, can continue to hold on in time. In matters of health or oncology or other matters, such as since the Amancio Ortega Foundation, it has been announced that its policy of donations will be maintained. I mean, that's still good news today, too. Well, the groups have tabled amendments to the motion we were tabling. I have to say that I essentially share – which will form the basis of the compromise amendment – the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government. "I suppose it will be distributed, because we have signed this amendment at the last moment." And in that case the compromise amendment too, but the amendment that the groups support, in recognition and thanks to those who collaborate in this fight against cancer. It is quite clear that this is what I spoke about before, the essence, the characteristics of this donation, a collaborative donation and a transparent donation, in this case projected to oncological health care. That is, in that sense, it is logical that we certainly share that issue. However, we could not logically share the approach of the other groups, the amendments of Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, so it was not easy to agree or to have sex, to make an approach. That is, they raised another debate, another debate completely different from ours. What the two amendments put forward was a different debate from the one we asked for, which we wanted in our motion, and which we achieved through the compromise. We wanted to thank and we wanted to recognize essentially the donations. And what did the amending groups, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu want? They want to be suspicious, they want to be based on mistrust, and they want to divert attention to issues that at the moment have nothing to do with the debate being raised, don't they? Basically what they wanted was to base and argue about mistrust. Well, Elkarrekin's amendment We can want, on the one hand, to say the obvious, what we all talk about and what we all share. But what is the factor in Elkarrekin's amendment Podemos? His second point: talking about tax fraud, talking about tax evasion and tax evasion. But why, what is the reason for talking about that in an amendment of these characteristics? Why? Is there an accusation of something, is there an approach to be taken? It is a subject – tax fraud, tax evasion, tax evasion – that has nothing to do with this matter. He wants to accuse someone of something. I don't know. For, in that case, I believe that the approach, if anyone wants to talk about tax issues, if they bring it into one initiative, another will be the approach, others will surely be the interveners – Mr Damborenea will indeed supply me with much better than I will in that debate – and you will talk about tax fraud or fiscal policies, but on this subject, on this subject we were talking about, to thank those who make us progress in care quality, because I do not think it has anything to do with it. But well, I already know that one of the driving threads in the campaign was that, mixing certain issues in that debate that they unfairly opened up. Well, the pretension was to discredit, and with the strategy of verbal prestige, simplistic, turning good into bad. And that's impossible, but above all it's unfair. And EH Bildu was also doing a tax policy approach, I don't know, difficult, incomprehensible with what we're talking about. We were talking about donations; we're not talking about taxes. We were talking about something else, we were talking about donations to Basque public health in relation to progress, with the improvement, with the best attention, with more attention, with the renovation of technological equipment, with investments in health infrastructure, with the possibility of investing thanks to these donations in other investments and in other health infrastructures and with thanks and recognition. We weren't talking about taxes, we weren't talking about taxes, it wasn't a tax debate. You can ask, and plant it whenever you want, because of course we will have an opinion on that matter. And on the other hand, EH Bildu claims a donation protocol. There it is, mistrust is again involved in this issue, when it is something that is perfectly regulated in the regulations of all kinds, contemplated in our Heritage Law and in many other regulations that we all know. In addition, the initiative for this protocol was also – before I mentioned it – because how it is set, what objectives it has... He talks about the objective of transparency and, well, indeed, with the donation of the Amancio Ortega Foundation, some of the objectives – apart from the effectiveness and the possibility of improving health care – of transparency are met to the maximum. We have been fully and permanently informed of everything: money, agreements, signatories, infrastructure, the fate of the funds. For what? For five linear radiotherapy accelerators, for a state-of-the-art mammograph, plus that can be sustained over time... We've been perfectly informed. More transparency than that, in relation to a protocol of action, in relation to donations which, moreover, in the reception by the Basque Government, are perfectly regulated in our legislation, because I do not think that is necessary. I mean, it's not necessary and it's also diverting attention and saying, "Let's do protocols because there are donations that can be irregular." No, ma'am. They are donations that are perfectly legalized, which meet the criteria and regulations of the Euskadi Heritage Act, of which I was rapporteur at the time. In that sense, I believe that all these premises are fulfilled and there is no need to be suspicious. Madam President, we believe that the donations of the Amancio Ortega Foundation, like so many others that Mrs Murga spoke to us the other day, have been very beneficial for the health of the Basques and for the improvement of our health system. And we reject, as the vast majority of the health community has done, the disqualifications and insults cast by politicians in campaign towards those who, in addition to creating thousands of jobs, dedicate their money to education, to health, to oncology, to public social services... That attitude, we said the other day, deserves thanks, deserves recognition, deserves even tribute; not insults. Indeed, we have signed a compromise amendment and we will vote with the groups that support the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u17	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, lehendakari, councillor, parliamentary colleagues and compañeras. Comrade Barrio has applied the "gifted horse, don't look at his tooth" policy. And you have used too paternalistic an attitude in this Parliament. It is true that this is not an electoral campaign issue, this is a sensitive issue to talk quietly in Parliament and in the committees, in professional groups, because there are affected groups, indeed. There are cancer patients, there are professional groups, who live the problems of technology in the public health system. But let's not talk about horses, I'm going to try to explain, in ten very synthetic points, why Elkarrekin We may be against the motion that has been negotiated. First, public health must have sufficient funding. This means sufficient taxes and a progressive collection, a situation that is not happening in our country. The differential is known seven or eight points below the fiscal pressure of the European Union average, the subject has been discussed at length. More than ten points below the average fiscal pressure of the Nordic countries, which we want to look like. Basically, this differential is produced, at the cost of a tax reduction of the great fortunes of the country. It does not seem advisable that large companies are taxing around 8-9 % of profits and pensioners, some pensioners, can exceed 20 % of their RPPI. Secondly, donations in the Spanish state, which is where Mr.Amancio Ortega breaks down, enjoy fiscal advantages that come around a deduction of around 30% of what is donated – do not affect us Basques, which we have another tax model, and, according to different autonomous communities, this percentage may vary. So a third of those donations, roughly, are actually being paid by all people. Of the EUR 309 million donated, we are talking about between EUR 108 million and EUR 123 million of tax relief. The tax benefit, after all, is a public expenditure. Thirdly, what happens to this issue at the international level? Private donations are very common in countries with moderate or low fiscal pressure, with insufficient public services in coverage and means. The paradigm is the situation in the United States, where Trump's tax cuts have been followed by an exponential increase in private donations. In those others where there is a powerful welfare state with powerful public services of universal coverage and sufficient means, as well as an important progressive fiscal pressure – such as the Nordic countries – private donations are barely directed to international aid programmes. The question is what model of society we want. Support for donations comes from neo-liberal parties, business groups and media groups across Europe. Fourthly, donations have been conditioned. It is not true that they have been collaborative, conditioned and finalists in cancer treatment technology. Therefore, the donor's interests have predominated in the conventions signed in the fifteen autonomous communities. The general interests of the health system and the most pressing health needs of the population have not been considered. That's not true. It is dangerous for individuals to be able to interfere in the policies of organization, planning and management of public health resources. Strategic interests of the health system are conditioned or can be conditioned. Fifthly, it does not seem that the needs of the technological equipment of our public health are so evident. According to the OECD Health Data 2018, in the Spanish state there are 17 nuclear magnetic resonance equipment per million inhabitants and 18 TAC equipment per million inhabitants; in the United Kingdom, 7.2 resonance equipment, 9.5 TAC equipment; in Canada, 9.5 resonance equipment, 15 TAC equipment; in Sweden, 11.1 resonance equipment, 14 TAC equipment. Generally speaking, we find that technology and investment in technology are very important in the most deeply neoliberal models. For example, in the United States there are 36.7 magnetic resonance equipment per million inhabitants, 41.8 TAC equipment per million inhabitants. These data on the existence of technology in different countries of the world have nothing to do with the incidence of cancer in the population, have nothing to do with cancer mortality, have nothing to do with overall mortality, have nothing to do with life expectancy. It is not true that investment in technology has a direct relationship with health indicators. Sixthly, there is a problem of low use of technology in the public sector, which contrasts greatly with the use of available technology in the private sector. It's not a matter of apparatus, it's a matter of personnel. To put a linear accelerator in our hospitals, we need to build a bunker, we need permission from the Nuclear Security Council and, above all, we need sufficient qualified personnel. How many times have we found hospitals and outpatient clinics in which technology equipment operates in the morning and in the afternoon are closed? We do not call that an intensive use of the available equipment, we do not call that optimization of technological resources. In our case, in our hospitals, we know that linear accelerator teams work from eight to nine at night – it's no problem – but not other teams – echocardiograms, mammographs, ecographs...–, not other teams –TAC – that close in the afternoon. On the other hand, and although it seems contradictory, there is over-use of health technology. The culture of health technology has to do with the market, not with health needs. It's a lie. Not with health needs; it has to do with the interests of the market and with the interests of sale, mainly, of products. The periods of amortization of health technology are increasingly shorter to renew faster and faster. However, I say in paragraph 7 that there is over-use of health technology. There is a culture and clinical practice that has to do with the use of technology, diagnosis and treatment as a central element. People say, "The doctor doesn't look at me." According to several studies, in Europe it is estimated that approximately 30% of the use of health technology is not justified. I mean, more technology is no longer health. Moreover, more technology in some countries has been shown to be more dangerous to health, more iatrogenic. Point eight, in short: donations from the health system must be guaranteed by taxes, which requires a change in the tax system to ensure the progressive continuation of all people. Once this fiscal equity is guaranteed to ensure the contribution, nothing happens if someone wants to contribute with a donation to public health, provided that it is unconditional and can be used by public administrations according to the identified needs and health plans that our teams of health system leaders have, in equipment, in personnel, in infrastructure, etc., etc. It makes no sense to encourage existing technological over-use. Yeah, the logic of the market. We need to use the existing technological resources in public health in an intensive way, for what is needed more qualified personnel – which decreased radically in 2008, at the time of the cuts, in all the hospitals of the Spanish state – and not necessarily more devices, and, moreover, we should make progress in preventive measures and health promotion strategies that favor the demedicalization of society. Dear Health Advisor, just a point to finish. In 1978 – same as he had not yet been born – he broke down the hospital in Basurto. I was at a demonstration – the police stopped me – there were about 5,000 of us. All the doctors in Basurto, all of them, were left without charge because the hospital in Basurto was of charity and the Basque Government decided to make it public. He broke, I mean nobody charged his salary. We were in round tables, we were in discussions, at the time I was on the health plan team hired by the Medical College of Bizkaia. Broken. Donations, as you said, are the beginning of health systems in the world, the nineteenth century, the beginning of the twentieth century, where there was no culture of rights, where there were no social security systems, or few. Then, the donations, the private charity, the Lezama-Leguizamon, the Gandarias..., the whole Basque oligarchy turned – not only in Basurto; the hospitals of Triano, in Maternity, the Milkdrop, etc., etc. – because all health systems worked like this. There were no rights, but now there are rights. And until the hospital of Basurto and the General of Asturias, and the Saint Paul and Santa Cruz, who were of charity, broke and entered the public system, could not lift their heads. And that has to be said too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u19	Good morning, everyone. This is the discussion that we have here about the benefit of public health introduced by the popular team. I'm supposed to say that even the interrogation surprised me, it surprised me a lot. I thought it curious to see a polemic created around the elections of Madrid through an interpelation of the chief physician in the Basque Country or the parliamentary part of this part. In this excitement the chief physician said a great deal about the historical gift of public health, and once and again he laid the benefits of the new machines for the cancer on the table. We all agree that the best professionals and most advanced technology to face the cancer is one of the most important priority of public health, I dare say. At the same time, we are quite satisfied with all the contributes that may be made for the health system, but that's not the discussion today, at least for us. The discussion of this day is, for us, that of the finances of public politics, and that of the establishments of the public administration of the present day. For us, the several groups which we have here are the dispute of how we understand public services; We find in the Basque People that it is essential to maintain the public services which society requires to support, that it is a proper policy of taxing, so that the just system of taxing, progressive, redistributor, and sufficient strength, because our social model is founded on social justice, because it is established in equality by the community of rights. In Euskal Herria Bildu we are clear that investments in public services as fundamental as health or education, for example, cannot and should not be at the mercy of the will of private donors. Anyone who wants to contribute to the distribution of wealth is entitled to do so, but that does not mean that the public administration can leave a fundamental right to the opinion of the whims of a few. We defend a redistributive model, a model that works based on solidarity, justice and the sharing of wealth and, in this, the Administration must decide what the money uses, without any interference. Of course we want to have the best technology in our hospitals, but this should already be a fact per se.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. When in this country we are working hard to defend public health for all and for all, the first thing that we all have to do is to put sufficient resources from our areas of responsibility. And that is the government's obligation, to ensure that we have sufficient financial means to have the best public services, to have the best health we all want. And that's what taxes are for. It would be much more interesting to convince Inditex to move his tax office here than to expect his annual charity. Look, preparing this intervention, among so many papers, I ran into a March headline this year: "This is how health in Madrid ages: 40% of high-tech machines are over 10 years old." I know, I know what they're going to tell me, that this isn't Madrid, I know, I know I don't live in Madrid, because I wouldn't want to. But it is a clear example of a governance model of a community governed for many years by the proponent's party of this motion, a clear example of leaving a government that, without a doubt, said it had nothing more to do with it, only if the crisis, only if the priorities of government, that if there was no money for much more. Does that ring a bell? I do, it sounds to me, it sounds to me a lot, unfortunately. And, ultimately, it is the direct impact on the quality of public health of a government with a specific model of public management, reflecting an economic model and a social model. A model in which the rich pay few or no taxes, where the rich finance their own private health and where the rich, if they see fit, give money for public health, for others, yes, with juicy tax breaks that we pay among all the citizens of the country. A model of fiscal paradise, in short, a fiscal black hole, as I read once they called the Madrid Community economists, a model that is not what we want for our country, in short. And to show some data. Look, Mr. Amancio Ortega, who later turns out that in his transactional birlibirloque art has disappeared, however much the proponent had a special interest, but the express mention has disappeared. Look, Mr Ortega won only dividends last year, only dividends from Inditex, and we'll talk about the rest, 1.4 billion euros. I don't know where Mr Ortega pays – I don't usually drink coffee with him – I don't know whether he pays in Madrid or Galicia, but I don't care, on one or another zero income tax, zero. Look, in Nafarroa I would have paid €46.8 million, and the investment you want to put in loas, in bodocas and so on, doesn't even reach 20. And here, in the case of Gipuzkoa, for example, if the tax of great fortunes that so many headbrokers supposed to you had remained alive because it seemed to be very bad, but it only affected the rich and the rich, it would have paid almost 94 million euros. For comparison. 94 million euros that would have entered the public coffers and that would have been distributed as representatives and representatives of the citizenry would have decided. And that is what we are dealing with here today, whether we are looking for a balance in the model based on social justice or whether we want to continue to depend on Sunday alms. Do we want a universal quality and guaranteed health? Our bet, at Euskal Herria Bildu, is clear: let us have an appropriate tax system for this, a fair and progressive tax system, a redistributive system. Because the rich have to pay the taxes they have to pay, without any subterfuge of elusion, and without having to applaud them for bringing to society what they owe, as we do for the rest of the citizenry. While being grateful to those who do so, indeed, but also maintaining an objective, the fundamental objective of any public administration, which is quality public services for all and for all. And this is not a slogan, this is a statement of principles. Roosevelt said that when you get to the end of your rope, you make a knot and hold on. Well, that's what it's about. That's what it is about in the tax system, to make a collaborative chain where each and every citizen we bring according to our possibilities, without applause and without loas that lead nowhere. And from that point on, someone wants to make a donation? Well, let him do it, there's no problem. And we'll give this gift of treatment to be given, but it's customary and not a saviour or a hero in the face of society. Hence we mention in our proposition also the need of a protocol to obtain gifts, because it is necessary to explain certain parts of the world, and to explain the end and propriety of the other parts. Is it really necessary that the President should do so? The Chinese tax is not available. Isn't it just now about making a public photo of the President of the Revolution who's made a donation and a donation? Is that necessary? Who pays for that picture? Who? Why did you do that publicity? In our present case, it's obvious for the mark behind the foundation for photos that have come from the donation campaign with this. They've done a lot of publicity campaigns in huddle. In many cases, with these photographs that managed to connect a commercial brand with social property, it has a large incest in the publicity world, a larger campaign than any other commercial campaign, made a commercial campaign with several photos worth a fortune for a particular commercial brand. Who pushed those pictures with the president? Why? Why was the president of all of us involved in a public campaign like this? It's clear to us that that's not the way. In point of fact, the different administrations of public administration have a number of donations and legies, and these are not made of medianical campaigns. Beraz, guretzat argi dago gogoeta egiteko beharra dagoela dohaintzen inguruan, zintzotasunez. And don't come to me with the tradition of our country's donations and legacies, because we are in the 21st century. We are talking about rights, we are talking about social justice and equality, not charity. We have already left behind those 19-year-old societies where the wealthy families of the country financed hospitals or asylums as charitable works, with little participation, it is true, of the public administrations of the time, but the workers at that time lacked social and labour rights, and to that we are not willing to return. As I said, I'm going to finish the program, President. we are in control. Our social model is different. It's not the time for self-inflict, it's not the time for people's mines and people's hopes to be used against each other. We have a chance to make a serious discussion, to discuss patterns, to get agreed on the financial sources of public services, about the activity of government, and, after all, to answer the euscal society properly. And our wager is clear: Let's confirm the public service directly, progressive and redistribution system that guarantees enough revenue entries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u23	Thank you, President. To begin with, I am responding a little bit to both Mr Uria and Mrs Pinedo's speeches, starting with the latter. He was talking about EH Bildu that we can't do politics depending on alms. A budget of the Basque Government that exceeds EUR 11 billion, Mrs Murga's department exceeds EUR 3.8 billion and Mr Amancio Ortega's donation is 17. And you're saying that the Basque government's health policy depends on Mr. Amancio Ortega's donation? Man, Mrs. Pinedo, I will tell you, as Mr. Ximo Puig said in Valencia, where, by the way, Mr. Amancio Ortega's donation was accepted and, in addition, it was discussed – and with this I am replying to Mr. Uria – about what it meant for Valencian patients, "it is not incompatible to pay taxes with social responsibility", because it is not incompatible. Here, those who are supporting the initiative put forward by Mr Carmelo Barrio are not saying that Mr Amancio Ortega or anyone who wants to make donations, in this case technology linked to oncology, stop paying taxes for what. We're not saying that. We are saying that the payment of taxes is compatible with social responsibility. Because companies pay their taxes at the same time that they have a commitment to society, and we understand that this cannot be denied. Because we'll say, there are 2,500 Basque patients who will benefit from the new technology through Mr. Amancio Ortega's donation. Are you able to tell those patients not to use it, not to benefit? No, Mrs Pinedo, because that's what you've come to say, trying to make it look like some of us are defending fraudsters, we don't know who, and we prefer to accept donations without doing the tax policy we have to do. The Socialist Party defends, as it seems to you, the shielding of the public health system, which guarantees the right to universal health of all people. And that shielding requires a budgetary sufficiency that must be guaranteed by a progressive and equitable tax system. By the way, when the budget debate comes, let's see if you are doing well to negotiate it and sometimes to support it, so that oncology patients can also benefit from their bets. This is the basis, no other, on which to talk after other issues, such as donations – which, go ahead, my group thanks. That basis for us is fundamental, on which the rest is based: the shielding of the public and the need for a just and progressive taxation that guarantees it. Sometimes this is forgotten. Mr Barrio has already announced, in his interpellation in that full of control, that he was bringing this motion also so that we could portray ourselves before a fact, which, by the way, was used during the election campaign, from our point of view, in a totally wrong and unfortunate way. Care must be taken to put at risk the axes that constitute the determinants of the public system. At some point, a plan to dismantle the fundamental pillars of this public health system, which has been one of the major pillars – together with public education and the public pension system – that have allowed for the greatest social transformation, was launched in Euskadi at the end of 2011. They are all pilars, by the way, in which the Socialists have had much to say. I think this has not been forgotten, although we sometimes seem to like to use certain debates to appear as the great advocates of progressiveness, of taxation, while others seem to want to support some rich people to stop paying taxes. And nothing further from reality. And it is true, as the adviser also recalled at the two-week inquiry, that in Euskadi there has been a long tradition of donations that have made it possible to have a health care network. He set the example of the hospital in Basurto – of which Mr Uria has also told us – which, in fact, was rising from what was being given to him. And what happened when we had a statute was to start working so that health would stop being charitable and become a right. So once, in 1987 – by the way, with a socialist adviser – we assumed the health transfer, what we did was to build a public system that would guarantee everyone the right to be cared for. But it is clear that the budgetary difficulties of the past have severely constrained the capacity for technological investment, although after listening to Mr Uria, I would like to ask him a question. Don't you have to intervene in technology, don't you have to intervene? You say that technological development cannot be combined with health outcomes. I don't know if you can join or not, you probably know more about this than I do, but I ask you the question: don't you have to invest in technology?, do we stay as we are and dedicate those investments to what? I certainly disagree with you at this point. I wish it had also been possible to undertake tax reform as insisted by the Socialist Government, but it was not then. However, we have designed a strategic plan with a long look at the time that the next government assumed and that this House unanimously ratified in 2013, and here we contemplate the need for technological renewal in which we are somewhat delayed by those budgetary constraints that coincided with an exponential increase in the population that requires extraordinarily accurate material. That the Amancio Ortega Foundation has been involved in this effort, for the socialists, is great news. It is for those who have already been able to accelerate their treatments, who have been able to heal, and for those who will use it in the future. So, to Mr Barrio we say yes, that we certainly thank this foundation that in the free use that it can make of all the benefits it has, after fulfilling its fiscal obligations, because we do not want to exempt it from doing so, it devotes part of them to public health. Because it is true that he could also have made such an investment in private centres, but he has done so, in all cases, in public systems and throughout all the autonomous communities. Also in autonomous communities where the Basque Nationalist Party does not govern with the Socialist Party, but, Mrs Pinedo, where they govern some who are much closer to you on ideological issues and who, of course, signed the agreement, thanked it and accepted it, although then they go to live elsewhere to avoid other kinds of problems. So let's do everything together. I believe that we should be prestigious in our public health system, which is the result of a political vocation to prevent this right from being restricted to those who can afford it, to make possible a just and progressive taxation, and, in addition, it is to be thanked for any private collaboration that, without seeking any kind of compensation, contributes to the public. Be it the Amancio Ortega Foundation, which is what we are talking about today, probably because the budget amount is very important, be it Greenpeace, which has done it on other occasions, be it Caritas, the Food Bank, Amnesty International, because donations not only come from the hands of Amancio Ortega, by quoting some of the organizations that develop a public function that in no case can replace the responsibility of the administrations to guarantee the rights, in this case to health, and in others to education, social services, or the environment. What they all do is get to where some kind of deficiency is occurring, and, together with the appreciation for their work, must always go the political bet decided for these gaps to cease to exist. For all this, we believe it is important to accept such donations, taking into account the responsibility and commitment a government acquires. Taking into account also the clear budgetary data, and as I say to you, a budget that exceeds EUR 11 billion. When the Department of Health has 33% of the budget of the Autonomous Community, talk about whether we are doing politics or trying to do it through a lack of knowledge of what you have told us, Mrs Pinedo, because I think it is a bit of a misconception of the debate. One thing is to be able to accept donations from private entities, of course, by forcing compliance with the law, and another thing is to talk about saying no by the no. Because you have not supported the no vote on this initiative. Well, Mr. Uria I think he did. It is true that he has made an easy intervention in order to be able to say so. And then, the conclusion I come to is that Podemos is going to say "no" because it's a conditioned donation, because it comes from Spain, because taxation in this case, on the issue of donations has talked about Spain, because it seems to him a intrusion that comes this donation to Basque public health and because it considers that investing in technology, well, because we are investing too much and that, well, cause-effect seems that there is no. Well, look, I want to tell you that of course I believe that responsibility lies in politics and in the public administration, I think we have a public health system in which other autonomous communities look at each other, others who, by the way, also accept Mr Amancio Ortega's donations, but whatever it is to contribute to improving treatment and speeding up time, I think it would be everyone's responsibility to accept it. And let us focus on the debate and talk about what to talk about. And now we start the work to prepare the next budget project, to see if you take it so seriously and don't come six months later to give us lessons from what the budget has to say. If you know what the budget has to say, sit down, negotiate and don't wave to end up voting no. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u24	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u25	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, and good morning to all. Well, we're clear about the discussion. There have been a number of accounts here today, but we clearly see that in this case there must be discussions, or at least that we should confine ourselves to the subject which was received in the original initiative. We want to express a complete gratitude to cancer with all the agencies that work to prevent cancer or to help it. We're not gonna make any difference. We thank Amancio Ortega Foundation in the same way, but we also thank many other associations, the small ungoverncies, the great societies, the great foundations, and the little foundations. We appreciate them just the same. And in this sense, we have no objection to the Amancio Ortega Foundation, especially to express gratitude. And in this sense, and as it was here before, we are grateful to the President, and also to the health chief physician for this arrangement. We have no objection to accept it. So, what's the most important thing for us? Well, it's a vital match to face cancer. The work of association is indispensable, as well as from the direction of public administration, but also from many other causes. So, to say that, we want to stress what we received in the text of our middle course. I believe that the text is as significant as the simple, and I should like to limit it to what is received at this first point. What's really important? Well, to give the people as much of the best of the best educology as possible. What do you need for that? On the one hand, resources are needed, economics. You're right in what you're doing. but it is also necessary that human resources and professionals should be adequate in order to face these wants, and that the technology also is indispensable. We don't share certain statements here that have been made, saying, "Hay un sobreuso de la tecnología" and so on. At least we don't see it that way. What we think is the most necessary is that the means should be adequate to the necessities of need, and among them the technology is of great importance, and even in use of that technology there is need for professional qualified professionals, but there is also need of a planning. And we think that what we have to remark here is that when we use this technology, and take the measures to prevent cancer, there is a planning. There is a function of health, which receives certain definite ends, and contains certain definite works of industry; there is also a "Esucaology Plan," which is still more determined by the project of health, in order to give to them the best of the best of the best and best of the best of the Phecology. So we want to focus on the discussion today, because we think that's the most important thing, at least today. So what do we ask from the Medical Department and the GM? Well, compromise, which he has hitherto shown, and may continue. Let him continue to work in order that he may continue to improve every day; let him continue to work, with other workmen, in order to take advantage of all the possibilities that are produced; let him continue to work, and be able to promote new plans to the future. So we think that with what we get in the middle we get, we get that subject of discussion the best way we can get. Guk ez dugu partekatzen hemen egin den adierazpen hori, as this government has applied the saying "on gifted horse don't look at your tooth". I am not clear that if you had been in a position of responsibility at the time when this donation was offered by the Amancio Ortega Foundation, you would have rejected it. I don't have anything clear, I don't have anything clear. Nor do I like to mix the debate on taxation at state level with the situation here in Euskadi, etc., is that I see it as going a long way from what is the main topic of this debate. Mr Uria has made an analysis based on unknown sources, on data obtained from unknown sources, which, without being impertinent, I would be grateful if you could quote us in order to be able to contrast them and in a future debate, which perhaps at that time we will be able to debate on the subject of taxation, public policies, etc., and so on, we can contrast and draw conclusions on this. He has made the statement that "in countries with low fiscal pressure is where more donations are made." I don't know, I don't know. What we do know is that in countries you have cited, such as the Scandinavian countries, in Sweden, for example, the Karolinska Institute the main donations are received from a multinational such as Ikea, which will also have to be analysed, it will have to be contrasted. So, those statements you've made we don't share. In any case, they are subject to political, ideological, etc. assessments that should be contrasted. Nor is it true that the needs of the health system have not been taken into account, at least not in Euskadi – I don't know whether it was referring to Euskadi or he was also speaking at state level. The agreement signed with the Amancio Ortega Foundation was an agreement in which the two parties participated, made contributions and agreed on a number of investments in technological infrastructure according to the needs that existed. By the way, that donation has already followed a protocol. Dohaintzek disarraitzen dute protokolo bat. Carmelo Barrio jaunak aipatu du: law bat existitzen da. Nahi baduzu, heifer, jo dezakezu oinarrizko legedira statu malan edo, huta ére, Euskadiko Ondarean Legera. Hor argi jasotzen da nola egiten diren, ez dohaintzak Bakarrik, any kind of acquisition by the public administration, both on a onerous and free basis. Hor dago jasota no la egin behar diren, zer vadintza bete behar diren, zer expedient bete behar den. In this case, it is plain that this file has been completed, after a negotiation between the parties, the choice was discussed, and the agreement was obtained. Therefore we do not agree in this assertion either. "A fiscal equity must be guaranteed, and then donations would be fine, but they should be unconditional." Well, that's another assessment. We understand that we are already doing that, we are already doing that, we understand that it is. As soon as they prove otherwise, we can change our minds, but, at least so far, we understand that this is being done. And even in the case of the EH Collectors, I don't know whether you have any responsibilities in this situation, if you'd have a chief physician, Mrs. We are not clear, we are not clear; I do not know whether you have mentioned it or not. You've made an interesting analysis, too, when you said, "Amancio Ortega lives here, if he lives in Gipulia, would apply to the rule of the forum that was adopted in the law of the previous Garitanus, the formula of wealth, and so on," but he doesn't live here, he doesn't live here. What are you going to do, then? Will you refuse this chance? What would happen, like the tax on the lottery? "As a Spanish lottery, why should we do this transfer, why should we accept it? "I don't know. Just until it's time to start, right? In the end, they are so often conditioned to have a responsibility or not to have it, what's the matter with you? Then the credibility is lost. And in the end, you end up trying to divert the discussion, to divert the discussion, and the discussion today wasn't about it. So I'd like to say that, as Mrs. Rojo said, we don't believe in incompatible beliefs that the "con buscar y promover un fiscal" system is justo, progressivo, equitativo, etc. We don't think they're incompatible, but we can do one and the other. And once I say that, I'll finish the first round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u26	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u27	Yes, thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Orbegozo and Mrs Red for the agreement we have reached, and for the speech, which has also supported important things about what the initial intervention was. Look, Mr. Uria, it seems that donations, as you have made the speech, are a setback to health. That is, donations, in the way you have explained what has happened in the past two years and what technology means, represent a setback for society. Let's see, the speech you've made, of course, I think you'll be convinced he, I don't know, but that one does impoverish public health, that one does impoverish, because you said some things "Now I'm going to remind you," they're curious. But look, it wasn't a tax debate. You wanted to take the issue to the prosecutor – you and Mrs Pinedo – to the tax issue and to see the verdicts, to see. Let's see, Mr. Ortega is complying with the law, and that's very clear, and that's complying with the tax. But, in any case, it is a profit of millions of euros for thousands of people. That's what this really is about. I haven't heard anyone in charge of public finances anywhere reject those donations, anywhere. "Some fiscal black hole," you said, you spoke of "a fiscal black hole." It's been apocalyptic, of course, in your intervention on that matter, isn't it? And, of course, I do have to tell you that they have been collaborative. In Euskadi it has been perfectly collaborative and transparent, and we have seen it and that is the good thing. I believe that this is one of the criteria that the Amancio Ortega Foundation has wanted to put forward in relation to this matter, and I believe that there it is and has been demonstrated. And then, as always, hostility, that permanent hostility to public-private collaboration, that permanent hostility. Let's see, but if public-private collaboration, and here in Euskadi, and attitudes like this and other examples of public-private collaboration, if what they do is support public health and public services, enrich them, guarantee them, extend them, promote them. This is what public-private collaboration does in relation to health care. And the example we have in this country, the example we have in this country. And then, the other word. Of course, the word "neoliberal" had to come. It's the word that's always used in relation to things "that I don't like that I'm left-handed," isn't it? For the rest is neoliberal neoliberal strategy neoliberal strategy And what he has already said, that is, "more technology is not health, more health technology is not health." But let's see, how is it not health more technology, more science, more research? It's healthier, no doubt. Let's talk about the microscope or the X-rays, see if they weren't healthier when they were invented, discovered and promoted, and when they started spreading. Isn't that more health? It's just that every speech isn't worth anything, Mr. Uria, is it? I mean, to disqualify an issue that has been good news for the Basques, you can't make such a catastrophic speech. Moreover, as someone has told you, I do not see you as a health advisor and saying that no, not to donations, to health technology that affects the health of more people, that guarantees better and more treatments. I don't see him saying no. I mean, I think he's made a speech that certainly disappointed me a little because I think it's impoverishing public health and its ways. And of your opportunities, Mrs Pinedo, because yes, because it's an opportunity that you have, it's an opportunity. And here you cannot support speeches like yours in the mistrust, in the constant mistrust, of those who want to collaborate, of those who have their business, of those who have their business successes and those who then want to collaborate with society. And that's the mistrust of the left. I mean, and everything else is clear that it's neoliberal usurper of public spaces. Moreover, if Mr Uria said that "more technology is no longer health", Mrs Pinedo said, "those machines", "those machines", to the accelerators for cancer treatments. He said, "machines." Check it out. "Machines," "machines," he said. Check it, check it, check it. He said "those machines." No, ma'am, they're not machines. I mean, they're worth the disqualification speech here at any time. And it's not at the dawn of private donors, it's taking advantage of opportunities, and that's what we do. And what are we doing here? For I also remind you in that speech that you make on tax matters, that you want to mix it with all this, talking about the Heritage Law, to see what happened when Bildu imposed the property tax on Gipuzkoa, because they left 600 Gipuzkoa tax collectors and will be paying their taxes elsewhere. Those were Bildu's successes in fiscal management...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u28	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u29	I mean, let's focus, let's thank the donors, the Amancio Ortega Foundation, let's thank and recognize their efforts, and let's congratulate ourselves, as beneficiaries of public health, on that step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u30	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u31	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, counselors, counselors, colleagues and companions. I have tried to make a simple speech because the subject is complex. Not only is it complex, but, in addition to being complex, the role of technology in a health system, the interests of patients, the interests of professional groups, the interests of multinationals... Make sure a lot of interests are mixed up. Therefore, it is easy to make an opportunistic speech, paternalistic, poor cancer patients It is logical, of course, that social policies have to do with taxes. I believe that there is no one in this Parliament, not even the Danish parliamentarian, who is against this. Social policies have to do with fiscal policies. And they say, "Uria, don't mix things up!". But what do you mean, "don't mix things up"? But is there someone who's against this? There is no culture of social rights, there is no extension of social rights coverage – the right to health, among them – if there are no adequate and sufficient taxes, if there are no progressive policies! This is the first reflection. Therefore, we had to make an effort to understand how tax pressures behave in different countries of the world, and with different models of society, in relation to health systems, and how those who are more fragile, weaker, poorly covered, as in the United States, have low tax pressure, and have high donations. At first we thought it was Protestant ethics, that this philanthropy had more to do with ethics. Protestant culture. It is not true: Protestant ethics is given in Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark, and there is no philanthropy. Or there is philanthropy, as Mr Orbegozo said very well, linked to social aid programmes – he did not say so, but I say it. So, Red Companion, don't make that nahaste-borraste powerful I know that Comrade Barrio has a good intention when he talks about these things and he doesn't understand what it's like to be neoliberal. Social rights are of broad coverage and quality in their benefits or are not valid, because they create important inequalities, and health inequalities are a health problem! It is a health problem!, inequalities in health. This is the second reflection. The third reflection is that Kerman – a companion and friend – asks me for sources and data. Well, nothing, let's give them. We're all going to give sources and data. I have only given one source: OECD Health Data 2018 – it is on the computer – which talks about the ratio of equipment per million inhabitants of several countries that have seemed significant to me. I can give you all the sources I want. There is a critical current in the professional world, without any doubt in the intellectual world, and in the political world that raises care with the irresponsible use of technology in health systems And no doubt, I just read it right now in the Medical Writing magazine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u32	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u33	Good morning again. Thank you, ma'am. I understand that you wanted a debate. "Well, I don't know how to say it without wanting to offend," he said, "vacuum, about fences, photos, and so on, but if you're talking about donations to the public administration, and so we're talking about public funding, we're talking about taxes. Another thing is that you don't want to talk about it because you don't care or for a thousand reasons, but we're talking about it. And Mr. Barrio, "machines." It's just machines machines plants machines machines And I said it in my initial intervention, "Don't use the pain of people, don't use the hopes of families." And that's what you've done, Mr. Barrio. And that is very ugly, especially because I have said absolutely nothing of what you and Mrs Red – even Mr Orbegozo – have used as an argument. I have not said that donations are not received; at any time. I said, "If anyone wants to make a donation to the public administration, let them make it, there's no problem." I didn't say don't do it, but does Mr. Lehendakari have to take a picture? Is it necessary for Mr. Lehendakari to take a photo with a donor who has a trademark behind him and to sponsor a free commercial campaign of Mr. Lehendakari? Really? Do we have to have a picture? Yeah? Do you think it's normal? Will the lehendakari take a photo with each and every citizen of the Basque Autonomous Community who makes donations, with each and every citizen of the Basque Community? Because in this clear community we are generous, but one thing is to be generous and another is to seek commercial interests with it. And I insist, you've used families and I'm not going to do that, because I said it in my first intervention, but one thing is very simple, if you say, "What do you say to those people?", I will tell you, what do you tell those people that they have no treatment because public health has no budget to buy machines because it has been decided that there was no money for more or that the priorities were others? Talk to those people and stop using the pain of families, which each and every one of us can be in the same situation, and I don't want to customize here. Look, you're talking about mistrust. I have not said the word fraud each pay what should pay what should pay what should And, Mrs. Red, "that it's compatible to pay tax and make donations." Did I say otherwise? No, Mrs. Red, I didn't say otherwise. I said you have to pay taxes and whoever wants to make donations to make them. What happens is that you guys don't want to hear what some of us say because it's much easier to go to the "these are the bad guys in the movie" speech. And I didn't say that, I didn't even tell you to be mean. "That they meet their tax obligations." Of course I have, but I have told Mr Barrio, and I am also telling Mr Orbegozo, everyone defines what those tax obligations are, and you once defined some tax obligations and then joined to the right to do them a favor to those who had more assets. Mr Orbegozo, "Let us divert the debate." If we are talking about financing public services, we are talking about taxes, or is it that public services are financed by birlibirloque? No, gentlemen, they're financed by taxes. We're going to be serious, and don't "unit," "working against cancer," and so on. If that's not the case, no one has doubted it! I haven't doubted it at any time. In my first sentence, I said, "We are all, of course, convinced that we want the best professionals and the best technology to care for our patients in the Basque Autonomous Community." That's the first thing I said. But you don't want to hear that, you want to hear what you're interested in, which this spokesman hasn't said. I did not say at any time that we did not receive a donation, nor did I say that we did not receive Mr Ortega's donation, but what I said was, was it really necessary a photo with the lehendakari? Was that media campaign really necessary for a concrete donation? Is that kind of campaign going to be done with all the donations that the public administration receives from every citizen of this country? Well, I hope not, because that's not serious. And when I said – this bukatzera noa – about the protocol, knowing that there is the Heritage Law, of course I know, but it's about putting order, it's about things like the lehendakari coming out in a photo like this, they don't have to happen because yes, but because they are stipulated in a document, because you have to know what kind of donations we receive, why we receive them, and for that there are also a lot of people who are dedicated to business ethics, a lot of people who are studying about social responsibility...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u34	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u35	I'm going to finish. But don't put things in my mouth that I've never said and I'll never say, because I said that you have to pay taxes and that whoever wants to donate you donate, but from there to put someone on an altar for the simple fact of donating there is a stretch.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u37	Mrs. Pinedo, if we haven't put anyone on an altar, if whoever put Mr. Amancio Ortega in the focus of the photo was you. Because the problem where he is, in Mr. Amancio Ortega's photo? In the donation? What do we use the donation for? In what? Because then they say that I was the one who mixed the debate here. Look, I think that here, of course, we have to pay taxes; I agree that the public administration, the Basque, and everything, has to cover the needs of all citizens in Euskadi, Madrid, Catalonia and wherever; but you, Mrs Pinedo, are talking about a "financial sufficiency" so that everything the public assumes is covered by the taxes of the citizens, in this case, the Basques. All right, how much is that financial sufficiency and for what? For what? Because you know perfectly well that 100% of taxes, in this case of Basques, cannot cover 100% of Basques' needs. So, do not tell the citizens what you are not able to support if one day you come to rule in the Basque Country, Mrs Pinedo. Because you know it just like I do. And that's manipulating. I don't think you're bad, either. "I am grateful that you believe that I am neither," and I know that you do not question the public health system – I would miss more – just as I do not, but you are mixing things up here. And then, in the end, they mean a yes but not a yes but no And then on the basis of repeating things in the rostrum, a lie does not become truth, Mrs Pinedo, and you have in this matters of budgets and certain things, you repeat mantras, believing that repeating and repeating things are true. Corporate tax collection has risen; companies with higher profits pay more now than they paid before the change, and you know it just as much as I do. So don't come here and tell us a movie that's a lie, especially, to end up justifying what. Because, look, Mr. Uria, for me, when we talked about these health issues, it was like the referent because you were the health professional. You are a doctor who has worked in the public health system and, in addition, tells us, whenever you can – and I think so – everything you have worked for the public health system. You cannot say that the technology, research and development of the machinery – in this case linked to the oncology – are not closely related to the results of improvement. You just can't say that! And it is not to use diseases, nor families, nor pain, nor anything to see, but it will have to be acknowledged that if a donation of 17 million euros arrives and thanks to this specific budget item you can acquire – in this case, Osakidetza – a type of machinery linked to the oncological issue, you will have to tell the citizens that thanks – not to the donation of Amancio Ortega – to the acceptance and the good application, because the machines do not cure, heal professionals, research, support and contributions. But you want to say that it's okay with you, but that when you vote it's wrong with you, and, to justify the "no", you're talking here about "taxability, taxes", as if others wanted to pay – in this case, public health – so I don't know how. Truly, it seems unfair to me. Then, to conclude, in this case, that is what Mr Barrio has brought us, because we came to talk about Mr Amancio Ortega's donation, I think, there is no tax evasion. What law has failed? Has there been a violation of any law that we can denounce or that you can denounce? Because, if it's failed, they're slow, they're slow to go where they have to go. That one. Two, you know as well as I do, as I told you, that there is no coverage at 100% of the public. There isn't. You're talking about sufficiency. Tell me how much, how and for what, but how much. Because it's very good to talk here, but then, at the time of truth, you have to square the budgets (expenditure and income), and you know that that's not true and that can't be done, and, if not, we see them in many budgets saying yes, but ending up voting no. And then, where is that tax proposal from EH Bildu to get all this that you propose to us? Because you seem to have the answer to everything, but the vote is always the same. We are talking here about a concrete donation, which ends up improving the quality of life of citizens, and that is a political obligation and responsibility. And I think, I'd say, even obscene. Above all, of course, I do not sum up EUR 17 million in a photo of Mr Urkullu with Mr Amancio Ortega because that would be doing politics with newspaper headlines, and that is not what we are talking about. We are talking about 2,500 affected patients, a machine, the best in technology, and 17 million euros. Not to mention that the 33% approved, which we have managed to extend, is part of the health budget, of a budget of EUR 11 billion. Therefore, let us be serious and try to accept what comes from outside, bearing in mind, Mrs Pinedo, that we are waiting for your proposal to be able to pay 100% with the public. Because you and I both know that's not possible, and they're selling to the citizens what they're not able to hold with the budget in hand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u38	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u39	Thank you. And again, good morning to all. Egia esan, kostatu zait, Azkenean kostatu zait, unseen ningoen. It was difficult for me to know what the subject of the debate was. It seems, in the end, that the object was the photo of the lehendakari, the famous photo of the lehendakari, which is summed up to that the object of the debate. What is the problem if you take a photo with Amancio Ortega, as if you take a photo with any of the associations? Which, in fact, it does, without any kind of problem. Ez dago flood arazorik horrekin. But it is true, and I am glad to hear it from your mouth, that EH Collect would have no difficulty in accepting it. And this is also a starting-point. And we're really glad to say it to you, we're glad. We can't reproach ourselves with that one time. It's what I've got, and using the Spanish expression, that's where they both are "necadio es agradide." And if the problem is to take a picture, then that's the least of it. You mention, again, that "fis quality, equity, redistribution," and so on." Well, that's the way it is. one has its ideological attitudes, and one develops its politics. But, well, that's one thing, and it's another to accuse somebody that he commits criminal crimes, he cheats, the prosecutor, the prosecutor, the prosecutor, I don't know what, I know what, and that he's based on it for refusing to accept a donation. We do not share that art, at least, which is shown to have been so. You mentioned that "es vergonzos que se cure con es máquinas a sous personas." I'd rather not go deeper about it. But, you see, it was possible that Osapartics or the Medical Department should be able to go through these numbers to other investments, instead of going to buy that technology, to meet several other investments, which has helped to be a better display of pharmaceuticals. Mr. Uria spoke of "a simple speech for a complex subject. How easy it would be to go out with a paternalistic speech!". Well, listen to yourself, Mr. Uria, you're giving lessons in paternalism. You can't pretend to talk in everyone's mouth, talking about patients' interests, technology, pharmaceuticals. No, no, focus, focus on the debate. He said that "the countries with the lowest fiscal pressure are the countries in which the most donations are made". I don't know. I've already asked you where that source comes from. He said to me, "from the OECD." Well, we'll check it out. In any case, according to the OECD, do you know which country the largest is health spending, which does not mean that it is the country that has the best coverage? United States. United States. Do you see the inconsistency that exists in the debate in the argument you have used before? The biggest spending on health is in the United States and, instead, the health outcomes? Why do we always forget about health outcomes? Why have we missed the opportunity today to talk about health outcomes? Take as an example another OECD study, which has been published in the OECD, which takes into account the health systems of the 27 OECD member states, and what it says about the health system, in this case, the public service in Euskadi. Put that on the table. We discussed that, based on objective data, contrasted data. That is the debate that would really interest us today. Apart from thanking, recognizing the work of others, recognizing that there is planning, planning to obtain the best health results also in oncology. That is what we wanted to acknowledge in our compromise amendment, which is finally going to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u40	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the Basque Popular Groups, the Basque Socialists and the Middle Amendors who have signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 45; counters, 28; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u41	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "To collect the proposition as a parlamentary band, concerning setting up a new plan of impact against the youth-prefect. Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, Mr. Estarrona, representative of the EH Collect team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Legs, and good morning to all of you. Thanks to the young men who have arrived at the legislature to-day, because we understand that the institutions are often strangers to you, but we also think that it is important to know and know what is often spoken here, and what is decided here, because, after all, even those who are here determined in our everyday life and everyday life have an influence on us. So thank you for coming, you're welcome whenever you like. To-day, once again, we have brought the initiative of the young to a discussion about the new impact on the young man's body. Someone may think we're getting pretty heavy lately, because we haven't had a lot of trouble keeping going because we're going to have some of the most important problems in our country that we're going to have to do with any of our most important commercial problems, because time is going on and we don't see any remarkable changes from the young people. The level is off disking, and only the level is being changed when it's discursive. At first he spoke of the trouble he had about young people's unemployment and the trouble he had to get a house, and he started to answer these conclusions with patches of parcheno plans. Now the Government speaks of the challenge of the people, and of the strategic matter, but the measures which it employs are still the same as those of the parchase. Year 2012, in the words of Lehendakari himself: "Our commitment is to implement a youth employment plan". "We're going to put all the means in employment training, activate internships and training contracts, promote self-employment, offer internationalization scholarships and boost Lanbide." "...commit initiatives to reach 20,000 young people, to offer them an answer, that first opportunity to gain access to a job." Year 2019, however, before yesterday, this government presented the budget guidelines. Among the six guidelines he presented, we can see how one of them is focused on youth, employment, emancipation and the generational gap. The Government therefore places it as a priority issue; it says it is "a country challenge", youth; it says it is "a strategic issue", but it does the same as it has done so far. There's nothing more to read than IV. Gazte Plana and its operational plan, or the evaluation of the results of 2018 of the Employment Framework Programme, whose conclusions have no reflection or adaptation in the operational plan of action for this year 2019. We are talking about the need to create quality jobs, but we are still not collecting a single qualitative indicator and we are still not setting minimum objective criteria for assessing the quality of jobs generated, by the way, once again ignoring what has been adopted in this Parliament. From 2012, then, the discourses and words of Urkullu and Government have changed in the present 2019, but these words have no reflection on actions, neither on plans, nor on programmes, nor on help lines. In that case, it's still working in 2012. And this is very troubling. No one ceases to deny that we are in the presence of a change of paradise, and we see no measure or politics in the government's employment plan or in the gardens to answer this new paradigma. He receives the usual measures, the usual trades of business, and the duties which he had directed to his traditional professions. And meanwhile we continue to live in the time of the youth's preparation. This generation grows, grows, grows, and lives in the presidency of the presidency of the young, and is one of the most serious circumstances in this people. There is no data or inquiry that does not warn us of the gravity of the situation. The profession here warned us of the danger of losing a whole generation in this ghostly report, which we have already mentioned. "Fanttasma," we said, "when you published it, and then you thought it was the opposite of the interests of this Expedition, that is to say, it's because it's impossible for you to upset the situation, the Urkullu government. But this, as I said, and as I was saying to the chief physician of the Artola generouss, is not the greatest of all for us. It's very disturbing for us to sit in front of the recently publicized data, as a positive tendency, in a way that self-conscious attitude increases the state of anxiety. Because we are very concerned that the youth unemployment rate remains twice as high as the European average; we are concerned that the average wage of young people aged between 16 and 29 is set at EUR 1,000; we are concerned that with the Basque Government's Youth Return Programme in 2017 a single contract will be formalised, in 2018 six contracts and 2019 seems to be going the same way; we are very concerned that the average rental in Basque is set at an average of EUR 944, according to data from the Youth Observatory, and that, however, the government's star housing programme – the Gaztelagun programme – sets the limit for receiving such aid at EUR 750; we are also very concerned that in the last decade the housing budget in Basque has decreased by 34%, while we are witnessing scandalous records in rental prices; we are concerned that our young people are behind the age of emancipation in Europe. We are concerned, but the most worrying of all is, as I said, the self-complacent attitude of the Government, the null reaction to the results and data, and the unwillingness – or perhaps inability – to make courageous decisions that will solve the structural problems facing young people in this country. And this is again evident today with the compromise amendment tabled by the groups supporting this government. It's no longer valid, or it's not just a plan like the First choice, or the House of Castile, or the planet for the return of the Youngs, because such preparations lead to the legislative form, and they go to conclusions, and not to the ground of the problem, and moreover because it somehow dehys the trouble. Arazo horien oinarrira jotzea behar-beharrezkoa yes. Jauzi beat eman beharra dago, politica esanguratsuen bidez gasteen emanzipazioe and zoriontas unhelburu. Happiness as an objective, because just as the Tremendous Jauria sings on a powerful theme that begins with the heartbeat, "in a system against life, we defend joy". And we have clearly been able to design, develop, and realize, as we have often heard from a mere economist and producist point of view. And in that sense, as EH Collect here represents, the other proposal is to put himself in the center of life and raise some of the most dignified projects of life. Like I said, happiness is the end. So we ask him to design and force him in three months to get a new plan of employment of quality through his profession. I shall only quote, on the basis of this plan, the half-way because you have there, the specification of the conditions of the agreement of the agreement is DEABIZA, endless contracts, commitment to stay at least three years in labour, under its agreement, and, in any case, with the minimum salary of 1,200, secure during the 14 payments. On the other hand, the plan was to create a high-quality employment among young women, and to work against the wages of young men and women. That's not today. And this plan is to have 20 million budgets that will be exploding according to the application, and the length of the plan being one year, exploding according to the application, after the evaluation has been made. These are the most significant measures, as I have already observed, which this impact of the scene which we present to-day should receive. Only in this way, by giving real quantum fall, we'll upset the situation. With a firm wager, we shall begin to answer this challenge of the people before us with bold commitments, and we believe, moreover, that when the rules of the budget have been introduced, it is perfectly consistent and acceptable to the government groups to-day. We need political will to accept and develop the measures that this plan takes. And to-day, and to-day ye have a chance to make the first move, by protecting this as well as this other proposition. The time has come to put precise measures beyond words and intention or intentions on the table, to settle and carry them forward. Eta amaitzen joateko, to go and finish, and taking advantage of the presence of representatives of the youth, I am not very in favour of giving advice to the same, of, as is usually said, speaking from the voice of experience, which also usually starts from the experiences of oneself, since as Che himself said, "Youth must create. A youth that does not believe is an anomaly really." So I'm not going to do it, I don't dare, but I do think it's important to listen and learn above all from people who have dedicated their whole lives to creating a world with a better humanity. That is why I want to bring here an extract, a fragment of the historic speech of the former President of Uruguay, Pepe Mujica, in his address to a crowd of young people in his decoration and tribute at the Unasur Summit on 8 December 2014 in Guayaquil. And Pepe Mujica said to the crowd of young men who stood before him: "If you're young, you have to know this: life escapes you and you go minute by minute, and you can't go to the supermarket and buy more life. So, he struggles to live it, to give content to life. The difference from human life to other life forms is that you can give, to some extent, an orientation to your life, you can give it content or not. Or you can alienate your life and buy it from the market. "But if you had a dream, and fought for hope, and tried to transmit to those left, perhaps there is a small breath rolling, in the hills, in the seas. A pale memory is worth more than a monument, than a book, than a hymn, than a poetry. The human hope that is being realized in the new generations. "Compañeros, nothing is worth more than life. Fight for happiness! And happiness is giving content to life and direction to life. And don't let them steal it from you." Therefore, do not let him steal his life; Be a young rebellious man in this system that increases wrong. He encouraged the proclamations with your work and struggle. Do not doubt that he will give and bear fruit. You're doing a great job. And we shall stand beside you, as today, for your proclamation, the proclamation of the young men, bringing and defending us, because we have a clear view that the young without future will lead us to a future without youth. And the future must now be decided.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Artola generous, good morning. Josu, I've seen you with enough optimism about what the government will do, but, well, we'll see. Well, it's true that it can't be followed by things that haven't been given results and hope results will improve. We must therefore come to this legislature, and talk of the young. For, after all, we see that time progresses, and that the state of young men is not acquired by violence. And so, at least, we see that the state of young men is not, in years, much better than the state of the community of economic society. After all, the economic cooperation is improving across the world, so the situation of the young has improved a little, but not for the position of the government, but for the state outside. We have remarked more than once here, and I shall do so today, that to us the plan of collision is not an instrument, but we believe that today, considering the situation, it may be necessary to establish a plan of impact. Why? Well, clearly that things weren't right before. But this does not solve the matter in the same manner; for the question is, that young men are condemning those who are in authority, and you are condemning the young to the charge of a firm and firm answer, which, using the system of which you are not going to give us a promise of a worthy future. Why? Because you don't want competition, lack will, you don't want to... You'll know. The only answer that's been given by Red MU was by young people, and young plans are already boring young people, because this isn't an answer to improve the situation of young people. Parches don't improve our situation, they don't improve it, and they won't improve it in the future. Young plans have had very bad results. In the government too, Mrs. Artola generous, you know it was so, and Mr. Muro, not I, the vice-president, said this two months ago at the committee. So, what do we really need for young people to be the centre of all politics? Well, what we're talking about around the world is all we have to do, we don't have to figure out anything, all we have to do is consider young people. It's not that difficult, but this government hasn't done it until now. We believe, on the same hand, that we had advanced a step on May 2nd, when the Mox which Podemos had brought with him was tried by this parliament, and in which we all understood what was required, or what was tried, but what was demanded, I shall literally read: "Evaluate the impact of all public policies carried out by the institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community on young people...". We therefore hope that in the future no plan will enter this Parliament, not between any law or anything like it, without an assessment of its impact on young people because that is what Parliament itself approved on 2 May. I was reading – Mr Estarrona has also made reference – during this week the economic guidelines of the budget that the Basque Government presented on Tuesday and saw, too, how one of the axes for you was that of youth, divided into four sections: employment, emancipation, generational gap and child poverty, which, in truth, Mrs Artolazabal, just like you, or Mr Azpiazu can explain to me. Mrs. Artolazabal? How can you explain to me what child poverty has to do with youth, because, really, I don't have it very clear. But to the mess: employment, emancipation and generational gap. Or what is the same thing: Lehen Aukera, the precarious practices subsidized with public money; Gaztelagun, an interesting program for demagogy and the great headlines but with terrible results – young people would be much more useful less titular and, for example, to expand the housing park for affordable rent – and third, relief contract, which was clearly said by the vice-counsel Muro who had failed, as only 30 of the 100 people expected welcomed it. That is what the Government is proposing, and if that is not what it is proposing, it will be able to tell me later, even Mr Azpiazu will be able to tell me at the meetings we are going to have before the budgets. But this is going to be the picture for the coming year and you will continue to renounce to legislate the present laying the foundations for a worthy future for young people. But, of course, if that is going to be the reality in 2020, the new decade for Basque youth is barely beginning, a decade that for young people and young women in Euskadi seems to be dragging the worst of the previous one. Unemployment, temporaryity, involuntary partiality or garbage wages have given rise to the so-called working poor I remember, when I started my career in Sarriko in 2008, eleven years ago, just the year in which Lehman Brothers also broke, we were told, and we were even taught at the university, that it had hit a very hard crisis and that we were still, well, going to be the most harmed young people over the next few years. At that time, moreover, well, being a milleurist was almost a waste, and nowadays it seems to be almost a miracle. And it is that we see that almost twelve years later, we see that what we were told at the university at the time about the crisis, which was not true, that it was not a few years, but that a model of precarious youth employment had been set up that was not limited to the period of crisis. And by looking a little further, we can see how its configuration clearly influences the structural factors that make precariousness a central element of the labour market, but also how institutional factors are; that is, it influences how the state of well-being is configured and how public resources are distributed through public policies. And that's why we need to look young And he said earlier that a shock plan is not the solution, for us, to the situation of young people in Euskadi, but we understand that it can respond to many lives and projects of young people today. However, we believe that the horizon of Basque public institutions should not be that of patching up, but that of legislating for a future that is really worth living for young people; not as the present one, which condemns us to the most absolute precarious day after day. And I regret to think, many times, how in Euskadi that cartoon of El Roto comes true We need more labour inspection to ensure that young people have the right conditions to face our future with illusion and dignity. And you, the people who rule, are burning up an entire generation. And make him look at it, because I'm really telling you they're burning up an entire generation. And we don't deserve this. Because we are the most prepared generation in Euskadi and you have condemned us to suffering. And you have the opportunity to change the course for future generations, but for that you need to listen to us and you need to keep us in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u45	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u46	Good morning to all and to all I have come down with me, I do not usually bring the atril more than the intervention, but I have come down with a series of documents, which I believe it is of interest that we know their existence. The first was published in the State's Official Gazette in December 2018; the second was presented to the Employment Commission just three months ago, and at the beginning of the year was also presented the Wage Gap Strategy. The bulletin of 8 December 2018, as I comment, published a resolution of the Secretariat of State for Employment, which published an agreement of the Council of Ministers of 7 December, approving the Youth Employment Shock Plan 2019-2021, in which the Employment Directorate of the Basque Government also participates. It is a shock plan aimed at young people, which sets out as objectives the establishment of a "quality work framework in employment", which makes young people "protagonists of their own process of job integration and qualification", and it is a plan that also develops the "specific training in equal opportunities between women and men to eliminate gender bias, combat horizontal segregation and the wage gap". It is a plan that has 6 strategic axes, 13 strategic objectives and 50 actions. A plan setting out a budget allocation for the 2019 financial year of EUR 670 million. And I begin by explaining this background to you, because on 29 January it was when EH Bildu registered this initiative that we are debating today, so that we could launch a plan of confrontation against youth insecurity, which, despite the name, should not be very urgent, because you have left this matter in line, so a few months. It is an initiative that, despite what I say to you, of the name so overwhelming that they put it, only marks a concrete measure, there is only one concrete measure in its initiative, and is to launch a "subsidy line" to support the realization of "undefined contracts", between young people, "full-time". So far the conclusion – the rest of the philosophy – which, on the other hand, does not mean any innovation, and you know it because you mentioned it in your own intervention. There are already lines of subsidies under way to finance the indefinite recruitment of young people: the Lehen Aukera programme, which you demonise, subsidises indefinite contracts with young people, full-time, with an amount of more than EUR 10,000. Now, if I keep reading, I think, I don't know if I lost track at some point of your speech, but your slogan, or the mantra that you're repeating, I haven't heard you say it, but your initiative, the initiative of origin and the pact, tells me of something that sounds to me a lot that you've been repeating and are repeating, and it's the famous issue of the 1.200 euro wage guarantee. A slogan to which you know that the Socialists always objected with the same arguments and that today I am not going to get rid of them, I think they will be repeated. Yesterday you warned me by email: "Man, I know there are issues where we have difficulty meeting, but I am not going to give them up." Well, I'm going to give you back the arguments why we can't get into this with you. And the first is because to guarantee a minimum wage, Mr Estarrona, already the socialist government that leads Pedro Sánchez has approved a few months ago that no one can charge in 2019 less than 12,600 euros a year, the famous 900 euros of the interprofessional minimum wage. That is, the first tool we have to set a minimum wage is precisely that, right?, the fixing of the interprofessional minimum wage. And the second one they know perfectly well, even if it is only because of the number of times I repeat it from this rostrum, and it is that the second tool to guarantee a minimum wage is held by collective agreements or is carried out through collective agreements. And they also know that it is not we, parliamentarians, but the social partners, who, within the scope of collective bargaining, must negotiate and agree on the different working conditions in which contracts of employment have to be developed in Euskadi, Spain and where they touch. And they're on it. I remind you, I reminded you, V state agreement on collective bargaining, progressive establishment by 2020 of a salary not less than 14,000 euros per year. I told you a few months ago – and some of you have ended this way – that you are playing a headline policy, playing a policy of creating false expectations, that you are more focused on that than on development and on real support for concrete measures to improve the situation of workers in Euskal Herria, including also, logically, young workers. And it's very good to go out to the rostrum and talk, and it's very good to also say, "Since this vote doesn't interest me, it hasn't come out the way I want, I don't vote I don't support budgets I am going to ask them to remember and reflect on their "no 1,200 euros from Navarre", in which they did not have to ask from a rostrum because they were an opposition with intent and commitment, but they were government, but they were a government without intent and commitment. And I also want to remind you, and you know it, that between the date you presented this initiative of the famous shock plan and the debate we are having today, there has been the presentation in the Employment Committee of the operational action plan 2019, aimed especially at young people. A plan that fits within a four-year plan, because now you want another plan that lasts another four years, is that we already have one that lasts four years (2018-2021), that is we already have it, and we also have a plan with operational actions. You speak of "shock plan"; we speak of "operational plan". Just as terminology also has a lot to do with it; I like things to be "operational", you like them to "shock". Well, they're ways of looking at the issues. This plan, and you know it, is related, among other things, to the Strategic Employment Plan, to the Housing Master Plan, to the Operational Plan to Reduce the Wage Breache in Euskadi, because all the public policies that the Basque Government is developing are aligned in the achievement of that objective that you also claim to pursue, which is the emancipation of youth, the possibility of developing a life project according to your expectations. The plan, you know, you don't say it, but it does provide the data from the latest report on the situation of youth in Euskadi, which has published the Basque Youth Observatory, which are not coincident at all with what you put on your initiative. I don't intend to go into a data fight, because we can all go into the website of the Housing Observatory and we can read the diagnosis perfectly, draw conclusions. I am not so dramatic or pessimistic; I also believe that youth is often, by nature, optimistic, it is in the time of life that you are more eager to fight and more force to do so, and I believe that catastrophic discourses do not lead anywhere. I'm going to highlight only one of the data. In education and training, what he says is that early school leaving continues to drop in Euskadi, that people who complete a vocational training cycle have a job insertion of 78.7%; those with a university degree, a 74.3; that in employment, the youth unemployment rate has dropped, closing 2018 at a rate of 16.1 – by the way, the rate of women is lower than that of men–. Temporality is high, indeed, in youth and other workers' groups, and especially in women, both young and not so young. The average net salary of a young person employed in Euskadi is 1,093 euros. I do not know whether that is the poverty threshold or not, but it is 1,093, the data contained in the report. I'm telling you, a plan we call "operational," you prefer another type of ratings. We do not have a single line of subsidies in this plan that we have presented to you or that has been presented to you by the Government, but there are 212 actions. One, grants; another, another typology. It is a budget that does not have 20 million euros, it has 252 million euros. In particular, in the area of employment, a total of 71 actions and 67 million euros. Of course, not with your votes, I will also remind you: budget extension, using the resources, because you decided that we did not prioritize spending, nor increased spending, nor introduced spending for 2019. We're better off talking and not getting engaged. Lines of subsidisation for recruitment –including that which you now want, indefinitely, which we already have – the relay contracts, the scholarships from the world of education to work, the Global Training programme, the youth recruitment programmes by local authorities, the programmes of guidance, accompaniment, research, integration, entrepreneurship. It is a plan that builds on the 2018 data and proposes new actions or the revision of some of the existing programs or actions. Evaluation and improvement. Look at you, there we agree, we like to evaluate and we like to improve. But it is also to pretend to ignore – and I have told you this – that the Basque Government has also presented the Operational Plan to Reduce the 2019-2020 Wage Breache, with three challenges, which is to eliminate wage discrimination, reduce occupational segregation and deepen action from and for equality. 60 measures, 283 million; there is not a line of work to act on the wage gap, but there are 60. You see, it is not that we have a shock plan with a specific measure, but that we have at least three interrelated plans, with a lot of measures and with an allocated budget. It is a multi-departmental plan; the situation of young people and the people of Euskadi is not solved by a single measure, from a single department, and this is an action that we have very clearly. I do not know, but it gives me the feeling that it would be much more useful for us, as Mr Bollain said, to be less of the headlines and to want to commit ourselves a little more. Anyway, now we will start, on the return of the summer, with a document quite important for that of showing what we really want to say here and we want to move the young people. It's called Budget 2020. There you have a real opportunity, to say that you are not going to be useful and that you are going to be committed to the youth and to the rest of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u48	, ladies: Thank you, Mr. President. Chief physician, welcome to everyone and good morning to everyone. Well, today, once again, we've come to talk about the proportions of the young man's role. On our side, from our group, we clearly see that we must end with the young men's preparation, that we must improve them in the quality of employment, and that our conditions of work are to improve us, and that it is the primary work for us. He's got all kinds of sizes running and their machine's running. If those jobs you plan are marked, do it differently. And you mentioned the words and the change that was given in speech by the president of 2012. I think it would have to change the rate of unemployment from 2012 to almost 30% as soon as it came down to 15%. The privilege now is not only to make young men work, but to have the quality of their employment better, and of course to change in discourse, but also in actions. And I think he'd do something about it, or do something about it, together with a lot of other operators, because this isn't about an operator, but I think he'd figure something out. And yes, has the speech changed? Of course, it's obvious that we must change because the rate of unemployment has improved, but we have a budget on the table today. As long as occupational and unemployment improve, we have partiality and provisionalness, and we don't like the data we have. And that's what we have to deal with. That's clear. And that's where young plans are to deal with it, and they mark integrated politics. It's a plan that unites all those proportions that affect us young people. On that plan, too, it requires a lot of contact between the fun departments so that all the departments can start active policies for young people. And it is true, because of the situation we now live in, that the measures which are most important are proportioned to the measures taken, but besides which we have also the End of Ending between the Double-A-Axic or Men and Women. And all these documents are not eternal; these documents are always in a state of change, they are living, they are founded on constant evaluation, and, to introduce new changes and measures necessary, I think there is no difficulty. IV. As an example. We have a young plan. Apart from the measures planned in 2019, after the evaluation of 2018, 38 new measures were held to the plan. In 2018, the operation of the year before was performed in the same manner, and a new action of 56 was introduced into the plan. I think, therefore, that there is a will, that there is an engagement, and that there is always will to new measures and change. Could there be more? Well, that's like writing a letter to the kings. Of course, we can ask for more, we can do more and there's always the margin for that. Now we'll have to do that from the reality, and these plots we bring here must be realists, because, after all, they must come to face the real problems of people and of young people in this case. And then we need realistic planning to do that. We are clearly aware that in all programs that are being started, as in the First Option program, or as in financial contracts, we must demand, of course, a few of the minor companies, to improve the quality of the job, and that for years we must improve and improve the standards of exigency. But we must also make it clear that the contract we're proposing to finance should be made to attach to these companies as well as to keep them in mind. It's what we need them to believe in it and try to participate in those programs. Because we all want ideal situations, but we know what the reality of the moment is. That's why we don't agree with the impact plan you plan, because we don't think those measures are realistic, and we don't think we'll be able to sign any more contracts because the reality of this town is known and we've got a lot of small companies. And what we have to do is to believe these small and average companies and companies in these programs, to keep them close to them, to attach them to their projects, and to believe that these young people are worth their business, and that we have to apply our efforts to them. You talk about impacts, we talk about operating plans, we talk about action plans. We're just trying to bring in specific actions. We want to make a constant evaluation of all the policies that are made, and to make them a improvement, because we know we need our place, but we want to stay in those general plans, too, where we have the Young Horne Plana, but later we want to be in the general plans of each department, and not as if we were to be particular collective or martial. Every policy set in motion, every plan, every measure, every efficiency, changes and changes it for years. And it's not enough. We're facing a commercial problem. Plans, there's a lot of them. First, that the transition to the work world is a program and a formation, programs to protect the young, local employment plans, opposition to young people by public offers, relebo programs, young return programs, the doubles of the formation, the scholarships of specific sectors... And all these programs and actions have changed for years. Currently, in these programs and actions, the dimensions of the contracts are included in order to improve the quality of the contracts. And again do I say the same thing: we must do more than this. Duela gutxi, aurten, Sara de la Rica, Luís Miller eta Lucía Gorjónek txosten bat egin dute, deitzen da Perfilado de personnes desemplés en collective de jeunes The collective community of young people who are at high school has a low degree of independence compared to the average of total unemployment. And they're not chromed, and they're completely connected with the work trade. But there is a collective one, who quotes it, who counts it in 3.103 persons, who have no second form, which are remote from the trade, and who are in danger of crooning, and hires the revenues. And we must give them an answer, which also concerns us. And after making an analysis of this situation of Basque youth in this report, they also study international experiences on public employment policies, and make concrete proposals for Euskadi. And they're asking us to reintegrate the children into training. So, yes, data concerns us and we don't content ourselves. No, we know we have to keep working and we have to take steps, but we have to keep working. It is true that public institutions must exercise the actions of promotement of social employment, but they will not be in the hands of a single organization, and we believe that there must be something which we must employ in conjunction with more agents. All active policies put on the march have given us results. I think it's not enough, but at least it's not like the measures you're planning on, when you're bringing it out of the improvisation, looking for it and limiting that current collision plan, but, as a result of a constant work, which answers to the reality of the moment by a constant evaluation. Because with this initiative, you didn't want to make a deal, you didn't want to. We've come to the agreements so far, and if we wanted to, we'd sit down together and talk about them, but we didn't. You've been trying to get a bump of patterns here and you're looking for a pattern of opposition and government, otherwise we'd just sit down and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Popular. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Counselor, Mrs. Artolazabal. Much information has been provided from this forum in this debate and in other debates and in other presentations of employment plans and strategies on the employment situation of young people in the Basque Country community. And of course, the statistics are so varied that each one can take a given and demagogicize about it and defend any position. I'm going to give you an objective. I have looked at many, I have reviewed many, Mrs Artolazabal, and I have looked for one that I believe is neither the best nor the worst, and it is the result of the evolution of employment policies towards young people that this government has. Look, it's the published data – the source is very reliable, I think, it's the INE, I don't think anyone questions that source – it's the employment data that you found among the under 25s and that you've left in the first two years of the legislature. The one in 2016 told us that 19.6% of young people who wanted to look for a job, who wanted to start working, could not get it. That's right, one in five couldn't work when I was trying to do it. Two years later, in 17 and 18, you were already ruling, you had put in place employment plans and strategies to put an end to the precariousness of youth employment, and that figure had risen from 19.6 to 24.2. Five points, practically, had gone up. Of one in five young people who wanted to work and didn't get it, we are already in one in four young people who wants to work and doesn't get it. It's full year data. I tell you that there are better data and there are worse data, because we could talk, leaving aside that the evolution of the population, above, in that spectrum of society is negative. That is, we have fewer and fewer people within that age, some because they have left and others because the population, the vegetative growth is negative, we have fewer and fewer young people. If we leave constant – and you who are an economist know a lot more about these things than I do – if we leave constant the population variable, instead of going to one in four young people who want to work, we will go almost 30%, to one in three of those young people. But let's leave it as it is, because I believe that the important thing is evolution, which has been negative, which has gone wrong. And here, a little while ago, we were told that things were going well, and that we have instruments, and that they work, and that we don't have to worry because there are so many strategies, so many plans going on, that what they're really giving is a horrific result. I say "horrorous," Mrs Artolazabal, because if you look at that youth unemployment among what is the sector of the female population, the data are much worse. If we compare these data on youth employment developments in other employment bands –understanding that young people are up to the age of 31 or that is at least the spectrum of the population to which youth policies are directed – as there are other margins of the population where these data are also quite worse. What I want to make clear, Mrs Artolazabal, is that, indeed, the evolution and the outcome of the policies put in place by the government of people Government of the elderly Government of the young people who want to start working And that has an impact on our economic activity and our brutal social reality, because it is our young people who are leaving, because because they do not find work and do not have the ease to make a development of life on our land they have to go away. They go away and that wealth, that training they have acquired in our educational system goes away from among our fingers, escapes us. They're getting out of here and that's what Basque society loses. That is why I do not agree at all with the employment policies that have been proposed to us since EH Bildu and from Elkarrekin Podemos; I do not share the recipes that they put for the evils that I think are obvious and patent, and that you yourself know; I do not share those kinds of recipes, but I do share the need to make a call for attention, and that is why I am going to ask that this initiative be voted for points because I believe that there is a part that is important, that this Parliament should put a voice up and that it should pay attention to that policy that you are carrying out, and that the spokesmen of the groups, which in this case more than supporting the government, have been a little bit quiet. We were only talking about those who wanted to work, imagine if we went in to analyze what types of contracts are found; when that contract is part-time, when what they want is full-time; if we face the remuneration they receive for those jobs with respect to other spectra of the population... In that situation, well, I don't want to tell you the criticisms that might rain on you. I want to stick to the data I have given you, it is very simple, it is very objective and, moreover, it is true: the situation, the evolution has gone to worse than the situation of young people who are looking to find work, in other autonomous communities and in Europe, and, moreover, we are doubling the percentage of unemployment at the gross level, with which we are also getting out of the evolution of the rest of the countries in our environment in Europe. That is why I will ask, if the groups that have signed the transaction admit it to us, to vote for points because I believe that it is necessary to set foot on the wall and that the government wakes up, wakes up and begins to think really about what our future is, which is the work of our young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing to responses turn. Mr. Estarrona, representative of the EH Collector, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u52	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. I do not share style, it is not my style, trying to ridicule the approaches that we make other political groups, other parliamentary groups. They ridicule him by saying that they are "slogans", saying that they are "titlers", even saying that it is "a letter to the Magi", a proposal that is quite well detailed and that, moreover, the Government had on the table many of the issues raised here in a serious budget negotiation that we had in the previous budget year. Therefore, "letter to the Wise Kings", no, and realism, all and absolute. Mrs Castelo spoke of the urgency we had, having introduced her in January. If we had presented it before the elections, we would probably have been called electoralism, because you only usually go to the forms, you don't usually go to the bottom of the issue, because you have many contradictions in this government that you share with the Basque Nationalist Party, because many of the issues that you raise in Madrid, as the SMI of 900 euros has been, it is very easy to understand why, why we here what we are asking, and not us, also the trade unions and other social movements and agents are raising the 1,200 euros. Spanish statue, barne-produktu gordina per capita If it's a minimum wage in the Spanish state, and it's on the edge of poverty, that minimum salary in the Basque Country, isn't it? It is logical to think that it must be higher, and therefore we believe that this wages must be adapted, and we must take a step to the socienometical reality of adoption. And yet there is another reason why we should place that 1,200 euros on the table, because the Social Letter of Europe requires his 4. p. According to the interpretational criteria of the Social Letter, the minimum pay to guarantee a worthy life, at least because it must be 60% of the average salary, and in our community here, where our average salary is 2,000 euros, that 60% puts the minimum salary in 1,200 euros. Beraz, we know that we do not have the competence to establish an SMI, but in those policies, in those programmes and in those measures that this Government is putting in place, it does, it can set those 1,200 euros as a minimum wage to receive people who enter the labour market. And he said that the agreement would be difficult because he had already told him that he would not give up on some of the issues he raised. Yes, but I do not give up my principles, but I do not give up my principles or common sense either. As I have said, that is why we are asking for the 1,200 euros. And why, if a shock plan has been put in place in Madrid, is it not possible to put a shock plan here? And why, if in Portugal, in your Housing Plan, you are going to put a limitation on renting, why here you, who have the Housing Department in your hands, are not able to put it? And yet, the batezbesteko Eta diskurtsoan aldaketa egon della egia da, Gurutxaga anderea, baina ekintzetan, eta aipatus dira hemen, aipatus dira hemen, 2018ko ebaluazioa, Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Reactivation, the progress of the results of 2018, and which have been introduced and improved in the Strategic Employment Plan, in the Operational Action Plan 2019. But again we see that there are no qualitative indicators which, as you say, Mrs Gurutxaga, indicate what this Government should do, what policies it should implement, to improve the quality of employment, which is the outstanding subject. Because the star program, which is Lehen Aukera, if we see in this 2019 Operational Action Plan, only the only indicators that are established to see its effectiveness are the number of young people hired through the program and the number of companies benefiting from the aid. This, it seems to us, is also ongoing and ongoing non-compliance, because initiatives have been adopted here to establish once and for all in these government programmes, in these government plans, qualitative indicators, because if not, and it was set as an example, that in indefinite contracts with Lehen Aukera they have a higher subsidy than partial contracts. But, well, I, from an entrepreneur's point of view, that one of my objectives is to earn money for the company, apart from job creation and another set of objectives, to say, if I have the option of a contract in practice grant at least 12 months, to be subsidized with 5,040 euros, and yet for an indefinite one I will only receive 1,200 euros more from this government, I obviously believe that the grantable difference, in economic terms, is not important enough to really boost indefinite contracts. But, as I have said, we believe that the initiative which we have brought here today, which goes in a particular direction, will continue to bring in the plans which we have placed here on the table. And Mrs. Castelo put it on and finally, Mrs. President... Do not hesitate, in the negotiations of 2020's budgets, we shall have several measures here arranged on the table, and we will endeavour to arrive at the agreement of our young men, the youths of this country and our country, because they deserve a much more plentiful future than this government offers to us today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u53	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u54	Thanks again. The first option, as you say, the money in the budget was only executed at 30 percent. So the plan isn't just what it gets, but also how useful it's finally got, how useful it's got at the end of it, the porque jecutar in 30% de un plan, que el boomo insignia del Gobierno en cuanto juvenil, pues lee suyo. I do not know how dare you, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, to say that the situation has gone to worse for young people, if, well, you have already said the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, the Government says, that it is improving, that we must continue to improve, but that the Government is in it. Baina gauza da ere bai poses mendu errrealistak eskatzen zituela Gurutxaga andreak. Badakizu zer den, Gurutxaga andrea, posemendu erralista bat? Berdina Egypt age itxarotea gauzak aldatu egingo say horrella. Baina, if you keep doing the same thing, things are never gonna change. If we've been doing the same thing for six, seven years, things don't change. And the government is in on this. Mrs Artolazabal does absolutely nothing to change the situation of young people in the Basque Country. Mrs Artolazabal and Deputy Councillor Muro are doing absolutely nothing beyond what was being done in previous years: repeat in the budget, repeat the amounts, which are not executed in previous years... What is happening with this Government with regard to youth is a real misconception. For Mrs. Castelo, "policy of headlines," she said. Well, let's say that one person representing a party that supports the marketing government in Europe. The second thing you said was "the average salary of 1,090 euros." An appreciation of what Mr Estarrona said, the average rent in Euskadi is already at 1,047 euros. That is, with 50 euros to eat, pay for heating, have some leisure, those things, young people don't give us, with 50 euros between the average rent and the average salary of young people. And I repeat, it seems to you that, in order to earn an average of 1,090 euros, we young people have to thank this Basque government for being mileurists. I don't think so. And then it came with weight plans, it seems you measure the weight plans, but why are you going to get weight plans, while doing the same, better results? Mrs Castelo, instead of coming up with weighty plans, you could have protested, your party protested, on the Governing Council, when the closure of La Naval was defended. And industry is falling down year by year in Euskadi, already below 25% of GDP, and you are condemned to young people to go to precarious sectors, such as hotels or tourism in Euskadi. That's what really condemns us young people. And fourthly, of course, the budget is worth everything now, in these debates that come from now to December they will enter the budgets into absolutely all the debates. You said, "commit yourself to citizenship." Compromising with the citizens of this country is not accepting octopus as a pet for 30 million euros. Because what you like is that we market for the low, for 30 million euros, and our usefulness to this country's society is not to market for the low, for 30 million euros, to see what we can scratch this government. Our usefulness is not that; our usefulness is in trying to promote policies that will really improve the lives of all the citizens of Euskadi. And do you know what we proposed for those budgets that were not finally approved? We proposed an employment plan of EUR 150 million; we proposed the public rescue of La Naval; we proposed 40 new jobs in the Labour Inspectorate, so that the young people of Basquedi are not exploited; we proposed housing policies also aimed at young people; we proposed that income guarantee income also cover young people aged 18 to 23, something this Government does not want, something that Mrs Artolazabal's department does not want to do; we also proposed to increase by EUR 30 million to expand and improve the centres of the Basque public network and the new faculty of medicine of the UPV; we also proposed a return plan of EUR 6 million, with measures for young people who have had to go into exile because they did not have opportunities in this country. That is what it is like to do a policy for young people and not to bring to this Parliament plans by weight, to measure plans by weight, when absolutely nothing is being done that has not been done in previous years and has been seen to have not worked. Because Mrs Artolazabal will be an economist, as Mr Ruiz de Arbulo said, but of audiovisuals little, because she neither listens nor listens to the opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u56	Well, I'll be brief and I'll start, anyway, at the end. "We have asked, we have asked, we have asked, we have asked." What have you got? What have you got? Nothing. What is the use? Why are you here? Because it's very good to put maximums, I've told you many times, it's very good to put maximums, sit comfortably behind a seat and not commit. In compromise, in the scope of agreements with different political formations, one has to move from its initial position, and that does not mean giving up principles. We do not give up principles, but we do understand that positions must be drawn up to ensure that measures are put in place that benefit those whom we represent, who do not cease to be the young people or the rest of the people who live in this country. And I don't ridicule any proposals or come with proposals to the weight The lines of master subsidies that the Basque Government has, that star plan, which is Lehen Aukera, which, by the way, does is to subsidize indefinite recruitment, in addition to others, but also the indefinite one, with up to 10,000 euros if it is indefinite, and it is in the case of women, he says, "because that does not serve." But if you're proposing a grant line, a grant line! I mean, someone who hires, who gets money to hire. And Mr. Bollain in his exhibition tells me, "it's that we don't have to put public money in those companies." Let's see, let's see if we're clear, because you're being contradictory, you're being contradictory. And it's very good to come down to the gallery, it's very good to ask for things and it's very good to then parapet in the chair. Is the budget going to be worth it from now on? Look, I'm not going to try to explain why, because I've already done it in this rostrum – you've listened to me and, furthermore, you know it's repetitive when I come down here – which means for us the instrument of the "interprofessional minimum wage", for everyone alike. For everyone alike. I told you at the time: Galicians, extremists, Andalusians, Madridns or Basques. We don't care. We want an interprofessional minimum wage for all; we do not distinguish. You, we know you're at another time, with another varnish and another fight; it's not ours and there you won't find us. And then they're contradictory, because they call me "the Bizilagun program." For the Bizilagun programme is a novel programme that has been launched for young people, to help them to emancipation, and that is having a good reception. And, of course, they tell me, "It's that it's limited to 790 and the average rents are more." But in the next speech he told me that we are not brave enough to put a price on rents. Let us be clear, because if we say that you rent up to 790, what we want is to force not to pay rents above that amount, in the competition that this Parliament has. In the Congress of Deputies – and you know it – that debate has been held not too many months ago and there, in that need for agreements and in that withdrawal of others, as I say, to the rear But it is true that we are not complacent, but we believe that the Government is in line with that objective which you claim to pursue, which is to achieve the emancipation and improvement of the working conditions of young people and other workers in this country. In that regard, we cannot support it; we knew that we were going to have difficulty reaching agreement on this subject, and we are going to maintain our amendment. And we are curious that the People's Party is talking to us about data. I will only mention it, and I think you were present when the President of the Basque Youth Council appeared a few days ago, and she made a sentence that Mr Bollain has also repeated today, and that is that the situation has improved compared to 2015. And neither the INE nor the Eustat, but the representative of the young people of Euskadi, says so. And if we had to ask ourselves why job insecurity, not only in the youth collective, but also in the entire labour market, would have to reflect, look at where we have the causality or the problem of the causality of temporary contracts, if you sound like the word "work reform" and if you remember who did it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, at no time have I ever wanted to ridicule anyone; I believe that all the proposals brought here are debatable and I think they are lawful and legitimate, and I did not want to do that. Now, I think they're not realistic, and that's what I wanted to emphasize. What I think is that you can ask for a lot of things, but then, realize, you have to see what can be done. What you have done, I suppose, has been a general, higher degree of experience, made a whole board, and made a complete table for all of us in all contracts to answer real problems or other problems. And that's what I wanted to explain. For, whether you like it or not, we have a form of work, and legally corporations have a way of getting cheap contracts from where we can get them, and the more we ask those companies, the more they have their way, the more they have their way, the more they have another kind of contract we have to do, the way we're going to make them believe they can do it, and the young people can help us into their programmes and their teams, and we've got to work for them. But we can't give them more and more examples, because then they won't come in and I wanted to explain that, and I don't want to be circumcised with it. And then, I think we've often got a company imagination... I've mentioned it before. We have a lot of small corporations in Basque, and having these little companies is not rich enough to make them, and they often need a few minimum of charity to hire workers so that they can have a few foundations. And I think we ought to consider that, too, and know our reality there, and what it is we meet with. Then I don't know if I speak very quickly or not express myself well, but I have never said that everything is going well; quite the contrary. I have repeated on several occasions that we are faced with a youth who is indeed experiencing a precarious employment situation, that we need to improve the quality of employment of these young people, that all that has to change, and that I believe that there is a lot of work to be done, but I also believe that it is being done, and that there are many open lines in which we could work together and take them forward. It is clear that we must be in continual improvement and innovation, that we must face the youth interpreter, and that we do not stay in these recipes for ever. We think we should change our policies every year. Now, should we change his name every year? Rename from one planet to another and that's enough? For every year, we'll call it a "dach plan," in another way... And that's enough? No, we believe that there are some blockheads marked and that we must always include changes in them, and it's a market that changes every year and we'll have to deal with it. And that is where I have wanted to limit my discourse. And I think that hitherto we have always shown the will to make a treaty, that we have always wished to introduce new innovations into those lines marked, to make a suggestion of changes, to insert the different measures you plan. It's always been our wish. I think we've always tried it, but this time your wish wasn't that: You didn't want us to get into this deal. That's why we keep our full correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Guruga. Popular group. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I reiterate the request to the groups that have signed the transaction, both EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, to allow us to vote for points their amendment, their agreement between the two positions. We would like to vote in favour of the first two and, logically, we do not share the two seconds, because I insist that everyone in this House, or almost everyone, believes that the diagnosis is negative, but the solutions, of course, that we propose are different. It has not given me time before to explain why I think your solutions are not the most valid. I do not share that minimum wage of 1,200 euros for any young person with an indefinite contract in the face of the situation that those over the age of 31 do not have to have that wage perception. What we would be getting is that these young people did not work and did so from 32, 33 onwards, covering those jobs and preventing the development of the life projects of these young people. Either the minimum wage is for everyone or a stigmatization by age I think it is negative and precisely those who would affect the most would be young people: far from protecting them, we would destroy those job opportunities. The fact that there are more or less quantities in a shock plan in the Community's general budgets, I believe that this is a debate that is going to open, I hope, from October onwards and that is serious, and that we can actually reflect what the important items are. I told you that I did not share either the employment policies of EH Bildu or those of Elkarrekin Podemos, and I forgot to say that we do not, of course, share those of the Socialist Party, which now tells us that the precariousness of young people, the jobs of young people, their poor employment situation or the bad conditions of those who do have jobs is the fault of the People's Party. Look, Mrs Castelo, when the Socialist Party enters through the government door, the job goes out the window and is thrown out of the attic. I'm not going to give you specific data year by year. You go and look at the evolution of employment: creating thousands and thousands of public jobs, yet they destroy net employment. Why? Because they charge private employment with their employment policies, their labour policies, their economic policies, their labour relations policies. A complete dislate. And if not, time to time, and we'll see how things were going a year ago and how things are going to go this year, when we already have the comparative data for this particular period. Mrs Gurutxaga, I am indeed holding your hand to implement those employment policies necessary for young people, but seriously, with self-criticism. Things have gone wrong, which is what I haven't heard yet. Recently, reviewing today's debate, I saw the statements by Mrs Artolazabal, who said that, in fact, the medal was put on behalf of the entire Government, which had generated an initial employment experience for 15,000 young people. And I was proud to say it. I think it's pretty positive, that's seeing the half full bottle. I, in these matters, prefer to see it half empty. And I would like to know whether you, Mrs Artolazabal, are responsible for all those young people who have not had that first job experience and who have had to leave here to look for life elsewhere, where policies, it seems that they were more correct, that it is easier to work, that it is easier to earn more money than our young people have the opportunity in our community. That is why we want to support that part of the initiative, to give attention to the Government, and to change employment policies aimed at our youth, because that is our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. End of discussion, we're going to put the middle-line correction into the vote, what EH Collect and Podemos signed together. He's asking for stitches, that's possible. If I get it right, don't you, y el resto? - Valerie. Well, then, we vote one and two. For the first time, we'll vote for two points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 36; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u62	So, since it's a draw, we vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 36; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u63	The principle of equality follows, therefore, that we leave it to the next assembly. Number of points in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the members of the American legislature of the Popula, Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Abulo, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning again, members of the government and fellow members of the House. This debate that I propose today, this motion, this initiative, is not new...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u65	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u66	It has already been debated, asked, answered, or wrongly answered specifically, and that is why we see ourselves again in the thesis of trying to carry out a motion that puts, black on white, the government's obligation to comply with the rules. A few months ago we asked the Security Councilwoman, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, what was happening with the purchase, through a financial rental that was going to cost 20 million euros in five years, of 300 vehicles that seem to not meet the needs of the agents of the Ertzaintza, our autonomous police, the agents closest to citizen security, because they are the vehicles with which they patrol the streets, vehicles with badges, with or without mammary (150 with mammary and 150 without mammary). At that time, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia told us that the complaints were very few, that they were photocopied by a union, implying that they were invalid or of no importance, and that the purchase had been satisfactory, because she received the praises and thanks of many more agents than those who had filed the formal complaint. I was reassured by his reply, because it was indeed a few agents who had addressed the Group of the European People's Party to tell us: "We have this problem and we need it to be debated, investigated in Parliament and resolved". What Mrs Beltrán de Heredia did not tell us that day, perhaps because she did not know it, had not told her from her department, or because she decided to hide it knowing that it was important for the debate, is that in the department they had already hired a report, to the finger, to save the position of the purchase of those vehicles, in a sanctioning file that was already underway and that had opened the Bizkaia Labour Inspectorate. That day he didn't tell us anything; he ridiculed the complaints, he said they were photocopies of a union, but he didn't tell us – something that I, who went out to ask her, also didn't know – that there was already a formal complaint under inspection, that the complaint was serious and that, in order to defend itself from it, it was necessary to make a report by an expert to guarantee the position of the government. That report to defend the Government already clearly states that the purchase of vehicles is not well done and that these vehicles can be harmful to Ertzaintza agents, 300 vehicles of 2,000. Several thousand agents – we don't know exactly how many; I asked her, but the counselor wouldn't answer me – several thousand agents, who are the ones who use those vehicles every day, 20 million euros in five years, and she had to go inspection and say that, in fact, the purchase was wrong. I recently asked you about this matter and I also did not have all the information, which today seems to be that I do have it, which is the final decision of the Bizkaia Labour Inspectorate, which tells you, Madam Counsellor, that you actually have to take measures, both organizational and technical, to ensure that those vehicles, which have not met the requirements with which they had to be bought, i.e. that they were optimal for the police work of the agents, are now to be corrected in some way because it seems that the financial lease does not allow us to return them and that they are replaced by new ones before the end of that period. We must therefore take measures as ridiculous as the one that asks the agents to stop the vehicle throughout the working day to carry out stretching, so that they have no problems with their shoulder, back or neck; things as absurd as that, Madam Counselor; things that you from the beginning wanted to hide from us. And that is why today, after that interpellation in which you were not frank, was not direct and was not transparent, we have had to bring this initiative, in which we demanded two very simple things: that you comply with the law. And this seems a little complicated to me because it seems contradictory to me, and I have often come up to this rostrum and say, to demand, when other colleagues from other groups have asked, that the government comply with the laws, is that it seemed to me a truth of Perogrullo. Hey, if you don't do it, you'll have to go to court or you'll have to take some other kind of initiative! But after your conduct and your answers in this matter, and seeing that you continue to none of the unions that in defense of the rights of these workers filed the corresponding complaints and that they have given them the reason, I was concerned that, in fact, you would be complying with that request of the Bizkaia Labour Inspectorate within the prescribed time limits. Double request, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, to take the technical measures to repair, to the extent possible, vehicles so that they comply with the legal obligations that it is a habitable place for workers, that they spend long hours of their journey within that vehicle and carry out hundreds of thousands of kilometers throughout their working life, to avoid that they have real health problems, which, since we do not complete the staff of the Ertzaintza nor to shoot - because we do not get the exams to pass because, apparently, they are not well raised - to see whether we are going to have a greater absenteeism because of the vehicles that have been badly chosen by some technician. Technicians who, of course, have not resigned or changed their work after this complete dislate. And the other, more serious from a political point of view, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, is that the next time you are going to make another financial lease – which I do not know if it will touch you, because it is two, three years from now, two years from now, it seems to me that it is – we will have to take out the new contract, we will have to prepare the choice of the new vehicles... please, take into account the voice of those who represent the workers' health rights, the staff delegates in the field of occupational health, which had failed and who have had to throw their ears at it. Look, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, if things were simple, they were so clear and they were so obvious that we have reached an agreement with the groups that support the government – with the Socialist Group and with the Basque Nationalist Group – we have signed an amendment and we are going to demand, among all of you, that you please comply with the law as soon as possible, and that, once it is completed, you make a report, you come to this Parliament and tell us how you have complied, how well you have done things and how the cars are finally as you should be before you make that purchase which, of course, was not done according to the rules in force. I ask Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu to support this initiative, logically, for the government to implement it. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u68	President, ladies and gentlemen. We are faced with a technical problem, I think, moreover, with an outcome, already advanced by the proposer, satisfactory. I would simply like to remind you that, when the renewal of cars came to the competition, there was absolutely no objection on the part of anyone, and that those cars, when they have been put into circulation, to a certain physical structure of ertzainas has caused them some problem. Well, this, let's say it's a technical problem that can occur in a service of 7,000 and peak agents, with a fleet of vehicles of many types of vehicles, therefore, also with short-term solutions to the extent that problems are solved in order to be able to meet, in correct conditions of occupational health and safety, the functions they have entrusted. I think it is a minor problem, that is, I do not think it has a political significance, as sometimes the fact that you have come to this House so many times seems to be possible. In fact, it's done the right thing. It is the labour authority that has to determine, where there is a problem, a dispute, in this regard, under what circumstances or under what conditions the technical deficiencies that can be found in any job must be resolved. That was done by the Bizkaia Labour Inspectorate. The report is received by the Government. The Government knows that it has to comply with what is at stake here. He's willing to do it. We are in time to do this, moreover, because the inspection gives a period of time to be able to resolve it, and therefore, in the end, it seems to me a little bit It is all raised; it is put on the table; everyone knows what to do; we are on time; it will be done. And the best demonstration that it has little track record is that we have immediately agreed between the proponent and the government groups because what is going to be done to a report that says the labor authority that needs to be resolved. Well, you can't do anything else. I do not think that Parliament is the place where we have to go into detail. It is clear that cars have to fulfil the functions of being able to house the police, and they, in turn, be able to make the corresponding movements so that they can attend to citizen security. And I believe that no one has questioned it and that, therefore, there is no political issue either. It is, moreover, a barbarity to call this into question. Anyway, it seems to me that we are facing a small problem in a very large place. But, well, that's how it is, because that's how we assume it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u69	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good noon. We are debating on this agenda item a motion by the People's Group, which, from our point of view, seems to be shared with Mr Prieto, and with due respect for the legitimate right of each parliamentary group to choose the subjects to be dealt with in plenary, does not make much sense, especially after receiving all the documents and explanations from the Counsellor. The aim is to solve a technical problem on which we have been working for months and which is already in the process of being resolved. Having said that, and going to the bottom of the matter, let us examine what is the real dimension, and never better said in this case, the real dimension of the problem raised, and what has been done and what is being done to try to solve it. We're talking about renewing the edge and the Miño's moving park, something that's waited and asked for. Of a mobile park of 2,300 vehicles, of which, with an important investment effort, almost half has been renewed in the last three years, the problem that we are dealing with today is centered on the 150 vehicles Seat León with mampara, and, without disregarding this number, it must be borne in mind that in that mobile park there are vehicles to meet all the needs and all the personal circumstances. You spoke, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, of "the thousands of agents who spend hundreds of hours a month riding in those vehicles." Do you know, of those thousands of agents, how many individual complaints have been filed in the Department of Security for this reason? 98 individual complaints from some 7,500 staff currently on duty, 1,3 %. Egun zerbitzua ematen duten 7,500 police, 98 kexa indibidual aurkeztu dituzte, %1.3. And without trying to ridicule them, of course, and with all due respect, and all this despite the appeal made by the majority union. It does not seem, or does seem, indicative of the reception of most of the users of these vehicles. You also know that the distance in these vehicles between the belt of the driver and the clutch and the accelerator is just 2 centimeters shorter than the 144 cars patrol Seat Altea with mammary purchased at the end of 2011 and whose acquisition and use has not caused problems. You say, well, you didn't say it today, you said it, but well, as your tone has been quite, I don't know how to qualify it... You said, I believe, in the inquiry, that these vehicles are "dangerous to workers' health", which the Labour Inspectorate says in the interim report. I have the interim and final report and I would like you to tell me on the second round, specifically, where you say, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, that they are "dangerous to the health of workers". You also know, because you were aware of this – even before you filed your inquiry in the plenary on 3 May – that the ergonomic study carried out by external staff of the Department of Safety, based on the performance of the new cars and the provision of the safety elements that incorporate, both active and passive, qualifies them as "vehicles of excellence", "vehicles of excellence", in the light of the criterion that you have presented here, a few minutes ago, that these vehicles are not optimal. Its criterion, I do not know the knowledge it has in the field of occupational risk prevention, ergonomics, etc., etc. And by the way, it's the same model that the Civil Guard has acquired (249 vehicles) recently. And it makes clear this report that all the problems identified in the Seat Lion are in the rank of a "light discomfort", a term that refers to this discomfort, to that discomfort that qualifies as "tolerable risk", "tolerable risk". It will agree with me that it is not easy to reconcile the demands of police operation with the physical, hygienic and ergonomic safety conditions of users and users, and that level of discomfort in the Seat León is due to the fact that they carry a cabin for persons detained or imprisoned, which makes the front seats cannot be pushed back and, in this sense, as the adviser also mentioned, it is important to bear in mind that among the public protection personnel who are likely to use these specific vehicles there are only 200 people, 200 people, barely, who are over 1.87 metres tall. This is the real dimension of the problem, which, of course, which of course, without ridicule, we must try to find a solution, and we are working on it. What has been done and what is being done? First, we would like to highlight the extensive experience of the Department of Safety and Security contracting bodies in this area, which have been referenced in the sector. The vehicles, these 150 and the other 328, were contracted through a public procedure, according to a specification of technical bases which they had to comply with and which they complied with – so do not say that they did not comply – where the improvements which they had to achieve, based on the experience of previous acquisitions and derived from the use of those vehicles, were made with the input of commanders, agents, technical services and maintenance area and workshops. These bases were published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, in the Official Journal of the Basque Country and in the Official Journal of the European Communities, and despite the fact that the subject of the renewal of the mobile park has also been dealt with at various meetings of the joint bodies of the department, no one appealed against these specifications, these recruitment specifications, as Mr Prieto said. Iork ez zuen takeik jarri, ez eurek ez gerora kexatu say syndikatuek. Ez zituzten balditzen pleguak errekurritu. It was after the completion of the recruitment process and the reception in July last year of the first vehicles – specifically the 150 without mammary – when the first union complaints arrived. At the time, they complained about the lack of mammary vehicles. Later, in October, with the arrival of the other 150 cars patrol with mampara, the new union complaints arrived. At the same time, the Department of Safety contracted in October to conduct an external ergonomic study – as I mentioned earlier – which, in addition to the above conclusions, sets out a number of measures and activities to eliminate or reduce risks. Then, if I have time, I will make a reference to these measures because it also makes special reference to that it is an "indissoluble everything", organizational and technical. Therefore, here if it is to ridicule, you, with the subject of stretching, take it out of a set of measures, for it is who is trying to ridicule. After the union complaint, as I said, in March there was an interim request from the Labour Inspectorate, and after the department's allegations, the final request for Labour Inspectorate, which was received at the Department of Security on 30 April, set a six-month deadline for adapting those technical measures that are feasible and feasible. He says: "to ensure that in the transport of detained persons there is no risk to health or safety, neither to drivers nor to persons moving." In other words, we must strike a balance between police operations and the other issues that he mentioned earlier. It also calls for organisational measures, which are the easiest to adopt and which follow the natural logic and common sense, and which are already being adopted. He said that the study says, in addition to putting in value with respect to the previous vehicle seven important improvements – for you are not optimal – highlights 27 strong points and 10 weak points. This study analyses all vehicles in the Ertzaintza mobile park, including vans manufactured in Gasteiz. And also in these vans there are strengths and weaknesses. We don't know – at least I don't know, just like you do – a vehicle that has all strengths and no weaknesses. Therefore, we understand that the vehicle has – as the report says – a "light discomfort" – a tolerable risk – and that we must work to solve it and reduce it, and eliminate it if possible. Finally, with regard to the right of workers to be consulted for decisions concerning the organisation of work in the company and the implications for the safety and health of workers of the choice of work equipment – in this case the police vehicles – although the Ertzaintza Safety and Labour Committee – the department's joint body – has dealt with the renewal of the mobile park on several occasions, as reflected in the relevant minutes of 22 February and 17 October last year and 13 February of the present, as the adviser said, this is a new situation that has no precedent. Never before had the purchase of vehicles gone to the Occupational Safety and Health Committee. Following the request made by the Labour Inspectorate, the department will consider how to improve the exercise of this right, safeguarding the guarantees required in public procurement processes. And I'm done. We have reached an agreement – even though the speech does not show such an agreement – and it has been easy to reach because what is really required is, first of all, that the Department of Safety is "fulfiled with the requirements made" by the Labour Inspectorate, which, of course, insists or does not urge this Parliament, has to do so by the department. And secondly – which is the only variant, so to speak, proposed by Mr Ruiz de Arbulo – is that "within the time limit set by the requirement" – he proposed in his initial proposal within three months, which was, of course, unworkable – but within the time limit set by the requirement – six months – he "remits to Parliament a comprehensive report on the technical and organisational preventive measures taken that are appropriate and feasible to ensure that Seat León vehicles do not pose a risk to the safety and health" of workers. Therefore, thanking for the willingness to reach agreement, not so much Mr Ruiz de Arbulo's speech, and requesting the support of the non-amending groups, besterik ez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u71	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mrs. García (together Podemos) is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u72	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Today it is up to us to debate a motion by the People's Group on the renewal of the Ertzaintza fleet of vehicles. For starters, it's important to review how we got here. Because we are faced with a mismanagement of the Basque Government and it is important to know it and recognise it so that a situation does not recur that impacts, fundamentally, on the working conditions, health and safety of both the agents and the citizens, and that the solution will also entail an extraordinary high expense. In January 2018 it was announced that the renovation of the Ertzaintza vehicles was finally resolved after several years of delay. It should be recalled that the Basque Government had committed itself to its renewal in 2015. Finally, the supply of 300 Seat León and 100 Toyota Land Cruiser in the mode of leasing was awarded for 37 million euros In July of the same year, the Security Adviser visited Erandio's facilities to welcome the new vehicles. The video, which collected images and statements from the adviser herself and which was distributed by the Basque Government's website, stated that it was the first delivery of a comprehensive renovation process of the Ertzaintza mobile park, which would be completed with another 150 vehicles with badges, 100 all-terrain vehicles and 70 vans for traffic. Soon after receiving and starting with the use of vehicles, it was detected that units with mampara significantly reduced the space in the front and rear. In February of this year we learned, through an article by eldiario.es Solutions proposed by this report? Spend more money on modifying the bulkheads to gain space or for agents to perform previous warm-up exercises or incorporation to work. There was even talk of postural breaks every 20 or 30 minutes, as we will comment on later. The document listed other aspects to be improved, such as restricted interior space, if it was a unit with a module for detainees; boarding and disembarking, difficult and lacking adequate conditions for safe storage within it of sticks, weapons and other elements necessary for police activity. In addition, he proposed very diverse, and some striking, measures to solve the numerous problems, such as removing the cover from the glove compartment to gain 10 centimeters for the co-pilot's knees or a seat change for a smaller one; converting the rear part to make the mast just outside a square and one of the two seats fit as a normal car; limiting or restricting its use for officials of extreme sizes –height, width, abdominal perimeter–, or suspend, as I have already told you, 20-30 minutes of police work to make postural breaks. Other organizational measures were also mentioned, such as giving the possibility of choosing a car model for patrollers, and opting for previous models. At no time is there any talk of budgets or of who would bear this cost, since the vehicles are not owned by the Administration. It should be stressed that the cars comply with the characteristics marked in the contract by the Department of Safety and Security itself. In March 2019 the Labour Inspectorate intervenes on the basis of the complaint that they make prevention delegates for the conditions of the vehicles and also because the Department of Safety carried out the process without the participation of the representation of the workers. The final request made to it by the Labour Inspectorate by the Basque Government is clear: it must take preventive, technical or organisational measures that are appropriate and feasible, and must respect the rights of participation and consultation of the legal representatives of the workers in the election of the work teams. In short, from Elkarrekin We can agree with the motivation of this matter, the bad conditions of the Seat Lion recently acquired as official vehicles by the Ertzaintza, which as we have just reported is somewhat contrasted and which has been the cause of successive press news. In addition, it joins other purchases made under the responsibility of the PNV for police officers, especially for the local police of Bilbao, where economic criteria are put before the requirements and conditions of the items to be purchased, although then they are more expensive with so many problems and consequences. Nothing new therefore, that jeltzale style For all that we have said, from our parliamentary group we understand that there are reasons and arguments for voting in favour of the initiative that Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has brought us to this House today and of the compromise amendment that he has signed with the parties that support the Government, although we would like to make some considerations. For Elkarrekin Podemos it is essential to respect the right of participation and consultation of the legal representatives of the workers, as well as other professional elements that affect the working conditions. This is a way of understanding public governance, open governance. Trade union representation is to be counted on, whether it is in the norm or not, because nothing prevents it and is much better. Nor is it a part that slows down or hinders the procedure, which in this case has also been quite a waste. It is a matter of doing things right, and that they can be done agilely. But for us it must be borne in mind that participation and consultation must be extended to associations and agencies involved in the matter, because in official vehicles police, but also persons detained and others. In fact, it is the conditions of the cabin for the detained persons that alter the characteristics to a greater extent, also influencing others, such as the problems of the seat for the belt with the gun and other devices, the reflection of the lights, etc. This section for the transfer of detainees has to be consulted with entities that promote human rights and care for the conditions of detainees, such as Ararteko, foundations, various associations and universities themselves. Consistent with the above, the operative part of the initiative should have included the guarantees of persons detained or not able to use these vehicles – transferred from victims, minors, etc. – in addition to those of the Ertzaintza professionals themselves. Measures not so much ordered, but prepared for proper service, guaranteeing the various conditions of use of official vehicles and taking into account the requirements due to the health and occupational safety of the agents. We also agree with an evaluation of the process followed so that, above all, there is a genuine learning of what has happened and that there is no repetition. And, of course, that agreement should be presented both in the Committee on Institutions, Security and Public Governance and in Parliament itself. In addition, it should carry and contain a number of conclusions and proposals for improvement, together with details of responsibilities if any. Because it seems to us that it can also be a good instrument, above all, obviously, if it is done in an independent way and by entities of prestige. In short, we will vote in favour of the proposal you have tabled today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u74	I left where I left off. Eguerdi on, Beltran of Heredia andrea. When things can be done well, why are they wrong, Mrs. Heedia de Beltrán? We know it's one of the main defects of humanity, even though it's easier to do things right, if it's simpler, because it's wrong to do things wrong. This is in the DNA of people, because we often lose the little sense we have, and we put it aside. It is, indeed, unaccountable that the subject we have in our hands has reached this grade, that it is incredible to me, for different reasons, and to discuss here today, but well. But there is one very rational and very simple thing between different reasons, without entering into regulations and law-matters, a very fundamental point of view. You, Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia, what do you do when you go to buy a car in the pavilions? And then, what I don't understand is why in this case you didn't take a edge or two and try a car. We could save a lot of things. See here how many people we have here: Pello Urizar, compare it with me, and we have a terrible man-I, the little one. We know you can't afford cars, do you, Pello? But a standard, and so we could save this knot we have now, and in this plune we wouldn't be arguing about it. But unfortunately, in public administration, we often get mixed up in a ridiculous bureaucracy in the name of regulations. Instead of answering to a situation efficiently, we often concentrate on tramation, and we forget that this transition is really a problem or a response to a situation. And, consequently, we gradually went to the public administration to make a heavy elephant move. Administration has become a heavy elephant. And often, in the name of the law, though it's often fun, it's EAJ, who doesn't keep the law, but we know: In the realm of the blind, one eye, king. And think, if we could do things right, how many resources, romances, so many recruits we could save from here, instead of prolonging and encumbrating the tramites. And the worst, the worst, as it may happen in this case, or as it will happen, avoid extra stakes in public money. For, in this case, what will happen to the public money? And I'm sorry, but, Beltán de Heedia, it's your job, the work of this government is to make public money, the money of all of us, as it should be. And this is that which is here in the background: the money isn't the money, the money isn't the EAJ, it's everybody's here. So when things don't do well, then it can't bring negative effects into the public's account. And that, Mrs. Beltán de Heedia, is unacceptable. Then you have your homework, and it's my job to hire and do the public purchase properly. Because that's what's really in the subject we're having today. And not just from a financial point of view, okay? I mean, to be effective, to have the material that these workers will really be functional, in this case cars. And also from a tolerable point of view. Why didn't they buy hybrids or other criteria with the criteria associated with permanentity? We're going to have to go in public shopping with other criteria, besides the health of work. Then again a second question: the public officers must relate to the workmen, to the citizens, to the country. The neighbourhood, Mrs. Beltán de Heedia, is not a fool. There should be more than a lot of them in the neighbourhood, and the neighbourhood demands a share. Today, Mr. Zorrill reminds us of your interaction. We need to thank him for reminding us of the interpelration, and because he read us all over. But you yourself said the purchase company had taken part in economic management, the edgeal mules and agents, the edge workshops and maintenance services. Look at the gang, and you couldn't test the cars! I think it's a little... And it's not funny, because there's public money here at stake. So, a little bit of sense. Public purchases are made with everyone's money and not with EAJ's money. So you have to be careful there. It can't be irresponsible, Mrs. Heedia in Beltrán. So you've got to get rid of the hangovers that you're wearing. That is to say, always opposition and union should come to claim, or to do the means that you can do things right. We know you're a very good salesman, but being a good salesman doesn't mean you're a good manager. That's not what it means. One, therefore, in order to manage the public money as required, perform it as quickly as possible; two, so that your mistake does not produce a negative result in the public money, otherwise we may need to enter into your pocket such criteria as this, to manage the public money as is necessary, and to manage it with care and responsibility, and the third, in order to manage your administration, the motto marabillous. In short, you will have our support, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Is someone going to talk to you on the answering shift? Yes, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to admit that I was somewhat curious about the approach that EH Bildu and Elkarrekin were going to take, because we had not tabled a complete amendment to the proposal of the Group of the European People's Party. Out of curiosity, I must also confess that I have not taken any surprises. As I said in my first speech, in Basque, we are talking about the renovation of the mobile parking lot of the Ertzaintza and the Miñones. And how is this going, Mrs. Ubera, Mrs. García? Logically, with economic resources, with economic resources of all and all, as you said, with an important investor effort. At the end of 2016, when the budgets for the 2017 financial year were discussed, where the tendering procedure for the renewal of these 478 vehicles was planned, what was the approach of both of them? Elkarrekin Podemos it is true that it did not amend the budget lines that collected the economic forecast to carry out such renovation, but it is also true that Elkarrekin Podemos did not approve that budget, with which, if they and they had depended, today it would not have been renewed that mobile park. As for EH Bildu, yesterday in the Committee on Institutions, Security and Public Governance, he told Mr Arzuaga, who thought he was going to intervene, that the movement is proving itself to be moving and that for years it has been seen what his poached police model is, and it has been seen with words and facts, and in this matter it has also been seen. In the budgets I mentioned earlier, where those budget items were collected, while we were planning to start the renovation of those 470 vehicles, finally 478, to significantly improve the situation of the Ertzaintza mobile park, what did you propose? In addition to other important mitigations, they proposed to reduce the budget for the rental of vehicles by almost 80%, but also the supply of parts and spare parts by 44 % and by 100 % the purchase of vehicles for fleet renewal. That's empowering the Ertzaintza. And also the 2018 budgets. So, while you insist that the Ertzaintza does not have the indispensable means to carry out its task of safeguarding the security of all, we want a police formed, prepared, modern and adequately equipped, assuming the commitment to the security of people and of personal and collective property. On the other hand, there is the question of the rights to health and protection of Basque police workers, which Mrs García has perhaps had a greater impact. Just yesterday, also in that Committee on Institutions, Security and Public Governance, where they were present, not Mrs Ubera, but yes Mrs García, we voted on the report of the presentation for the adoption of the fifth amendment of the Police Act. And some were trying to give us lessons of coherence and congruence, but, as I said, the movement is showing itself moving, and within this reform of the Police Act, there is a chapter V, in particular Title 3, Mrs García, dedicated to health and protection, and in particular Articles 79 and 79a, regulate precisely these issues, which were improved with the amendments adding the People's Group. And what was your approach? To vote against the modification, of everything, of those rights of workers as well. You may have asked for a separate vote on these articles, but you are very maximalistic. So, everything's wrong, so is this. And with regard to what she said, in particular, she was unaware of Mrs García's visionary powers, when she said that the solution was going to entail an excessive expense. Also, that I did know, the way Mrs. García and some of Elkarrekin's spokespersons acted We can, which said, "we sighed through the diary. Then take some measures from the ergonomic report – also towards Mr Ruiz de Arbulo –: the stretching, the famous stretching. The report, which I do not know if it has been read, speaks of a number of measures. He says: "Ergonomic studies suggest that the response should cover a wide range of measures and not focus only on one aspect. They are all part of an indissoluble whole." All, so are the stretching, Mrs. Garcia. And then I was surprised because you have made a number of considerations, you called, or nuanced, such as "respecting the right of participation, which is essential", "the rights of detained persons should have been included in the operative part"... And I was saying, but has Elkarrekin Podemos tabled a complete amendment to this point? Because if you've introduced her, I haven't been transferred. I believe that is the way to incorporate what you intend to adopt in this House. And Mrs. Ubera said it's easier to make things right. Of course! He who does it can be wrong; he who does nothing is impossible to do things either right or wrong, he will never be wrong. And this counting on the workers, also perhaps the greatest novelty in this case, at this point, and it is nice to hear it, is that for the first time I see the defense of the rights of the Ertzaintza workers, who, well, we will qualify them, which seems that from EH Bildu they are different workers. He was telling me I read the lady counselor's inquiry. Well, I've read the lady counselor's inquiry, as you've read it, and I've read more things. I do not know whether you have read the ergonomics study, so you have said no, because the same has been true of the intervention you have made today on this issue, that on an education issue, that on any other topic with which you usually delight us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Elkarrekin We can. Garcia andrea? Mrs. Ubera? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u78	Mr. Zorrill, I don't know that we have to vote for what you've heard, but I don't know if you've been in another debate or if you've been replicated from your home and you haven't been able to give us a reasonable and easy answer. Look, Mr. Zorrill, it's a fact that we have differences around police models, but we agree to that, and that's agreed, and we'll vote together, you know, with the edgelines to get in the car, don't you think? [[Berber]] And the edge drivers need cars that can fit, right? That's the way it is, isn't it? That's how far we get there. And then it's curious what's happening with the budget. It seems as if it will happen soon, that the EAJO shall come down and be: The fault of removing a serum from a patient in the hospital will be because EH Collect hasn't protected his budget.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque Popular Groups, the Basque Socialists and the Eascan patriots, the middle-class correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u80	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. I interrupt the entire meeting until 15:15. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-nine. The meeting resumed at sixteen o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u81	Good evening, we'll follow the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "In the same way as the parliamentary policy of Podemos, the equality between women and men in all the Basque townships. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Ms. Arana, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. The politics at the municipal level is the closest to the everyday life of the citizenry, it is a space of political action, key to promote and generate tangible and concrete changes in the day-to-day life of people, so the local administrations, our municipalities, our municipalities, are an angular piece to build sustainable and egalitarian life models, life models where social justice is angular pillar. And that happens, necessarily, by eradicating the inequality of our municipalities. They are the closest institutions from which to think and manage the everyday commons, what as a community we need to enjoy lives worthy of being lived, and those that offer all the potential for the exercise of citizen participation. That is why in Elkarrekin it is very clear to us that it is important for Parliament and the Basque Government to make a strong commitment to promote, support and accompany the measures and policies that are being promoted from the municipalities. We are just two days away from forming the new municipal governments. Euskadi will have new people in the municipalities, new government programs, new challenges to develop in the municipalities of all territories over the next four years. Since the Basque Government, this time of relief and change can be faced without pretensions or illusions, acting as a mere spectator of the different institutional transitions, but it should be borne in mind that in the last four years the women's and feminist movement has redoubled its demands and proposals. In two consecutive historic strikes, women have unquestionably overflowed the streets of all the towns and cities of the whole of Euskadi. Therefore, the starting point and targets of new municipal governments and local equality policies cannot in any way be the same as in 2015. They must listen and echo what is being reflected and proposed from the academy, the organizations and the policies of women and feminists. The way in which people and cities have been organized is not neutral, nor is the way in which policies are developed. Most of them have historically been thought from the perspective of a universal subject, who traditionally manifests himself in a white, young, healthy man with a certain purchasing and cultural capacity, leaving the rest of the citizenship in the background. Planning from a single model entails not making visible and not recognizing all forms of life and the needs of the citizenry. The feminist movement and women, in a massive way, are claiming that it is time to put the sustainability of life at the centre, and thereby to explain and seek accommodation for the coverage and exercise of the rights of all. Building towns and cities from a feminist perspective is also to bet on the development of another more sustainable development model that, through the defence of the common good, has as its ultimate goal that people live better and in a more shared, diverse, co-responsible and rights-generating way. So in the face of a new stage of local government, rather than adopting a stance of mere spectators, we can face this institutional shift as a window of opportunity for these last four years of consolidation of feminisms and new political proposals to reflect in the next four years. That is why we need to get out of that comfort zone; we need to redouble our bets and efforts; we need to have political will, a firm commitment to the rights of half of our citizens, responsibility, and the leadership that the law assigns to the Basque Government. We, Elkarrekin We can, we bet for the second, a proactive Basque government and take advantage of the new municipal momentum to promote more and better policies in the next four years. Therefore, by implementing the competences assigned to it in the equality legislation, without breaking out of its role or invading municipal autonomy, good practices can be strengthened and can and must be innovated to provide the necessary support to the municipalities. Because progress towards equality at the local level must have new impulses, must give equal coverage to the whole territory of Euskadi and must seek more ambitious goals, and for this reason the action of the Basque Government is indispensable. Article 5 of the Equality Act provides that the Basque Government has, inter alia, the competence to "general planning and development of general rules and guidelines on the equality of women and men". The Emakunde Creation Act defines as an essential purpose of the Institute for Women the achievement of real and effective equality of men and women in all areas of political, economic, cultural and social life in the Basque Country. In this regard, article 9 of the Equality Act states that "it is the body responsible for the promotion, advice, planning and evaluation of policies for the equality of women and men within the Autonomous Community of Euskadi". Law 4/2005 on Equality of Women and Men establishes clear competences and functions for the different institutional levels. As we see, there are legal tools to ensure that the Basque Government's mandate is fulfilled with this initiative, and always within its competence. At least since IV. Equality Plan specific work lines have been mentioned to promote equality from the local level. Almost 14 years have passed and, if we take into account the data collected in the evaluation of the last Equality Plan, it is confirmed that a new impetus for equality policies is essential. We certainly value the work that is being done from the municipalities and networks, but if we want to move forward, these numbers cannot be denied. It seems to us that these data clearly show that there are weaknesses in equality policies at the local level, and, as I said earlier, the Basque Government should strengthen good practices, but also promote new measures and innovate to support and accompany the institutions closest to citizenship in the process of fulfilling the mandates of the regulation and with the commitment to equality and citizenship. And to accomplish this task, our parliamentary group has brought to debate a series of measures and after work, a lot of work and a lot of dialogue, we have once again achieved a unanimous agreement to improve equality policies, the lives of women and, ultimately, of the whole of society. That is why, in this initiative which we are going to adopt today, we urge the Basque Government to support the local entities of the Basque Autonomous Community to promote the precise instruments for achieving effective and real equality, such as the establishment in all municipalities of the technical body of equality or reference structures, as well as support and support programmes to municipalities for the elaboration of equality plans and municipal ordinances on equality. We also approve that from Parliament we make a positive assessment of the role of the municipalities in strengthening equality bodies and urge them to also have a direct dependence on the highest authority of each institution, as well as the appropriate resources to carry them out. We also call for the creation of women's councils or equality councils in the municipalities, as spaces to address relations between the institution and the citizenry, and, of course, for them to be with feminist and women's groups, as well as with interested persons. We also urge the Government to develop, together with Eudel, the general guidelines on these equality units, so that there is more or less uniformity, so that in all municipalities there is heterogeneity in structures, models and resources. We also urge the Basque Government to implement the various agreements adopted in this Parliament concerning the machist violence that have been and are still not being implemented; we also urge the Government, and the rest of the institutions, to strengthen those programmes to support victims of machist violence, in the specific areas of awareness-raising, prevention, care and protection, as well as to review and improve the protocols in order to provide prompt, efficient and comprehensive care. So it is only to be thanked for the tone, debate and consensus that all political forces have come to adopt this non-legislative proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Groups filed for corrections: Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u84	Yes, thank you. Good noon, everyone. It's a very important discussion that Podemos brings together to this parliamentary law, and even when we had the document of correction in our own hands, we discussed it in the group. It is very important that we bring here the consideration of the population of equality in the town class, and bring here the discussion about resources. It is also because we have a clear idea of most of the policies which are most close to the lives of these women, and have the greatest incest, because their management is given in the townships, because they have that responsibility. And besides, the themes which we have here discussed, who afterwards manages them in daily order? The council says so. And more than the council, I'd say, they're techniques of equality. There'll be benefits, for instance, now that the government has announced it, to make diagnostics around the city of dark sites. Who's gonna do that? There's a technique of equality. Or when a party process is opened in the village, when a circle of reflection is planned about equality, who will manage it? Or we're talking about women's houses, who's handling it? I mean, they're self-punciators of equality. And I think many of you will have a technique of equality around you, and you know what their work means. I have at least some friends who tell me that they have gone to learn everything, because it is their turn to advise them about language, because they have been taken to give them advice about the education of cities, to give them a view of the genus above different laws... And all this, in a sense, must be supplied with material or economic resources. And institutions are concerned to promote equality and end it with Matxism. And I think that we must determine this matter, and endeavour to make this proposal to-day, and besides, as has been said, in the working of this proposition, which we shall freely accept, we have attempted to do; to speak with precision of resources. Because what the law says is right, it's explained. Feminism has, moreover, gained access to institutions. And I would say that the same figure of the professors of equality had succeeded in a violent struggle with feminist movement, the feminist eiscal movement, and even after that, thanks to the work of the offering. If this had not been the case, the feminist movement, the feminist woman had not been behind, would not have been taken up in this way in which the municipal councils have been interested in developing feminists politics, with the resources we now possess, and with the level of discussion we now have. Then we can think and discuss how things are doing, whether we're doing enough or not, and we know that we have discussions there, but I think we all agree with the figure and its need, and I'd like to begin this first part of it. And while we are discussing this process of normalization in countries at the time when the forms of equality have been extended in the countries, but, as was still mentioned, it is not made in the same way, and, for example, when I was preparing a discussion of the point, I have been able to refer to the website of the Gipuzian Indulous Forduct, and it is established in this case as regards the land of Gipulia. It is a permanent structure, painted in pinks, and still sees it, and at least I have taken a surprise at the time of seeing so many whites, and this stable structure would be only a definite business of equality, a particular business of union, and a personal personality. And here we still see differences. This does not mean that no policy about equality is developing in these places, but I believe that these stable structures help in some way and direct a more stable policy. And if we look at this photograph, we should put today's proposition on value, because we want to try to expand it somehow. And, further, we must consider these roses, or the places around which they stand: peoples around the great cities. Often the country-field, those which are the smallest people, are excluded from such resources. Then, when we have spoken of the policy of equality, or of others, to develop the Pacta of the Women of the Villa, we ought to strengthen such structures even in the country. But it's still an achievement, we're on our way, and I think today's supposed to mean another step. And a little back historically, Mari Luz Esteban has published a book about the situation of the feminist movement in the Basque Country and feminist feminism, and he says, in a certain manner, that in 2003 year, he has created the first masters' schools of the Basque Country. And he says that these spaces have arisen from the dialogue between the technicians and feminist movement in certain townships of equality; that they are important spaces of power; that it is true that from 2003 there has not been so much time to see what kind of impact the owners may have, but I believe that anyone who has known a school of property around them, and who has had the opportunity to speak to women who participate in it, knows what pains and importance they have in these spaces. And we should also talk about women's homes, which is even more urgent. And we made a slight correction to the proposition, which we made, because we were so willing to give space to these spaceal conversations. The institutional space is doubtless indispensable, and the techniques of equality require technical resources and economic resources to accomplish their work, but besides that, it is very different from doing this job in isolation or in town, if there are some female associations. And in this sense we put on the table those spaces which may be called women's council, or whatever we please, but which are the medium between women, associations, associations, and institutions, which, as we believe, are the most agreeable of all the establishments and institutions that can be found in the streets. Then let these associations also be established in value, and be determined, not only to be consuls, but to give us tools in order to develop what really is determined there, because there is often tension between feminist movement and institution. And I think we need courage to power these spaces, to provide them with resources. In this sense, as Mrs. Arana said, the 8th of March or, I dare say, if we wish to carry all this policy to the institutions and conversation, we need space provided with means, we need those doctrines of equality which will be strong, which will have some protection, and will carry them to the execution of all the ideas we can have in mind with it. I therefore only wish to conclude, that to-day is another step, and also thanks to the business of the council and municipal administration, we have offered a space, and, in some measure, a confession to all these technicians, to those who are working in the town and to the town, and to those who are trying to cultivate feminism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Popular. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u86	The President, the chief physician, the congressman, good afternoon. Well, we're dealing with what equality is today in the town halls, and we must remember that, as mentioned here, they are the nearest institutions, and they must say a great deal about this subject. We must here also remember the law which we have established, the law of the equality of women and men, and how the jurisdictions and functions of each institution are determined in this law. From that block, we're supposed to say that the EukMOOK has precise functions or jurisdictions on this subject, and that he has to make rules and direct different criteria in the subject of equality. So also in this Law, in Article 7, the Functions are mentioned, that are to be developed, or to be developed by the Town Halls. Today we are dealing with the issue of equality at the municipal level, and, as has been said here, we are talking about the institutions closest to the citizens, institutions that obviously carry out actions that have to do with the achievement of real and effective equality. These are actions of different types and, as I said, all these actions are framed or within the framework of the Equality Act of 2005, which clearly sets out the different competences and functions that each of the three institutional levels has. In this regard, the Basque Government, in collaboration with Emakunde, is responsible for the overall planning, development of general equality standards and guidelines for the achievement of this real and effective equality. At the same time, Article 7 refers to the powers of local authorities. The Basque Government, as we all know, develops equality plans, which reflect in a coordinated and comprehensive way the lines of intervention and guidelines that should guide the activities of the public authorities and, in this regard, different measures are envisaged, with the corresponding funding. So, you know, "EunkMing" is a good idea of his plans, and it's a different line of measurements, and it's a necessary funding. In this regard, as I said, the municipalities are acting individually or through joint ventures, and will count on the technical assistance of the Basque Government for this purpose, as specified in the regulations. Udaletxeek ekintza desberdinak bideratu dizzakete, éta horretarako Eusko Jaurlaritzaren laguntza ezinbestekoa da. The aim is to ensure this practical and effective application of the right to equality, which is recognized in the legal texts. We believe that this initiative contributes to this. We may say from this great challenge, from this point of view, that it is a true equality, and we may say that it constructs this enterprise for this purpose. To this end, the townships have different ways, or different measures, and the object of this proposition is to strengthen all these undertakings. With regard to the agreement adopted, I have to say that, in the effort we have made to have sex with the various amendments and the original proposal, the requests of the People's Party have been included, and I therefore believe that, in this regard, the agreement, in our view, is more comprehensive in terms of some specific points that we raised in our entire amendment, as it may be that the necessary measures are collected to eradicate violence against women; that the Basque Government forwards the committed regulation it contains, as it said, these measures; that the Basque Government also gives support to the local entities of the Basque Autonomous Community to boost those instruments that are necessary for real and effective equality; and that programmes to support gender victims, in the areas of awareness-raising, prevention, care and protection, are strengthened. And also another issue, to which the proposer has also referred, and to which we repeatedly refer in this Parliament, because it has been many, that the Basque Government should comply, and I take it that Mr Lehendakari is here, that they should make an effort to comply with the agreements adopted in this House during this parliamentary term. On that side, with good proposal. or we agree with the agreed proposal. Here, on the one hand, we ask you to send the New Year's New Year's Bill to the parliamental Bill of Law, a precise project installed in educating, helping the town councils, to strengthen different programs, and finally to complete the agreements agreed on in the legislature. That's why we finally agreed with the half-signed correction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u87	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u88	Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you, President. Indeed, the Basque Equality Act was a pioneer at the time, it was a legal text that became a reference for many autonomous communities, but, moreover, today in Euskadi we are on the verge of a modification that makes it more complete, more ambitious and that touches aspects that at the time either did not touch, or were not so present, or at least the feminist struggle had not yet pursued them in such a clear way, because there were other achievements to achieve. The Equality Act – ours and that of other places – has a general character, to the extent that it affects the legal system in particular. It also has an expansive effect on the whole system, which seems to have been cut across the board, so that effective equality can reach all its corners. Ours, that of all, is born in an autonomous community, in a parliament like this, but it is true that the municipalities are also obliged to comply with it. Each of the legal rules that we adopt in this House end up affecting the municipalities in one way or another, but it is also true that not all of them are the same, not all of them are the same size, not all of them have the same resources, and that is where the Basque Government should be and where it should be to assist in their implementation and, of course, we will ensure that this House does so. What Elkarrekin proposes to us today We can share, in the philosophy and in the explanation put to us by Mrs Arana, because we share in the Socialist Group that there are still shortcomings, that there are still non-compliances and that it is true that many steps have been taken, but that we should look at all that remains to be achieved. We want to continue working, seeking as a final objective effective and real equality, always from the point of view of competition, understanding, on the one hand, the role of the municipalities and the Municipal Law, which endorses and recognizes their own competences, and, on the other hand, the specificities that each one has, as I have said before, of size, budget and real possibilities of carrying out this obligation. That is the role of Eudel and the Members, whom we have been able to recognise in the amendment, and which is also able to recognise the work they have, which we cannot forget, nor look elsewhere, thinking that we in Parliament can do everything. We value the agreement from the Socialist Group, a unanimity of very different political parties, which we started from very distant points on some occasions, but which from the generosity of the different spokesmen we have been able to reach consensus. We agree on the need to continue working, on the importance of the law and, above all, on the demand for its implementation. We think it is good to work on amending this text to make it more ambitious, but to keep looking at what remains to be done. This initiative recognizes the work in the interests of equality carried out by the municipalities, recognizing their different possibilities and, therefore, we believe that the compromise amendment reached is a good agreement because it recognizes this work, that of the municipalities; it talks about budgets, because in the end unfunded legislation is not yet possible; it recognizes the Equality Plan and what it entails, and the need to strengthen programmes to support victims of gender-based violence. Therefore, this initiative, we understand, deepens the challenges to which we have committed ourselves and pushes us to be vigilant and to continue working towards the shared goal. In the institutions in which we are all political parties here, I believe we share the real objective of achieving an effective reality and we must all be vigilant of one another for this to happen. Nothing more; thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u89	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, all the members of the legislature have a good evening. We are discussing the law of equality between women and men in all the Basque townships. As the members of the legislature who participated in my presence, we have obtained a medium, which will be unanimously accepted. It is an extensive middle-class middle-class, always kept stocked, because of a general interest in the beauty of the Basques and of the men's equality in the law of 2005, and because they are technical, economic, or social conditions, which ought to be carried on in a manner throughout the whole country of the Basque Autonomia, program or service, in order to offer their jurisdiction. The first object admitted by the municipal law is to strengthen the autonomy of the townships, in order to obtain a formal confession of the autonomy of the townships, and to ensure that the municipal councils will be able to arrange and manage the affairs of the place under their responsibilities. Still, it's better than good...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u91	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u92	...that the principle of equality, independently of mere will, requires the impulse of a general rule of law without municipal and foru-warlike laws. Thus the principle of equality in 2005, which has been more than once distinguished, must be acknowledged to be an indispensable tool for developing and fostering the policy of equality in Eukadin. And the one, the municipalognomy, and the other, declared and established by the law of equality, has, in some measure, been a prize for the harvest. This isn't new. It's been precursors for years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u93	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Historically, as I have said, there has been coordinated work between these entities, both Emakunde and Eudel, within the framework of the different equality plans. Since the adoption of the Basque Equality Act in 2005, an agreement has been signed between Eudel and Emakunde, which carries out collaborative work at the municipal level, so that key projects are financed in relation to equality policies, and countless materials and guides have been developed to make progress in this area. This agreement has enabled the creation of the Network of Basque Municipalities for Equality and against Violence against Women, Berdinsarea, which aims to promote, strengthen, coordinate and evaluate programmes and services run by local administrations for equality and against violence against women. The aim of this network is to improve the local response in this area, and that it serves as a link between these and other supra-municipal entities. This same legislature has received in all municipalities the guide to integrate the gender perspective in the new municipal legislation. Developed within the framework of the network of municipal technicians and technicians, Berdinsarea, Eudel and Emakunde have made available to the Basque municipalities a new didactic and procedural tool to incorporate the previous gender impact assessments from the outset in the design, elaboration and production of all that new legislation and some administrative acts promoted by local governments. It has made significant progress in its implementation in local government procedures, as it offers articulated recommendations for each phase of the process. It is also a justice to confess, on the side of the local administration, that this law, which limited the jurisdictions of the townships of the townships of equality, still retained this jurisdiction, by keeping work and investment or investment. The landlady confessed to him about the stable structure, confessing to the professors of equality, and I share this confession. But it is true, that in many councils it was impossible to set that structure in motion, we have talked about it all these days, and I would like to make confession of the work the mayors have done in those councils, both in councils where that structure has not been, and in which both the councilans and municipal workers have done it, in devotion and commitment, in order to carry the municipal policy forward. And though they have had a greater number of laws against them, yet they have been able to maintain it. Several councils, too, have been able to accept their own plan of equality in this legislation. So I'd like to confess to these councils for me as well. We can neither forget nor forget the Relational Committee of Women and Men's Equality of Women in this Extra, The organizational organizational organization of the Eucomitant worldal activities in the New World to co-ordination of the European and female and men's equality, in order to develop in co-ordinate organs, which the policies and programmes of the community, in order to co-operate in the equality of women and men, co-ordinately co-ordinately. that is to say, there must always be an association between different institutions and institutions. All these means of coordination are a centre between the townships, a light and efficient spot, which is the purpose of pushing, strengthening, co-ordination, co-ordination, and evading the programmes and services which are managed against equality and violence towards women. To do this, you must specify a combined criteria for activity and evaluation and that task must be included in an attendee of all activities. The action of the place is to be compared with all the ranks of the public, and the connection between other institutions beyond the townships is likewise to be found. As far as the content of the agreement is concerned, I am not going to extend further, since both Mrs Arana and Mrs Garrido have read the points we have had. We understand that it perfectly reflects both the spirit of the original initiative and the questions of competence and coordinated and consensual work between different institutions that I raised at the beginning of my speech in Basque. It is essential that local administrational regulations should advance on the road in the most appropriate manner. That's clear. Even if it be clear, that they often find difficulties, especially in the small councils, and are exposed to numerous inability, although the engagement and the will of equality are undeniable. The work of these lasts I sometimes see more particularly what is to be remarked and praised. but these particular peculiarities or privations of place-administration, and the most suitable formulas for them, are necessary. Bitartean, aipaturiko laguntza edo ekintza horiek bullzatzen jarraitzen da instituzio edo erakunde ezberdinetik. Exebarrieta andreak baita era aipatu du, ezta? Gaur egun zabalik dago. It seems to me that until 6 July the call for aid on inclusive urban planning, the aim of which is to incorporate a gender perspective into municipal planning and urban planning and to guarantee, inter alia, equal access for men and women to the various resources and equipment of the territory or to increase the safety of women in public spaces. This morning was also the day Budgets with a gender focus, a firm bet And for the future, we are faced with very interesting challenges. We mentioned in point 4 of the transaction the reference to the autonomous chamber of "the normative proposal committed to regulating the necessary measures to eradicate violence against women", which will eventually develop as the amendment of the current Equality Act, and the processing of this amendment will again give rise to a very interesting debate where we hope to receive different contributions, not only at institutional level, but also from this associative movement in general, the feminist movement, women's associations, which we hope will lead in a consensual way to new impulses in the field of equality, which affect the whole of Euskadi, in order to achieve real and effective equality between women and men. And this being so, I wish to express my gratitude to the representatives of our teams, for their honesty and fusibility. More and more things unite us in the world of equality, which, independently of many joys, fills me with hopes, starting from so different beginnings, by which we share the end, and by opening this message into society in a similar manner. And that's what society needs to receive a joint message for equality. That's all. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Is anyone else involved? No. [[Berber]] The discussion is over and we're going to vote together Podemos, Euskal Popula, Basque Socialists, EH Collectors and Eubertarians have signed the media. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u96	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Provide the other proposal as the parliamentary team has made, in order to ensure a professional career in the EIB news. Discipline and final resolution. On the turn of the proposed team, Mrs. Aguirre, representative of the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u97	Good afternoon, Madam President. Good afternoon, comrades, comrades. In these remarks, I think, that the preservation of the form is important, because it shows that the form of the content is beautiful, suitable, and that the work done with love, or at least with a little chalk. Today, I'm sorry, but I'm leaving the form aside, and I'm going to start with the saco Paco. In reality, having to bring this subject back here because it is the result of a lack of respect. Because it is a want of respect for the former time that the institutions of the legislature do not obey the orders of this legislature. This is another example. On the 31st of May last year, two weeks ago, it was admitted here to give EITBri two months' termes to EITB, in order that the post of the place should be carried out in a state of choice, and that the professional career should be executed only by professional criteria, and present the exact proposal of development in this parliament. In other words: EIB was asked to make an objective, public, and transparent calm in the opportunities of public employments, to prevent the management from choosing them by finger, because it may have a direct influence on EIB's independence. In order to do this, EIB was asked to agree with the union of the working people, and to place the arrangement in three months' time. Well, Egibar is on duty, but we've had that famous patience and we've been waiting. First of all, you know, you know, the full-level report that you're sending. He arrived last year in November 30, and the plan was going well in EIB. He said they were playing "prestate." And then he said that negotiations would have to be started with union reps about six or seven months ago. And we don't know that much more about it. It's over. Fuit There was a couple of months before EITB planned and three more months to put it in the editorship. It's been a year since that decision took place, and we've been waiting for it all the same. We're patient. We waited. So far we've been waiting to ask the staff. We've talked to the president of the staff committee and the two union unions in EIB, representatives of LA and LA unions, in order to let EIB run as high as possible for a professional career as possible. And the workers' representatives have explained what the company has done in a year. First, he pulled out of the drawer a scheme of checklisting professionals, almost 20 years old, that would serve to ensure the independence of the news. A plan in which possible occupational classifications by families of and workers of EITB appear, such as, for example, "professionals of lighting". And, let's see, maybe we don't explain ourselves well when we pass the non-law proposal. The point is not that we believe that ETB, for example, illuminates the section intended for Arantxa Tapia better than other sections, so, to favor it, and that this may affect EITB's information independence. No, no, It's something else we're talking about. In that non-law proposal that we passed we referred to how the editor is chosen, the professional who decides today, tomorrow and past also, that it is news what she says, everything that Mrs Arantxa Tapia says or does; that makes us feel, moreover, as a certain concern, if something had happened to her, when we do not see her in the news. And that's what we're talking about when we talk about if there's no professional career with guarantees in EITB, because it's very difficult for the news to be independent because the people who run them are chosen to their finger. And I don't question their professionalism at all, but their independence, because their positions depend directly on who they have appointed them because they take you away. We take our hands to our heads when we find out that in Osakidetza some professionals are favored over others. And in Osakidetza everyone is also professional, fortunately. It is not their professionalism that we question; what we denounce is that the posts are broken down by finger, as is the case in EITB. Osakidetzan ere, jakina, denak dira profesionalak –ez dugu hori zalantza ipintzen –, euren postuak bath atzamarrez banatzen dira, EITBn bezala. The syndicate representatives of EIB have explained to us that the interest of news has been asked to choose the authorities according to an objective and transparent relief. And what did the management say? Well, no. This is the proposal of the direction, which has been entrusted to the unions of the EIB, though we have not yet heard of it in the legislature; and then the management itself, instead of representative of the workmen, will choose only persons who are thought fit for this post, according to the tranquillity which no one will know. That is to say, as before, the head of the first neck: in arbitrary mode, and with finger; without transparency; without difference of choice; without transparent calm. The unions, of course, said no. There is no agreement, no agreement. How will the management be if it wants to continue the usual way? The equality of transparency and choice is a guarantee of the independence of a public media media. That's the first measure the EIB manager has to take if he wants to be a public source of quality and not a communication of the government. The local professionals must be free, independent, their professional career cannot be dependent on the trust of the direction. Their capacity to do this must be considered and, above all, the distinction of choice must be secured. It may be a concept of trust, but it is not always connected with obedience. That's what happens in EIB. Anyone who says "no" has no protection, perhaps even that of the Council Reducation, perhaps the "moral protection," but that's all. Anyone who says no knows what he's got. It's over. And so it is because there are no professional careers in EIB, because all cares are divided by fingers. And that's what we're asking you to do today, what we're asking you to do again after a year. If we want public quality TV, we need to be independent. To do this, you have to take specific measures like a professional career. That's why those who decide the diary of the ETV news are to be chosen with transparency and skill, so that the criteria should only be professional, and not based on personal trust. If we want a balanced treatment of the news, we need firms, precise measures, and that's one of them. And there are other measures, that's not the only measure, if it's better. In the ETV check, for example, the provisionality is nearly 40 percent. There wasn't even a bag of work until about four years ago, and the contractations themselves were made by fingers. Most of the apps had until recently had an artistic contract, which wasn't part of the planet. And many of the responsible ones are also bourgeoisists, workers out of the contract of labor, who are excluded from the convent. These conditions of work are extremely difficult to make a communication independent. "Poster and Remove" dynamics perverse Eta badakigu hala ere independent of her zaila, because it is difficult to break with inertia of years, with self-censorship, but the promotion of a professional career based on merit and equal opportunities is already a very important achievement. And it is also very difficult for an information program, which are the ones that mostly create public opinion, to be independent if it is entrusted to producers who in most cases have EITB as their sole customer. How is that program going to be independent? Why is this program not done with home professionals who are equally qualified as those of the producers? Why if EITB journalists can't give their opinion on the news, can they give it to the producers instead? Why has EITB privatized or left all its non-daily information programs in the hands of producers? What control measures are in place to ensure the independence of these programmes? How can producers' professionals protect their independence? Several questions and one way of TV. A model that has been exhausted and lost in prestige, a model not suitable for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u99	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Good afternoon, everyone. I'll be very brief, actually. With this initiative, which we are discussing here today, we have come to certify once again the systematic failure of the EITB Directorate to comply with the mandates of this Parliament. It is certain that if other matters were to be dealt with, those who today hide or hide in speeches and dilatory initiatives, their null intention to change absolutely nothing in EITB, would either take their hands or make many gestures of indignation because the management of public television ignores the mandate of a Parliament. And I do not know what it is about this initiative, as I will now explain, in the same way that I do not know the Committee on Control, constantly, when it comes at the request of the opposition groups and is unable, and is unable, to carry out a minimally acceptable accountability. We all know, we've all seen it, and all of us here are perfectly aware of why it happens, so we're going to avoid cynicism disguised as good words. Today's initiative, which we support through the compromise amendment we have agreed on, is very clear because it shows that the Director General did not do what this Parliament asked her to do in May 2018, that is, a year ago. We then approved in this plenary a PNL that urged the Director General that, within two months, i.e., at the end of July 2018, Mrs Agirre has already commented, but I think it is good to remember again, in case someone has earplugs, to present a concrete proposal for the promotion and development of the professional career in EITB. Did he? No, no, The Director-General, after a year, has not submitted any proposals. It's a classic of our lady director of EITB. Of course, it must also be said that as far as the second point of that GNP is concerned, he was asked to work in cooperation with the trade union representation of the workers and in a spirit of consensus in drawing up the proposal, which has not been completed and has been delayed for a year. I mean, for starters, he hasn't even started meeting, and it's been a year. Quite simple, therefore, the director of EITB, once again, does not fulfil a parliamentary mandate. And there's nothing going on here. It's absolutely nothing. The truth is, we're not surprised anymore. We're pretty used to it. Similarly, nothing happens when I appear in the Committee on Control, as I have told you many times, and this is not the first time I have said it, and I fail to answer questions from our parliamentary group. We are all quite old, the ones who are here, to know where things are going. No compliance with GNP, no accountability, no comprehensive reform. And I am not outraged now by saying what we all know, please, because I am not saying more than truths – as is usually said – as fists, that some had no intention of doing anything for EITB to reform and that is more than obvious. The reason? Well simple: they are very happy with what EITB is, with what it does and with what it represents. It would be good if they said it loud and clear so that even the professionals of the Basque entity and citizenship could hear them say it sometime and know what the position of each one is. We are committed to fighting for an EITB closer to European public television standards worthy of that name. Others are more of chaste and recurring models in the Spanish panorama and in our commitment to get a closer, plural, egalitarian EITB, we will continue to work inside and outside the presentation. And as Mrs Agirre said, today we again approve by a majority that the Director-General of EITB will be happy to fulfil the mandate of this Parliament on 31 May 2018. And also that, if it is for good, come in October to appear in the committee, to present it to us, and I hope – I put it here by itself – that you answer us to the questions we ask you there. Now we'll see what and when you submit it, because it's a lot of time to report on a page per month, which means we have 12 pages and that's where everything is collected. And nothing, we'll wait to see if we have it, they say there's no two without three. I do not know whether the director of EITB will want us to come here a third time to ask her once and for all to fulfil the mandate that this Parliament is demanding of her, asking for the second time. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u100	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u101	Yes, thank you, Madam President. I will try to be brief because it is neither the first, nor the second, nor the third, nor the fourth time that we have dealt with this issue, either in a monitoring committee, as Mrs Arana has mentioned, or in the presentation session, where she has been dealt with on more than one occasion or in the debate on these non-law proposals. What the Socialist Group thinks about career has been said on many occasions, but this time I will try to sum up: it is the professionals of the body who must be responsible for ensuring in every information, every approach, every news, every approach to content, who must uphold the principles governing the EITB Law concerning plurality and neutrality. It is the EITB Directorate that has to assert that this professional work is and will be carried out with full guarantees. And it is this Parliament that must ensure that both professionals and management perform both functions. These are each one's duties in each area. But, in case there is any doubt, I will say this, as I have said on other occasions, for the Socialist Group we believe that today there are no circumstances in which the professionals, nor the management, but above all the former, are able to carry out their duties. And they do not because, in our opinion, we are still taking refuge in a regulation and a habit, when it comes to work, that does not meet the criteria required to develop that work and that professional career development on the basis of the criteria, already cited on many occasions, of professionalism, transparency and equal opportunities. That is what we have always thought, what we think and what we are defending in comprehensive reform. I said this on the previous occasion when we had the opportunity to discuss a non-legislative proposal: we can do and require management to take steps in collaboration with the representatives of workers in EITB, but we understand that what should actually make career development work are duties that are incumbent on us and that we are being dealt with in EITB's reform paper. In fact, this is the place where trade union representatives have told us what the model they have and have informed us of the problems they see and the obstacles to career development. LAB said it, ELA said it, Workers' Commissions said it and UGT also said it. They've said what the obstacles are and nobody, none of the people here don't know what they are. And they know, too, that some of them are related to the way this management works, most of them, but that many others are our responsibility to enable them through making use and making effective – because we have been waiting for a long time – what are the reform proposals for that new Basque public broadcaster we want. So, we're not going to avoid any responsibility. We believe that management, if it wants, can take steps in favour of this career, can go to work with workers' representatives, but we also know what duties each of us has in other areas. And we are already delaying in finalizing the conclusions and putting ourselves to work and putting in black and white what is that model of objective, plural, neutral public television that forms, informs and makes a critical society by the media of Basque public television, radio and Basque public television. I say this because everyone will have to apply the story in each area. We are going to apply it to all of us, because we in the paper know that we have always had that union representation to tell us what was the best way to act to guarantee the professional career, and so we ask, and that when we had to take steps also in the board of directors to say that we did not like the way we currently function in the appointment of the information officers, and in the assumption of responsibilities, we have done so. We will speak for the people who are on our behalf on that board of directors. We have waited for the reform, we have voted nothing on the organizational chart in favour, except for the issue of ETB-1. In both the presentation and the board of directors, we have maintained the same consistency. We do not like that way of working, we understand that it is not transparent and it does not work according to equal opportunities, but we believe that the way to change it has much to do with the work that Parliament's policies and policies have to do: putting black on white what our model of Basque public television for the future is. And that's where we're going to have to go, I hope in a very short time. We have reached unanimity, I do not know whether with the same interpretation that we are being brought with us a report of what has been done so far – what has been done, moreover, has been announced a little bit by Mrs Agirre – but, I insist, that will not be true for the development of the professional career of EITB professionals. It has to change the model; it has to change the model of management; it has to change the model of the board of directors, and for that we have to face the reform once and for all and make the regulatory changes that are coming. And then, perhaps in the meantime, I do not know whether we will dare in some things that depend on the board of directors to take action, because if we really agree to eliminate certain issues, such as the system of managers which, in fact, poses or poses a very large obstacle to the development of the professional career, we could do something before the reform. But as I really understand that, in addition to that, the development of the professional career has much to do with the public service that we want to provide to Basque society through our audiovisual media, I think that what we have to do, as Mrs Arana said, is to hurry and, once we are given the latest studies on the survey, the EITB workers, who we have all made up by extending the questions that were going to be asked, to give a short time to tell what model we really believe groups in this Parliament that allows Basque public radio and television to meet the criteria that must serve Basque society, that are in this law and that have emerged with the passing of time. We must better serve Basque society from the functions it has to perform and do so with greater neutrality, independence and transparency. And the means and regulatory reforms must be put in place to make that possible. And then, then, it will have to be agreed if we really all have so clear where the problem is so that the professional career does not develop. I have no doubt that, when we put the models and the regulatory reforms, in particular the roles of management in this area, we will all agree to remove all the obstacles to the development of the professional career. I am convinced, at least in view of the interest, and above all the communion of ideas that exist and the unanimity in this area, that we will agree on this at least shortly. I hope, like Mrs Arana, that by September we can put forward our proposals for reform and regulatory changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u103	Yes, good afternoon, everyone. Good evening, ma'am, chief of departments, all members of the legislature. By this time, in this Chamber, some of you may be sure to think about how we've agreed to this. Besides, we're in despair with one voice, although PP didn't sign a medium, and how it's possible. And I, too, must say I'm surprised, I'm surprised at the performance we've seen here. Because, I don't know, sometimes I don't know what it's like, some people need their protagonism. I don't know what it is, but I really don't understand it. The middle term signed today says that the Parliament demands the direction "to send a detailed report to the parliamentary teams as soon as possible." This report will receive the measures taken by the EIB Manager to take on the measures taken at Nicographic, which have been agreed with the syndicate representatives of the local employees, to ensure the independence and plurality of the news and to promote the professional career of the editors, and to promote the performance of these measures as well as the results obtained by the legislature in another legal form. And that's the way it is here, and then we ask them to appear on the October committee to report to us. And indeed, on 31 May 2018, a year ago, little more, was adopted, a proposal was agreed in plenary that in two months they were asked to present "a concrete proposal for the promotion and development of the professional career" and that, in addition, it should be elaborated "in collaboration with the trade union representation of workers in a spirit of consensus". And that, in addition, that agreement was implemented in three months. Once that deadline has expired and already in the new session, on October 19th of last year, 2018, EH Bilduk sartu zuen beste initiatiba bat, hau, gaur eztabaidatzen ari garanena, hain zuzen ere. Eta gero, azaroan, Report on compliance with GNP Agirre andreak esan duen moduan, ba zuzendaritzak aipamena egiten zuen honen betetze-mailaren inguruan, eta honela zioen: "EITB is addressing the preparation of a concrete proposal for the promotion and development of the professional career", expressed in the PNL that had been approved, "considering also the aspects" of developing it in "collaboration with the union representation" of workers, etc., etc. And he said that the necessary time frame, if this negotiating process and this shared work process were to be followed, should be extended. And since then, since October, which Mrs Agirre presented herself with the proposal that we have here today, it seems that it is so extremely important and so serious the lack of compliance with those two initial months, for it is coming today, in June. Meanwhile E cualquier caso is at work, and the directors are at work, and they're making a plan. That's why we agreed to this. For what is required here is to be brought here, and we knew there must be something to bring. And that's why we agreed to this, and we signed the media. They're working, as I said, and they're things that I've been introduced to the committee, the degree of agreement is quite high, as I know. Mrs. Aguirre says no, but as far as I know, we'll see it when we get the report and we'll have a chance to discuss it at the EIB Committee. Some of the crews are moving. And it's true, and I'm going to tie it here, as Mrs. Rome says, we're inside a pony and we're working. And I'd say we're doing a good job. The process is very complex, and we have a paradigm. The EIB paradigm is part of the '80s, and we all agree that we have to change, and that's why we're working on it, and we've done so many things, and Mrs. Aguirre, you know, as well as I do. Many things have been done. There's been a sociometer. For some of the things that have come out there, some of them have been amazing to some people, and others to others; but here they are, objectively, there they are. We've also worked with sectors and associations, now workers, things working with the worker. Then to bring this here today, out of power and, in this tone, the tone you've used, really, for me, is incomprehensible. I, on my way to Parliament, have had the most of two things to do. One was EITB, and another was Human Rights. And just last week, the harvest came up. Mrs. Aguirre, really, even if she's an intern, your perspective doesn't get very successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. A team that hasn't run any corrections, the Basque Popular. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is that one does not cease to be surprised in this Parliament because when one sees that there is an amendment signed and then sees these interventions and, in addition, part of the interventions in which performance remake is talked about I, in fact, had not tabled an amendment. 'Cause Mrs. Agire was talking about dressing up. And he was talking about the remake remakes. And look, Mrs Oregi, I won't be the one to defend Parliamentarians in Bildu, but, come on, the tone has been soft, the tone has been soft, because when you present an initiative that comes out approved and a year later you have to resubmit it "We hope that this time, as the groups supporting the Government have signed the amendment, although I don't know why they signed it, the truth is that I don't understand it," as it may be, and we don't have to bring it back. If the director of EITB were here, she would tell us that the Law on the Creation of the Entity and the EITB style book are collected, as principles, the plurality and objectivity of the information. I bet you what you want me to say because that's what you always tell us, that's what you always tell us. And it is true: in the Law on the Establishment of the Entity, specifically in its article 3, objectivity, veracity, impartiality in information and the distinction between information and opinion are reflected as principles. But one thing, one thing, is that it appears in the Law on the Creation of the Entity and another very different is that it is not enough with which it appears in the law, it is that it must also be applied and it must be ensured that the proper conditions are given for it to be applied. And that's no longer so clear, even though they're trying to say it, to substantiate it, and to tell us that our teleberris And in that, which is what we are debating here today, objectivity, impartiality, have a lot to do with career. And as I said in this House, also a year ago, with regard to professionals, also in the preamble to the Statute of Drafting of Basque Public Television, by Euskal Irrati Telebista and its subsidiaries, this is reflected, the need for independent information is reflected. And what we are debating again today, not out of pleasure, I repeat, but because it has not been fulfilled, is important to ensure that independence. It is necessary for EITB professionals to be recognized for their professional career because, as was said here at the time, the professional career cannot begin and end on the same day. It is important to promote EITB's professional career, because that is to promote the independence of the environment, not to say that they are the most seen. And we can consider it relevant that some charges, such as the general management of the group, the direction of television and radio, are charges of trust. Until then, we can agree. But that any position that determines or carries with it a minimum of responsibility in what information is given in ETB, that any one of those is chosen by finger, that already seems excessive to us. And it's that currently those who run the news, those who select the news line, the news chiefs, the editors, the section chiefs... All of them, all of them, are trusted charges. As Mrs Oregi said, at the moment they will be chosen from among people of EITB, yes, from professionals of EITB, there are and many, yes, but chosen by finger, as has been said here. And when one chooses a finger, one eliminates professional career and transparency and equal opportunities, which do not exist, because there are other criteria. And also, as has been said here, as has been said at the time, to put your finger on it means that they can take your finger off as well, and that will undoubtedly influence independence when drawing up information. And independence is essential in a public environment. And not because in the EITB Style Book And all these questions, it is that those who have spoken before me have said that we have already debated them in this House, that we have already proposed it in this House, and it is true that things may not be done overnight, but, man, they take so long! And we have pointed out, and we want to reiterate it here today, that this is an issue that must be parallel to the presentation. What cannot be is that we create a paper for the reform of EITB – which we proposed it ourselves – but that means that any EITB issue cannot be discussed, that is to say, that it is left out. Because then, for future legislatures, what I recommend to all groups is, listen, you believe a paper and that issue is no longer brought up any more. On any subject, they create a presentation of different topics and from that moment on, because I don't know what we're going to talk about in the plenary, birds and flowers, because we're going to create presentations of all the topics and we can't debate anymore. I believe that it should go hand in hand with the paper and I believe that EITB's professional development is something that, apart from being treated and discussed in the paper as well, I believe that action should be taken by EITB's management already, because it must be based, as I said, on merits and not on enjoying at any given moment the confidence of the management, because that confidence, in many cases, can be linked to submission, and that is contrary to independence. Because it is necessary that whoever is in charge of fixing the information line, who decides what is news and what is news, who decides, in short, where is news going, for example, in the Teleberri Mordor We have said on many occasions that that would not happen if independence were guaranteed in EITB and career development, as we say, is related to that independence. It must be the professional criteria that determine the information and not the advertising of a government or, as I said, the defense of a concrete political position, be this more specific, as is the defense of the government of turn, be more general, as is the defense of nationalism. As I said, what is requested here – and that is why we had not tabled amendments, because we were going to vote yes – was requested in May last year. As I say, I hope that this time, which seems, I do not know why, after listening to the speeches, the parties that support the government – especially yours, Mrs Oregi – are going to approve it, because to see if it does this time. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u106	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing the answers, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u107	First of all, thank you all who have protected us. Mrs. Romero, you're right, we're working on a reform integration team in this sense, but there are certain measures that can't wait, and this is one of them. For it is necessary, on the one hand, and on the other because it is long-term measures, and must begin with so much speed, though afterwards it is to work in this direction in the country. But time is passing, and we're beginning to be patient. Because it is not acceptable that the ETB Directorate does not fulfil a mandate from this Parliament, and this is not the first time it has happened, moreover: it has also happened on other occasions. Nor is it acceptable for members of the Directorate of ETB to say, consider and say publicly that the greatest danger to EITB is precisely this Parliament, from which Basque public television is also broadcast. Mrs. Oregi, they're working on the unions for a year in the work. "I don't know. I just asked you one question. Have you spoken to the union reps to prepare this law? Dogma, me? "Dime de lo que presumes y terre de lo que carees." That's all. And whether I'm right or not, I don't know, but you've given me the right to sign this medium, because this medium admits that there's no independence at EIB and that the EIB Manager has not kept his word, that he has not fulfilled the commission he's asked of him or did to him, and that's what you say when you sign that middle term. So I don't know whether I have a reason or not, but you've given it to me. And we're losing patience. You said impossible. I'm a football symil today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Together, Poedemus. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u109	Well, I'm going to be brief because I think it's all more than said, but this debate and the EITB situation once again sees blindness and deafness on the part of the PNV and its CEO of EITB. May today, June 13, 2019, continue to allow the head of news, section heads, editors, etc., etc., not to be covered with transparency, equal opportunities and only according to objective and professional criteria is not to be received. We continued with the "toe", as in prehistory, which was all toe, in the Middle Ages. You talk about performance performance sketch See week sketch And I don't know about you, but reaching an agreement, from my point of view, doesn't mean not being able to say what one thinks, as long as you stick to the truths. I understand that you do not like the brown that you have had to defend Mrs Iturbe by active and passive, I understand that I understand that you are tired, but from that you do not want us to be able to talk and debate and say that we are tired, as Mrs Agirre said, that it is not being fulfilled, either by active or passive, with the mandates of Parliament, because the Director General of EITB, because, in terms of youth, "passes everything", because you... You know they dilate time like gum. A year, Mrs. Oregi. And every time he shows up, he avoids answering questions, no GNP, no accounts, nothing. And you're talking about the truth? The truth is that the Director-General, we repeat, once again, in case we have earplugs, the Director-General of EITB does not fulfil Parliament's mandate. A year has passed, Mrs Oregi. We have already said it before and I say it again: we will continue to work inside and outside the paper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Basque Socialists. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u111	Thank you, President. If you'll excuse me from the seat. Only to reiterate that we have adopted this today and we hope that it will be complied with, sincerely, but leadership is not an issue that we can compel to do so. What we parliamentarians can do is get to work as quickly as possible and vote on the reforms that are necessary so that management does not have the chance to continue to act on the criteria that it is now working on. We have the solutions, others have another model, but we know that that is the definitive solution, which is the normative change and the reform of EITB. Now, that is what Mrs Llanos said earlier, the parties that support the Government, which support the Government but not the leadership of EITB, wanted to clarify. And in that regard there are parties that may be in the Government but do not support such management, but there is no way to fulfil or enforce those mandates, there is no way to enforce those mandates. Not even the reprobations. There is one thing that is in our hands, which is comprehensive reform, and that we must do as soon as possible, at least before this parliamentary term is over, I hope so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u113	Good afternoon, again. Sometimes it seems that in this rostrum saying anything is free. And of course, things are said that are valuations, that are judgments of value, and there are also those here who go out to the rostrum, stand up as judges, judge, condemn, and end. I do not agree at all with this way of working, and even less so when we have opened up a space of debate and work in common, where we are working with loyalty, with our differences, and which we have gradually been filing over these two years, because we started in a rather complicated way, I would say, and yet we have been taking steps and we are moving towards that reform that we all want, or that we all want in this case, that we are all women who defend it. And yet, we went out here today to draw a yellow card. What's up, Mrs. Agirre? When we started with the paper, after the paper was already made, you gave a press conference at which you announced that you were drafting a law. What's going on? Is it time to do things the way you want? Passing the deal? Moving on from work? Or aren't the jobs going where they want to go? The objective results of the work and the agreements that are being reached do not go where you want them to go, so should we look for another way? What's going on? That things cannot be stopped and that subjects must be made and that issues must be adopted in parallel with the presentation? Of course. Obviously. EITB lifts the blind every day – and you know it better than I do – and does your job professionally. From here my recognition to everyone and all the professionals in the middle. The other day, without going any further, on Monday in the Committee on Control, we adopted two GNPs unanimously on issues where there is no problem that, in parallel with that presentation, we are working, but today we are not discussing a substantive issue, because we have already discussed it last year, and we have it in the paper as well in the work. The proposal for a law today has two points: one, that they bring us a report, that they bring it to us; and two, that the director appear. In order to appeal to the director, it is not necessary to make a non-legislative proposal, any of the parliamentarians in this House can make the request and come. Some clarifications for some of the things that have been said here and that I find it serious to say in this rostrum. One, "on your finger, you pick your finger, you grab people on your finger, you put them on, you take them off..." No, no, There are posts, that we can think about changing it and doing it in another way, because it is legitimate to think about changing it, but they are posts that are of free designation. That's not finger free designation free designation finger free designation More things are said here with all the hard face...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u114	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u115	That the director is set up by the PNV. It's a lie, it's okay! It's a lie. The director is set up by Parliament, and so is the board of directors, and it is the responsibility of this Parliament. Now, if every time we bring an initiative here, we want to turn it into a trial that adds up to the director and the management, because that's something else, but that's their responsibility. I, of course, do not intend to enter that field of play. I want to defend the public service again and claim that public service, work with criteria of professionalism. I think it's important that we all be very aware of what we have in our hands and keep working on the paper, lower the tone and go to the paper, where we are able to work. Let us work, Mrs Agirre – you are not interested in what I am telling you – that we continue to work there and work by leaving our skins, making proposals, taking them forward and remembering them. It's easier to stick than to remember. I am ready to agree; I have shown this today by signing the transaction with you, trying to find a consensus, that we had achieved it, even though in the debate it seems that this is something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Basque Popular. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u117	Thank you again, Madam President. The truth is that when I said that my surprise capacity was running out, no, no, really, I think I'm already going to consider it unlimited, because it's because, Mrs. Oregi, saying that the "free designation" is not a finger choice... dedocractic finger choice. A finger A dedocratica dedocratica freedom free dedocratica Dedocracia A finger! And the paper works in parallel. If I agree, if I am the first, and I am there, because it is true that reform is necessary, but that is not an obstacle so that certain approaches cannot be brought forward and agreements can be reached as we have reached here today. And I of course recognize the professionals in EITB. But forgive me for saying to you, Mrs Oregi, I probably have, and understand me well, more moral authority for the recognition of EITB professionals than you do, because you recognize them now, but when I was ruling the Socialist Party, when the director of EITB was socialist, then the professionals disappeared? They all went to Tele Madrid, to TV3, they all disappeared? Because then, come on, the criticisms of EITB were one day yes and the next too. One day yes and the next too. By the hearings, and already the current EITB address would like to have those hearings. You'd like that. And well, that was, like, EITB, come on, come on, come on! I mean, to shut it down. And get the bird out of the cage and come, let it fly. Come on, really, that is, the EITB professionals are the same now as in 2009, the same. The same. And I, look, of course I want you to change EITB, of course I want you to approve that reform of EITB. Because I want EITB to really be a public service, that public service that we pay for all Basques, in which we have to hear all Basques reflected, whatever our ideology, and to stop being the propaganda of a government and a certain ideology. And to make programs in which they moan, paid, and that cost a lot of money from all the Basques, that they moan from a part of the Basques. And that's why I'm telling you, look, I wouldn't get you a yellow card, I'd get you this card (karpeta gorri bat erakusten du), and if you had this card out on time, probably EITB would be on its way to being what it has to be, a real public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u118	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The discussion is over, we're going to vote, EH Collect, Euskal Socialists, the half-correction of the Podemos and Eukobertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-13.u119	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was four o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-nine.
