ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I just want you to know that the second point has been abandoned for another reason. First point in theme list: "Punciation of the legislatures of the Union, that the whole Union should produce a special field of inquiry, in order to illustrate the irregularities detected in the public and personal policy of the member, and to determine the responsibilities which the model of organizations in force enables such irregularities, and may be derived from such irregularities. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, the representative of the EHG, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u1	Good morning, everyone. Before the whole meeting starts today, I'd like to take advantage of the light. Too bad Garene Murga isn't here today. I wanted to welcome her, but tomorrow I'll take advantage of Mrs. Murga's welcome. Even in December, we discussed the demand for a deputy investigation, and at that time I told Mr. Darpón that it might not be right to explode just what has always been and the usual way, but that it was the saddest thing that the chief departments had ever done anything in order to change their culture. But he had a chance, he had an opportunity to change the function, this culture. The choice was not to keep it working, to guarantee it and to permit it. And I told him it was worth trying, but Mr. Darpón didn't take the chance. In consequence of this, every one must abolish the effects of his actions, and he has been obliged to accept political responsibilities. In the end, Mr. Darpón had to go away, he had to destroy political cares, but I mean that we wish him the best in personal order, although we don't share the management he's done with the public offer of jobs for our members. We disapprove of this management, and it seems unacceptable to us. But, Mr. Urkullu, do you know what's sadest? In public service offers for members of the administration, you show how the government has made decisions, how and when, or the impression you give, you don't give a damn what happened in public offers for Osar. That's it. The impression you're giving is that you want to maintain the pattern, culture, and, leaving the director of the human shares of the Hosamen and removing the director of the Osalegs. They're with their resignations, the Cortafuegos. So what you show is that you use people for the good of your system, and that you improve your system over people, over good and transparent management. And the worst part is that you're not ready to change, or at least that's the impression you've been making. The sadst thing is that you don't realize that this system is especially prejudicial to institutions and to politics, that it loses its credibility, but it seems that it's profitable to you. So, if you get an income, what's the use of changing it, right? Instead of making a government management, continuing with communicative management, governed and managed by distributions. But does he really deserve to keep this mutated eco system? Is it that important to keep this system? Look, you hang cocks around your neck and hang them, but as long as you don't put your hand in the chicken house, you don't put those chickens that feel cocky in their place, that is to say, until the system does not return to its own nature, it will be useless. And we may do this among all, or we ought to do it among all, in the highest degree of responsibility, among all: In the Government, as well as in the judicial way, because the three paths are supplementary and the three are absolutely necessary and essential. We'd like to put a handle on the irab on the table today, and we'd like to put a help on the table and turn the situation around. We won't have a chance for another 15 years, we don't know how many years we're going to be able to change our system today, change our role model. I just want to remind you that Merino was in '98, and the Margüello case from 2006 to 2017. And for percentages Then why don't you investigate this time, clean up the house, order? I know it's complicated. I know it's not easy. Why do you want them all to go on the same way? What's behind it? We don't understand. Patient interests, economic interests, self-interests I will repeat myself as garlic, but, as we have been saying from the beginning, it is not a question of turning heads, of cutting heads; it is not a question of looking for culprits, nor of threats, nor of blackmail. Just as we don't accept blackmail, we're not going to blackmail. It is a question of clarifying what has happened, of investigating, of going to the root, of taking steps to ensure that the same thing does not happen again. We have been involved in this from the beginning, even though we were not understood, and we will continue to work, despite the fact that today most of the parliamentary groups are looking elsewhere, despite the fact that we are constantly being hampered by the change in the model of personnel policy, even though we are trying to talk about opposition groups and not opposition groups, despite the communicative and political strategies of the chipirón. Because it is much easier to go over without going into the bottom of the issue, among other issues because it involves work. And, unfortunately, we are used to the policy of the holder and the contempt, instead of entering the bottom of the question, instead of entering the contents, which at the moment seems to work. We keep thinking that EH Collector is essential. We know the committees in the Parliament and in the Supreme Assembly, and I myself was at the head of the Víctor Bravo investigation, and we know what borders such researchers have, but we think that we have the best chance of ever having, and that we must study what has happened, where the gaps, what is to be improved, what is to be done, what is to be done, what is to be done, to be sure, and what is necessary to be confirmed, and what is necessary for the social policy. And of course, if there are more political cares, to determine those political cares too. What, did you read the records? Have you read the records? Look, if you'd read the records about the files, when the argument was over in a second. For if you read theacts, the intervention of the Osstance of the Director of Hosts is apparent, it is evident that the intervention of the Central Offices of the Osacians was not fulfilled; it is evident that the law, the manufacturing agent, had not been fulfilled; it is evident that the Anonymium established by the rules, had not been executed; it is evident that when the Department of Health had made an inquiry close, the documents were still wanting; and so on. And that's all written down. Therefore, politically, there is an inquiry into what is to be done, politically. And we don't want to escape our responsibility, and we want to do our job. The courts of justice must go their own way, but our way is at rest, and it is necessary to take political measures afterwards. We are here to make politics, not to play theater or to give them headlines. And it is well to determine what organisation the irregularity allows to produce, in order to change it. The policy of Interoperability, the policy of Contraction... to direct the defuncts that may be. Otherwise, what's the use of this trip? When the courts of justice give sentence, and if the punishment were paid, even if the punishment were paid, if it did not change the behavior of the Osata, changing the policy of exchange, everything will remain the same. It may explode, or it may not be; it may be public; we must wait another ten years; but if we did so, we political authorities would cheat society, we would deceive society, and we do not wish to deceive society, to deceive society. Well, I'd like to welcome him... Merene, welcome to your house, I wish you the best in personal order. I hope that in the political level you'll give a change of direction to thegest hitherto, you'll give it a break. "So we will be with you, and we will be companions; if not, and if you continue in the way of the declarations which you made yesterday, you will find us before you. So take the chance. Eta jarraitzen had to. Facts are love. Eta, momentu honetan, Murga andereri esan diodan bezala, apurketa bat behar dugu. We need facts, to get to the bottom of the issue, to act seriously, without frivolities, without frivolities, and outside the electoral dynamics; not to use elections to divert attention, nor to place the issue in the electoral lane to hide the Government's unwillingness to act and to address and resolve the issue. We'd like to request a change of direction with the new head of the Norma Medical Department, a change of politics. Otherwise, we understand that this government wants to remain the same way, that it wants to retain the model of the Osar, that it wants to continue with the policy of the blackmail, that is to follow the policy of the threat, that is to say, in the rhetorical calculations, in the aid of a squid strategy, in which case, as if the headlines were ink, ink, headlines, to cover and pollute everything. To win the policy credibility, to strengthen Osature, to restore the good name of the organizations...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u3	... even if it doesn't look like headlines, even if it's not mediatic, it's a little convenient for working, especially for what the medical professionals asked us to do this time when this case blew up. They told us frankly: "We don't want this to happen once more in a purely media case. We really want it to be useful this time to change the pattern, to change the system, to change the culture of the Oscars." Because we're all gonna win, Mrs. Murga, because we're all gonna win. Or, in other words, this case has made it clear that there are bad practices in the Basque public administration. There are elites that work with a modus operandi And it turns out that, in the OPE of Osakidetza, there are indications that these bad practices are more than settled. There are indications of the tests that have been leaked, that some posts were fingered, that some were a judge and a party to the process. Was there a crime? We don't know. It's up to the D.A. to say so. For now, he seems to see signs. Was there bad practice on the part of the public administration? Sure. There's no doubt about it. And that is for us in the Basque Parliament to investigate and correct it. It's in our hands.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Welcome, Mrs. Murga. From the People's Group we also wish him success, because, without a doubt, the success in the management of one of the most important departments of the Basque Government will benefit all Basques, but I also say to him, and we say to him from the People's Group, that for that success a change in management in some relevant aspects of his department is essential, such as that which has to do with all the personnel and human resources policy in his department. Therefore, let us hope that in the first months of your journey in your new responsibility your main task will, of course, be directed to those changes that are still necessary in your department's own human resources reorganization. I want to begin this intervention by saying that the People's Group's action, since the OPE scandal of Osakidetza 2016-2017 broke out, has been of absolute responsibility and rigour, and has sought to safeguard the good name of Osakidetza at all times. The concerns of the candidates for this OPE – we are talking about 96,000 people who have presented themselves – whose expectations, to a large extent, have been frustrated by the explosion of this scandal and the irregularities around the filtering of the contents of the exams in this OPE. Also, from the beginning, this group has tried to safeguard the various professionals working in Osakidetza – excellent professionals, not only recognized in the field of our Autonomous Community, but also in the rest of Spain – and to safeguard, also, all professional categories and some who were being pointed out especially when the scandal and irregularities broke out in the OPE of Osakidetza. These irregularities have clearly shown that the principles inherent in a selective process – the principles of equality, merit and capacity – have been violated and that, of course, this OPE has not been characterised by due impartiality and transparency. Hence we say that the Populous Party has acted with all care since they had been recognised by irregularity, and that we have sought to confirm the reputation of the Osar. It is evident here that the principles of public offerings are not guaranteed, and that the transparency is at the same time shaken. Undoubtedly it was the alarm generated by this scandal in the OPE of Osakidetza, which could not be at all alien to this government, and this is what the People's Party has tried to put through its numerous initiatives. I have to remind you that we were among the first groups to ask for explanations in this Parliament regarding this scandal, calling for the appearance of the former Health Adviser, Mr Darpón, and the former Director-General of Osakidetza. As I said, the alarm generated has been obvious, and the Government had to act. From this group we want to show that the attitude of this Government, Mr Lehendakari, has left much to be desired. Management has been absolutely deficient. We must remember that, first of all, the irregularities did not want to be recognised by the adviser himself, by the director general of Osakidetza herself, Mrs Múgica. These irregularities were not recognized in their absolute dimension and, when there was no other remedy, efforts were made to minimize them. Mr Lehendakari, you have gone absolutely to dispel the events and information that were going on in the press; decisions have been taken when there is no other remedy. I have to remind you that the Group of the European People's Party – apart from asking for the above-mentioned appearances of Mr Darpón and Mrs Múgica – was the first group in this Parliament to put on the table, through a concrete initiative, the assumption of political responsibilities in this matter, and that they should take place in the person who at the time held the highest responsibility in Osakidetza, as was Mrs Múgica. Undoubtedly, there have been many questions that we have asked ourselves over the course of all these months, and this group and the People's Party have put them on the table: everything that has to do with the leaks; everything that has to do with the experts who have prepared these tests; everything that has to do with who gave that list of experts. These questions have been put by the People's Party, over the course of all these months, in numerous appearances. There are two issues, no doubt, that marked one before and one after: the Ararteko report – a report that I believe should be praised; clarifying, compelling, with very clear recommendations – and the investigations by the Prosecutor's Office, which concluded in a complaint that was brought before the relevant court. The investigations of the Office of the Prosecutor concluded in the proceedings initiated on the basis of the complaints lodged in the targeted trials under suspicion, following the submission of the relevant complaints. This was a qualitative leap – I said it, said my party's president, Alfonso Alonso – when we talked about a qualitative leap, because we were no longer talking about simple administrative irregularities; we were talking, Mr Lehendakari, about allegedly criminal proceedings and that would, if they were resolved in court, lead to a possible criminal conviction and criminal sanction. We would therefore like to stress once again that this group, apart from asking the adviser and the director for explanations, has, from the outset, called for political responsibility. And, Mr. lehendakari, this matter is and has been very serious. It's just that we're talking, not just about the resignation of a counselor last week, because there was no longer any remedy. You know that the situation was unsustainable, that the coup d'état of the information that was emerging could no longer be stopped and, above all, following the strong report of the Office of the Prosecutor and the submission of the relevant complaint. But it has not only been the resignation of the councillor, it has been two cessations: the people who held the highest responsibility in Osakidetza, Mr Darpón and Mrs Múgica. This, Mr Lehendakari – not just the cessation of a councillor for absolutely poor management, but of the senior officials of Osakidetza – has never happened in the history of this government, Mr Lehendakari, of your government. You will therefore have to reflect deeply on how all these matters have been handled. As I said, the demand position of the People's Party has been decisive in adopting these political responsibilities, because from the outset we call for the assumption of these political responsibilities and the full clarification of the facts. But, as I said, our goal has always been, and will continue to be, to save Osakidetza's good name, to restore credibility to Osakidetza and to eliminate any shadow of doubt that may remain about Osakidetza's management and poor management of personnel policy and this OPE. We have therefore acted with absolute force, but with absolute responsibility. As for the initiative we are debating today – the approval, if any, of a committee of inquiry – we understand from the Group of the European People's Party, and we understand that a committee of inquiry has clarified political responsibilities, which so far have assumed the corresponding political responsibilities, for which there was no other remedy, Mr Lehendakari, in order to safeguard, precisely, the good name of Osakidetza and restore that credibility absolutely questioned by this terrible management of this whole matter. But, given that political responsibilities have been assumed at the highest level, given that there is also an ongoing judicial investigation, because the complaint lodged by the Prosecutor's Office has already been admitted by the relevant investigating court, I believe that the right thing to do at the moment is not to approve the formation of a committee of inquiry in this Parliament. What has changed since the last initiative? It is that many things have changed, it is that when we discussed EH Bildu's latest proposal regarding the creation of a commission of inquiry, we only had the cessation of the director general of Osakidetza, Mrs. Múgica. We now have, as I have pointed out, the cessation (on 4 January) of the Director of Human Resources, the resignation of the adviser, a report by Ararteko and judicial investigations that are continuing within the courts. I therefore believe that political responsibilities have already been removed, which is what is being sought with the creation of this committee of inquiry. We have to wait for Justice to act and, depending on how events unfold, to make decisions. But let us hope that, of course, Mr Lehendakari, you have learned from what has happened, because I think we must stress the seriousness of what has happened. Obviously, I understand that you have made decisions because you understood the gravity of the facts. Let us hope – as we trust in Justice – that all these questions will be clarified and that those who have tried to stain...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u6	Love, mesad, Garrido andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u7	... the good name of Osakidetza fulfils the appropriate criminal liability, if any.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u8	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u9	Thank you, President, and good morning. Welcome, Mrs. Murga, and all the luck in the management that will touch you from now on. We continue today with the rosary of initiatives around the 2016-2017 OPE of Osakidetza, a rosary that seemed to end, but that we see that it continues and continues, and I understand that those accused of electoral interests should look a little bit at the initiatives they present week after week. We have not discussed the possibility of setting up a committee of inquiry too long ago – last December – and, frankly, if at that time we did not see the need to vote in favour of this initiative, we do not see it today either. I will try to explain the reasons why my group will vote against this initiative. I will focus on talking about what marks my own non-law proposition, far from re-analyzing everything that seems to interest some to keep insisting. Yesterday we discussed in the Health Commission an initiative that concerned the change of courts in the repetition of the reviews of this OPE. In the end nothing came out, neither the amendment of one, nor the amendment of another, nor even the original initiative, because we were unable to reach an agreement, although there are aspects on which I believe we all agree. The speeches come in tight, the positions come in armored, and the objectives of both are absolutely well-known. I don't know if there are real intentions to agree to move forward. We have been debating this matter for many months now. We have positioned ourselves with regard to almost everything that has to do with this OPE. We have been involved in external reports with the primary objective of contributing to the solution of the problem. And, frankly, I believe that progress has been limited, because it is optimistic, in this House. I believe that all groups share the need to work because the principles – those of which Mrs Garrido spoke to us, of equality, merit and capacity – are respected in the selective processes, which are inherent in a selective process of access to the public service. On the other hand, we also share the need to work on a new model, and, therefore, we cannot understand how it is said that there are obstacles to reaching that new model and how it can be said that there are parties looking the other way. A model supported by new measures, which, in addition to ensuring that what happened in the OPE does not happen again, improves the current model, which we recognise, and have always recognised, has areas of improvement and need to cover certain shortcomings. The Socialist Group has maintained the same position from the outset. While there were those who had only the ultimate objective of seeing resignations or cessations on the table – although we want to say something else today – the socialists understood that the fundamental thing was to clarify the events that had taken place, to put in place an improved procedure, taking note of what had happened, and not to politicize a judicial process – because those who today are in certain political responsibilities are only conjuncture – in addition to protecting Osakidetza as an institution, recognizing the work of the public health system professionals and devoting all the necessary resources so that the more than 70,000 participants in these examinations can re-engage with all the necessary guarantees. In recent months, we have been able to witness two important events – because many things have happened –: on the one hand, last February, we knew that the Prosecutor's Office saw signs of a crime of secret disclosure in the OPE of Osakidetza and pointed out three heads of service as alleged perpetrators of the leaks being investigated. And, on the other hand, the report prepared by Ararteko, which concludes with a number of recommendations. On the first, we defend the independence with which the courts have to work. We should not politicize or pretend to politicize what the courts have to decide. And, with respect to the second, of course, study and analyse it, carefully addressing the recommendations with which it concludes. In the meantime, I believe that we should not lose sight of those agreements that are always told to the Government that it must comply when we agree to them in Parliament. I believe that there was a fundamental and important agreement that we reached on 21 June 2018, a unanimous agreement almost in its entirety, which contained a road map drawn up by the opposition and agreed with the government parties, in which we supported seven of the eight points through a compromise amendment. Point one spoke of indignation, malaise, solidarity and commitment, and, of course, I think we have had occasions and occasions to talk about this. Point two referred to the requirement for the Government to clarify the facts through a comprehensive analysis. We believe that at this stage there should be no doubt as to the wishes of the Government to come to the end of this matter; therefore, a point which has been fulfilled. The third point was about an external report from the University of Oviedo. I think I remember that, before we had the summer vacation, we were explained by the person who had written that report, that person who came from the University of Oviedo; therefore, point three completed. Point four: transfer of any evidence of irregularity to the Office of the Prosecutor. We refer to the facts. Point four completed. Point 5: Paralysing selective procedures, once (...) the Prosecutor's Office has a party that has been paralysed; therefore, it has been completed. Point six: make public the lists of results of the OPE. Complimentary. Point seven: proposals for measures, meetings with the different groups, in which we have each been able to contribute what we have considered. And that's where we're still at. It is a process that is in place; therefore, it is not fulfilled in its entirety because in time it has not given time, but I believe that the intention of the Government is clearly seen. And item eight: creation in the first quarter of the 19th of a working group to analyze the model of personnel policy and selection processes in Osakidetza and, where appropriate, to make any relevant changes. Yesterday we had a first meeting to talk about this working group, which, in the end, is to be called a paper; therefore, a completed point. We could therefore say that those commitments which this House acquires, almost unanimously, on all its points, except on one, last June, are being carried out in time and form, understanding that each area of action should be devoted to what is appropriate. As I said, this agreement was agreed by the opposition parties with the parties supporting the Government. I just don't know what else they want to do. Now they want to insist on the commission of inquiry. I believe that an agreement has been reached in this plenary and I believe that there is nothing more to be said than that the Government is fulfilling. And what do I mean by that? That we cannot turn this plenary or the Health Commission into a political tribunal, week after week, which acts in parallel with or intends to act in parallel with the courts of justice. The Prosecutor's Office is working, acting, even seems to have blamed certain people – and let us remember that the accused are not accused, but investigated –; the policy, for its part, is also acting – and I think we are doing it well – and clear responsibilities have been assumed in several figures with important responsibilities within Osakidetza's organizational chart, culminating in the highest political responsibility, which was Mr Darpón. I therefore began this speech by saying that I was going to give our reasons not to support Mrs Ubera's initiative, just as we did not support her in December, and that is how I intend to conclude my speech. We will vote that not because we do not share the politicization of justice and electoral interests, Mrs Ubera, when there are elections in May. We will vote that not because Osakidetza's prestige, courage and guarantee should be above political interests. We understand that a commission of inquiry would help the institution very little and would harm many professionals. We will vote that not because in this Chamber we agreed on an amendment which, as I have done, has been complied with by the Government as a whole, and that amendment pointed to a clear line of work, agreed by all. We will vote that not because yesterday we took the first step towards a new model, a new model for which we are all working with the Government. And so it could continue to give reasons and reasons, because, every time we discuss an initiative concerning the OPEs of Osakidetza, there are and there are reasons why we believe that this is beginning to be a scandal on the part of the opposition: bring and bring this to keep it in the headlines. Therefore, from now on, from the Socialist Group we only hope that we will get to work now, without excuses, on the future model, which is what remains on the table. Let us agree that this situation should not be repeated again and let us invest our time in having the best public health system, taking into account the professionals of today and those of the future, who are the ones who presented themselves to the opposition, fleeing from generalities and free accusations. We are in an open process, which we hope will be completed soon and in the best possible way, but not because it can reverse the political parties that we are in this House today, but because of those and the professionals who have presented themselves to these OPEs and those who will present themselves to future ones, and because of the good functioning of Osakidetza. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u10	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u11	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. President. Chief Murga, welcome. On 19 July, Mr Darpón appeared in this Parliament to report on the irregularities of the OPE in Osakidetza, which had been denounced by trade unions and medical doctors and which the Elkarrekin Podemos report had been corroborating. On the same day, I already expressed the need for the creation of a commission of inquiry that would give birth to everything that had happened. It was necessary to create it after listening for hours to the government and to make it clear that its only objective was to punish those who had made the complaint – as it has been – and to cover everything up quickly, wanting to make us believe that it was capital letters and justifications on the right, that is, psychometric concepts. There is no doubt that the exams are largely improveable, but what was being talked about was something more serious. We were talking about leaks or the crime of revealing secrets by the public official, if you prefer. Four days later, EH Bildu recorded this initiative that we discussed on December 12 and that is now back to this plenary session. In these months, we have been able to know the recommendations of Ararteko in relation to the 2016-2017 OPE of Osakidetza and the report of the Prosecutor's Office, which confirms what in Elkarrekin We have been saying from the minute one in relation to doped OPEs. The same thing we thought in July we thought now: we need an investigation that talks about leaks, instead of inconcretions, irregularities or problems without mating. A valuable time has been wasted for all those affected by the doped OPEs, who need an explanation and, above all, a solution. We now have a department that, supported by the opening of eight information files in which there may have been problems, by the resignation or termination of former officials – such as Mrs. Múgica, Mr. Soto or former Councillor Jon Darpón – supported by an attempt to change the model – which we will see; it is to be done – wants to complete this OPE and give folder. However, today, we do not know what happened. None of the measures that I have mentioned clarify or resolve anything. We are not giving a solution to the victims either. A very precious time has been left for all those opponents sentenced to repeat examinations with the same opportunities as they did the first time, that is, with none; with the same courts; with the same corrupt and mafia model that has been used to date. Yesterday we discussed it in committee, and again, they have not been given any solution. Moreover, culminating in this OPE, this model is a good one, which is nothing other than to pre-select those who are going to overcome the OPE. And I don't say it; the chief prosecutor says it. We need to investigate all hospital specialties because the same reasons have been given for investigating some specialties and not to do so in others, or to recommend repetition and to assess that there is no need to re-run some tests and yes others. See the example of the digestive specialty, whose member of the court and author of the examination is today charged, or investigated, as desired. We have asked actively and passively for the ongoing investigation to reach its final consequences and to point out to those responsible. And the government's reaction has always been to deny any kind of irregularity, any kind of irregularity. They opted for the attack and the denial of what happened. There was no interest rate for telling us what had happened in the OPE. 2016-2017 by Osakidetza. And this has led Mr Darpón to have to abandon his executive, his poor management in a crisis like this, which, far from resolving, he preferred to cover up. They could not put up with this opacity strategy, hiding the lists included, and information files of some specialties were opened, motivated by the evidence offered by statistics and other actions, such as the public denunciation of two members of cardiology and angiology courts, or the notarial records of Elkarrekin in relation to the OPE of anesthesia and trauma. We know that the member of the cardiology court – and he puts it in government files – warned of leaks in his specialty before the test was held, and no one did anything. We also know that part of the angiology court pointed out one of its members as the person who leaked information from both evidence, which she herself had designed, and today charged by the Prosecutor's Office. And no one did anything. And yet this has not been explained to us. The department, with its until a week ago advisor, was shielded in the autonomy, sovereignty and independence of the courts when all of them are intervened by a non-optional Osakidetza member. He wanted to hide the scam after a psychometric study unable to detect leaks, while showing himself as a flag of Osakidetza's transparency. Too much resources and energy have been spent trying to hide something from everyone that was already known: that there is a corrupt practice to distribute the places of hospital specialists by some heads of service. A normalized and assimilated practice by those who work in Osakidetza in an interim manner and who expect their time to opt for it. What has become clear is that, if the government has done something, it is to protect this model, OPE after OPE, legislature after legislature. Elkarrekin We do not believe that these practices are not known within Osakidetza and the Department of Health, and that is why they have wanted to hide us all more than behind a catalogue of blankets that we have already listed in other interventions: arbitrary repetition of examinations of three specialties (anesthesia, cardio and angiology), making the duck pay only a few; psychometric report that served as an alibi for the government to be able to rely on something and the contrary with the same argument, and that cost us 14.999 euros; model change report that aims to whiten irregularities – because I do not imagine that anything can be improved without, a priori, having We need a more transparent and democratic Osakidetza, and we will not be bored to repeat it. If anything, the Government has shown that it has not wanted to investigate; it has only wanted to cover it up. And, better late than never, today we also believe that it is necessary to set up a committee for this Parliament to investigate and bring to light all that this Government has refused to make known. That is why we will also support this initiative today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. And Chief Murga, we've got the best chance of your work from our staff. Hutsa Zinicism, Ubera anderea. Hutsa Zinicism! Gertatu dena geratuta, zinismo hutsez etorri zara hona. Hutsez Zinicism. "Dappón didn't take the chance to solve the situation," you say. And Mrs Garrido said: "la gestion inficiaz del caso." And Mrs. Macazaga, nothing was done. Mr. Darpón and his team, from the first moment, took several steps. And you and you all know that it has come to this parliament all over again and again. No passo nada a pesar de que informe de la Fiscalía dicen lo que dice. Mr. Darpón sent all the information to the prosecutor before the prosecution asked for him. You're talking about the intermedial report over and over again, and Mr. Darpón and I just got a full report and all the information from the World to make that report. He sent him everything, they were with him, and offered to work with him. We've had all the information that has been requested on this legislature and more about this situation. It's all phony and it's just cynicism. To say that nothing was done, and no information was given. That's not true. Darpón's resignation was just an informal computation. Cree el ladrón que todo el miundo es su condicion. You think everybody's doing this all the same. You think it's fun when this guy named the Jest Party himself, Darpón's Tailululo Elctoral. I know what apostiplasis to use, consequently, has left on the road one of the greatest leaders who have had the public eupscal system to lead the system of health. Each will see what his ethics are, and each one his responsibility, the allá cada uno conciencia, but this is reality. "Mutated echosystem," "a corrupt system." If the public health system were a system that could be broken down, it would consist of different elements: the staff, infrastructure, technology, leadership and health care offered. It is a system that has 8.2 points out of 10 of all public health systems in the state, 8.2. Do you want to tell me how an ecosystem that is so corrupt can have this? Didazue dung? We believe in eupscal's health system, the Osar, the quality and qualification of all the employees. We believe that the attention they give is perfect. We know that the economic effort that's done, directed from 3 to 1 Euro to investments, and directed to technology, is really a value. In other places, as long as the hospitals have been torn up, Eukadin, Darpón, three hospitals have been deployed. Leadership, we believe in the leadership of the department. Hori gives, if we disintegrate and decompose that system, that of Osakidetza, what we would have: personnel, health care, infrastructure, technology and leadership. And it's a system that has an 8.2 over 10. But it seems to you that it is a corrupt system that people should be ashamed of. There was no doubt that no cuentan es este es un pueblo pequeño. This is a small town, and we all know what reality is here. That's why all this won't work. Obstraculos para emo model de la OPE? But how is it possible? There's been an investigation with the University of Oviedo, known in this parliament, known to you, mentioned by the intermediary, which has never been made anywhere else, and is a terrible advance. Jiménez, Professor Asensio, has here proposed new proposals to change the pattern. There's a team that's working for it, that's what it's all about. Merene Murga, the chief physician today, has been meeting with you in the past few weeks to perform this new change of pattern. We, the legislature teams, were to go on with what we created yesterday. But do you deny that it's fun to do it? It's pure falsity, pure cynicism, that's what's here. And the researcher, back here. In December he argued, and turned away. Because it's bringing that back to you in your political schedule every week, or a press conference or an initiative. I'm talking about the Jéltzian Party, or the Urkullu... I'm afraid I'm embarrassed. Operación PNV, operación Urkullu... I don't know what you have. You want me to make an investigation for political concerns, when they haven't been checked, or when they haven't checked what happened? Hemen zuzendari batek, zuzendari orokor batek, Sailburu batek ardurak hartu dituzte. "Assumption of political responsibilities," Mrs. Garrido. Five reprobated ministers have had you and none have resigned. Here, yes. None! Here, here. Look at the political responsibilities, which have been assumed before the facts have been proved. What do you want? The judgment process? There's judicialized. What do you want? Changing the Pattern? There's some fun at work, there's some lawmen working. What's the purpose of what we're discussing today? Well, I'll tell you what it is: that is, la operación PNV operación Urkullu. And Darpón was just a piece there. Unfortunately, it's done with the added value it's giving him! I don't know what we all do, what we do to her. Often, I'm sure a lot of us are coming home saying, "What do we give politics?" What value do we attach to it? "I don't know. But I'm sure we'll all be silent, as I say, about how much Darpón has added to his colleagues and health system in this country. Eta operation PNV scandal policy The politics of scandal And he also said: "The top stage of scandal politics is parliamentary investigation, where some members of these parliamentary committees..." Eta gu ere egon gara ikerketa-batzorde batan –Tellería jauna éta ni Epsilon éta Hiriko ikerketa-batzordean egon ginen –, ezagutu izan dugu orduko ondorioak zeintzuk izan diren. Nork skatu from the barkamena? Nork Aztertu of the zer kalte egin ahal den horrelako gauzekin?. Hutsa zinism, Hutsa falsukeria from the barik ekitea lot. Eta esaten du: "...where some members of these commissions..." play properly, they make filtration measures so that they can be removed. So they are heroes for the media, so long as they achieve the goal. Eta amaitzen zuen, denbora amaitu doubelako, eta esaten zuen Castellsek: "The characteristic of scandal politics is that all the political actors who practice it are trapped in the same plot. Today's hunter – today's hunter – is tomorrow's prey."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. In the turn of the answers, the representative of the EH Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u15	"Mehatxuaren politica", "beldurraren politica"... Gorospe andrea. Operation bikini operation bikini operation Osakidetza OPE Y el rosarius va contantir, Mrs. Gorospe, Miss Rojo. That's where we're working from June, Nikolakina, September, October, November, and we'll be working on elections or not to be campaigns or campaigns, because it's the same for us and we're doing our work exactly the same. Are things different for you? For you things change, because Darpón's resignation is clearly established in a purely commercial calculation. And here the only question to answer is: Mrs. Murga, who should choose? Who's got to pick jobs? Who's the job for? That's the answer to the question. And we want these jobs to be for the best and the most prepared. That's what we're working for, that's what we're working for. That is the only question to answer here: Who are these jobs for? That's the answer to the question. And that's just why we're here. And we will continue to work, September, October, November... And we've been working on the same work since January until now. And if you think that all the work that comes from January to May is informal, do you know what we could do? Dissolve this camera, we all go home and we'll have a ball. And then here, it's very common... Dialectic is valid for whatever it is, and generally there are jokers. "The law" is a symbol, and another is a judicial method has been used much in the 'Advocacy' investigation. And today came out another one: "el bud nombre de Osar." "Por el belle nombre de Osaride," back the researcher. If we want to confirm the good name of membership, what we should have to do is to improve politics and try to improve what has been explained and not to prevent the opposite. Because with what you're doing, you're doing the wrong thing. Y eso se le llama "contunencia," "actuor contundencia en el loen nombre de Osabalicia." But I didn't expect anything more for today. To tell the truth, I don't know why I'm still thinking it's possible to change things, that some groups change their ways and attitudes, and, worse still, why I think that parties supporting the system will change their behavior, because the parties that hold up the system at every crossing are still supporting the system. And then, those who support the system are good, and all the rest are evil, and we are self-deservatives, "electrators," "chastalists,"ramlodides." And I don't know why I still think it's possible to handle this town as if it weren't a bat to handle it when it works like a tree. In the end, what you have done until now is justified, justified, and justified, rather than studied and improved in the way which you have done. That's what we've seen. Defensive behavior, low management, irresponsible, low level... And the worst of all is now that you seem to fall on the same stone again. It's a shame, a pity, when the situation asks for a different level. Bad practice of public administration doesn't work with government patents That is what we proposed with our proposal: light and stenographers. Light and stenographs on the irregularities of the OPE of Osakidetza. Total transparency. What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? Ez jarri isiltas unarrange the law. Show me you really want to lift the carpets and shake the carpets, because that's the only way you're going to get Hosa as a model public service, because that's the only way you're going to prove you really want to be a model public member duty and keep a reputation for membership. Otherwise, everything else is superfluous. Hechos son concessions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u17	Thank you, Madam President. I've been waiting for you, Mrs. Gorospe. His intervention, his victimism, his lack of self-criticism is rather regrettable, because the subject has no possible defence. It is that this had never happened, it is that this had never happened in Euskadi and it has happened to you, and it has happened to you with the lehendakari Urkullu. What happens, that because it was the PNV these things can't come out in public light and they don't have to be clarified and they don't have to take responsibility? But do you believe in democracy and the rule of law? Look, if the advisor believed so much in his management and that he saved Osakidetza's good name with his management and with the management of this whole OPE, we attended two contradictory statements. First the councillor said that if there was a reprobation, he would leave; then he said that he would not leave. Why haven't you guys held on? Why have they not endured today, here, the debate of a reprobation if they relied so much on the management of the health counselor? Or was it that there was no longer any choice but to accept the resignation of the Health Adviser, Mr Darpón – two months after that of Mrs Múgica and Mr Soto's – to stop the blow of this scandal, Mrs Gorospe? It is clear from the seriousness of these facts that he has had to resign the maximum responsible for Basque public health and the two maximum responsible for the design and management of this OPE and for the management of all the irregularities of this scandal. Man, do you talk to me about scruples when the Basque Nationalist Party, in the Congress of Deputies and in Madrid, has not had scruples in blaming ministers as well as so, and when it has not had scruples in giving stability to a government one week – approving budgets – and the next week – with its five decisive votes – in throwing a government out? Does the Basque Nationalist Party talk to me about scruples? But what does the Basque Nationalist Party believe here, that Osakidetza is of the Basque Nationalist Party? Look, the good name of Osakidetza is mainly due to all the good professionals who work in Osakidetza. That's what Osakidetza's good name is for. And those who, of course, have tarnished the good name of Osakidetza – and do not mix things with me – are those who have made an absolutely poor management of all this scandal of irregularities that have been detected. They had no choice, because – as I said in my first speech – apart from the demands that this group has, of course, put on the table – taking on political responsibilities and fully clarifying the facts – the facts will also be clarified, Mrs Gorospe. They will be clarified, yes, because all those who have wanted to tarnish the good name of Osakidetza will parade through the courthouse. And there, as the corresponding political responsibilities have already been assumed, the facts will be clarified and the corresponding criminal responsibilities will be clarified. This will be the time, above all, when Osakidetza's good name and credibility will be saved. Because, look, the Prosecutor's report, which concludes that the relevant complaint is filed with the competent court, and has been admitted to court, is absolutely conclusive. And that was a turning point for this government, and for the lehendakari, who, together with the councillor, takes the decision. He talks to me about electoralism, but if you've made this decision at the door of... Will not electoralism be the electoral calculation you have made of having a councillor resign because there was no other remedy, because the situation was unsustainable and because two electoral processes are coming? Aren't you the ones who have already played with election calculus? Look, I was talking to him about the prosecution's strong report, which culminates in the complaint to the competent court, and which has been admitted to court. That report was a qualitative leap, this complaint was a qualitative leap, but not only because of the administrative irregularities we were already (...) until then... It's not administrative irregularities, it's that we're talking about allegedly criminal proceedings. And there was a political responsibility, of course, for the highest officials of Osakidetza who designed and managed this OPE and, of course, for the highest officer in the department, the Health Advisor, Mr Darpón. But, look, this report also made a qualitative leap because it has become clear that the Government, with the Councillor, in its numerous appearances and statements in this Parliament, has failed the truth. And, as we trust in Justice, all this, fortunately, will be clarified in the courts. And he who has not told the truth, and if he has lied to this Parliament and if he has played with Parliament, of course, will be discovered in the courts. And that will be the moment when Osakidetza's good name is saved, with the full clarification of the facts and the assumption of the corresponding criminal responsibilities in his case. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u18	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u19	Thank you, President. Mrs Garrido, in a good tone – the rest I will leave to Mrs Gorospe –, honestly, you have done today what you have been doing since the moment the OPE scandal skips: say one thing and the opposite. The good thing is that today it seems to be right in the sense of the vote. Honestly, you don't understand what you're doing because one thing is what you say and another thing is what you vote for, which I'm glad about today, but, honestly, I understand that Mrs. Gorospe will already give you all the arguments you have to give. "Light and stenographers," Mrs. Ubera told us. Light and stenographers. Have we all been informed publicly and privately? Yes or no? Yeah, I think so. Have we all had the opportunity and access to the minutes, dossiers and documentation required in relation to the EPAs? Yes or no? I think you were one of the first people to come to read them; therefore, you have been able to do so. Has the matter been brought to justice because it was understood that there could be a crime? Yes or no? He took off, didn't he? Good. Are we all participating in that model that you, as an opposition, posed to the government parties? Yes or no? How can we say that we are trying to hinder and not work on what has to do with the clarification of cases? Mrs. Macazaga was talking to us before a "corruption and mobster" model. So, free of charge. They release it here, because here everything is worth; the freedom of expression given to us by the rostrum. Everything's fine. Because you want to turn this debate into the debate of the good and the bad. Some people listen, those who work, those who contribute and those who look after the interests of the Basque citizens, and others we are the ones who hinder, allow them to be corrupted and try to hide everything that has to do with the issue of the OPE. And, frankly, far from what we are defending the political parties, it seems to me profoundly unfair, because, that amendment that you do not want to talk about and that we all agreed on in June, you know the work that led us all to draft so that we can agree. But what is not possible, Mrs Ubera, is, in the end, trying to destroy the bridges we create. We knew that the issue of opposition was something that concerned us all and that we all had to put the tools in the middle of it. "Let me speak, which I have heard him," the tools and measures so that this would not happen again. And you come here, almost 10 months later, and you start your replica intervention by saying, "And the rosary will continue." Of course, it will continue, when you have told us about electoral calculation, about profitability, about particular, economic and customer interests, that we want to go over everything and that we expand the strategy of the chipirón, which you have told us 14 times. Election calculation, whose? Whose election calculation is it, Mrs. Ubera? Whose? No, not from who? Because I understand, and I have not been in politics for so many years, as many of the leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party, if this is thought of the resignation of Mr Darpón, for electoral interests, I understand, I do not know, in my humble opinion, that this would not have happened in March. I mean, I don't know. They have much more experience than I have; they have been ruling for many years; I think so. And I don't think it's fair some of the statements you're saying. And then another pearl that releases us is "you, who support the system." It's just that you're a system when you're right. You guys, what's going on? What have they shown up here on a spaceship? You are as much part of the system as I am, with one difference: that you have never participated in the construction of what has to do with this country, because you have always been in front of it, saying yes to what suits you, speaking on behalf of that "Basque people", that I don't know who those with whom you meet are, because it seems that only you meet professionals and people affected by the OPE. And I don't say no, because I recognize one thing for you, truly: work. And I have to recognize it, and it deserves the utmost respect. The work is to contribute, to try to find solutions and, above all, to, when an agreement is reached, to comply with it, which is what we are doing, which is what I have shown you by derailing all the compromise amendment that you and I, and the rest of the speakers, agreed that day in June. And it seems to me that one cannot abstract from the system when it suits you and be the protagonist of the system when it turns out that we rule in some institutions, Mrs Ubera. Because you and I are part of the same system, of it, and you cannot say the barbarities that are being said about Osakidetza, the operation and history of an absolutely valued institution, and reference to many autonomous communities. I recognize that there is an area of improvement, yes; it has been recognized from the very beginning. The issue of opposition has proved to be a problem for the Government, yes; Mr Darpón acknowledged it at the first appearance when we came to talk about this issue. But what you can't say is that we're trying to solve it through chopsticks. What do you mean, kicks? Patalettes would have been to never present a compromise amendment and have voted "no" always, and try not to agree anything with the opposition parties. You were the protagonist, and it is true, of falling into the need to work on the future model. And that's what we're working on. But in this case we cannot accuse the government parties of hindering, stopping or not working, because I believe that we should all be working hand in hand on this, and, far from criticizing what we are doing, we should all work together to ensure that this does not happen again. And about the "electoral interests," I think you should look at it, Mrs Ubera, because this is the second time we have discussed this, and it is getting closer and closer to the elections. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u20	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Together represent the Podemos team. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u21	Mila esker, president anderea. Well, to start with, Mrs. Gorospe: the Prosecutor's Office requires Osakidetza a lot of documentation, as it is therefore interested to require Osakidetza to provide both relations of opponents with its reference center and members of the court of the specialties mentioned in the section of facts, with its charge and reference center. We too ask; we have never been given. It is written in this Parliament. Complete records of the specialties referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, with the declarations made and all the records that the courts would have kept, and much more. I mean, the D.A. doesn't have all the documentation. I do not think we have come here to talk about either Mr Darpón or the Basque public health system as a whole; I think we were talking about fraud today, about access to the staff in Osakidetza. And it is true that this fraud is now being brought to justice, and it will be the courts that will determine criminal liability if there are any. We do not seek criminal responsibility here; we seek to know what happened, to give solutions, and, of course, to cleanse all political responsibility, if it could be given. They are committed to saying that the Government has a commitment to investigate until the end. And the problem is, he doesn't execute it. The only thing that exposes it is that citizens do not want to know anything, and that the leaks remain as mere speculation and pass into history as such, when we all already know that the leaks are a reality, and so the fall of Mrs Múgica, Mr Soto and Mr Darpón shows. Because there is a problem, and they are not able to assume that a fundamental right has been violated in these OPEs: equal opportunities. And the government wants us to think it was because of a wrong correction model. And they mix it all with everything else, with the pre-election period, and they're there, even trying to name a "PNV operation" – with the hashtag looks good – but I don't think we're on it. I, at least, am trying to give a solution to a people we haven't given the solution to. A corrupt model was accepted, of course, which allows for the choice of those who will pass the OPE before even designing the exam itself. The Department of Health knew him and consented to him. But not only that, when we gave them the opportunity to denounce this model, they just wanted to deny it and cover it up, and try to make it no longer transcend the account, even mentioning wild words, like "isolated cases." Indeed, this is a very small town, and that's why the doped OPEs were vox populi Ten months after the outbreak of the OPE crisis, the Government had had enough time to investigate, if it had had the will. Some categories have been investigated, but to the detriment of others that meet the same parameters as the Department of Health determined to be valid for investigation. And we don't say that. This arbitrariness is expressed by Ararteko in her recommendations and the Chief Prosecutor's Office in her report. This leads us to have specialties, such as the OPE of traumatology, with 120 opponents for 55 places, in which they approve 56 with maximum notes of 100. In the Hospital del Alto Deba, of which Elkarrekin Podemos made notarial record, the service is formed by 8 persons, of which 3 are fixed – 2 of them members of the court – and the other 5 persons are interim and obtain the place with a rating greater than 90. Elkarrekin Podemos was right in a second record of demonstrations, as I said, and the report of the University of Oviedo points out that the distribution of scores does not conform to a normal distribution. The same mention that is made in evidence as anesthesiology, but, however, it is decided that it is not repeated and everything remains in a sham to the court. The OPE of urology, with 14 places and 14 approved opponents. Or the digestive one, which I mentioned. And the rest of the categories, what's going on? We're talking about six; there's a lot more uninvestigated. Are we going to be left with the doubt? I'm not ready; I want you to look into it. That is why I support this committee of inquiry; I want to know what has happened, in order to find a solution. Not wanting to accept a commission of inquiry – neither before nor now – can only be understood in two ways: they don't want to know or they already know and they don't need to know. Just like you have more information than I do and you know what happened, for which you do not need any kind of investigation. I finish as I did on 12 December: Parliament must have the capacity to investigate and bring to light everything that the Government has wanted to hide, draw its own conclusions, clear responsibilities and also have the opportunity to work with Justice once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u23	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Macazaga anderea, the prosecution has asked for more information. Osakidetza, the Government has sent you the information it deems appropriate. The Office of the Prosecutor will request more, more information will be requested and will continue to be sent. I understand that this is the ordinary procedure. "Isolated cases," he said. Man, three persons, three officials, three officials, I insist, without any political responsibility, investigated, when we are talking about a procedure where 96,000 persons have been brought forward, 86 courts, 3,335 places and more than 1,300 persons forming the courts. Well, you'll tell me what we're talking about. And you were talking about that you don't want to move this. Let's see, we can be born... Its natural habitat is the troubled waters in the institutional sphere. They were born of turbulent waters. And that's the habitat you need to survive, in the absence of another project. Of course it will, I have no doubt, Mrs Red, of course it will. That is absolutely marked and this will continue. It is not a short-term electoral issue; this is a structural electoral issue, it is a demolition operation. The question is that, in a small town, it denigrates the one who has a credit and who has a reputation for decades and decades of management, so it is much more complicated. Where's the silence? Mrs. Ubera, where's the silence? If we want to be a model member system, Osarides is a model system, it's exemplary. And the first thing you're interested in is crazy about it, and it's the department and it's fun it's the first people interested in it to be like that. Mrs Garrido, I'm Darpón ni el departameto there. They didn't lie here, because they didn't lie here, they explained with all their clarity all the information they had, he and his team, over and over again. That's not what you said here. "Why haven't you endured?", diozu. We would have endured enchanted; politically, we would have endured enchanted, but it is Darpón, and there it was Múgica, and it was Soto, who decided – despite the risk of reputational, personal wear that they could suffer – to step aside to protect the image of Osakidetza's public body, so that all this could be lowered, so that, week by week, there would be no initiatives here to ask for his resignation continuously. We would have endured perfectly, and, moreover, I say to him more: enchanted. We would have loved to be able to hold on and be supporting them, but they've decided to step aside. Hutsa Zinism, Hutsa Zinism ikusi izan duguna. Kapuscinski said that cynics are not good for journalism – hemen Kapuscinski behin eta berriro aipatu izan dut; uste dut Agirre anderea de la gehien aipatu izan duena – that cynics are not good for journalism – the reality is that journalism is full of cynics as well – but I would also say that cynics and cynics are not good for politics either, because it is an inhuman, impudent, dishonest attitude that takes us far away from what is our function, from what we should do. I think it would be good – I understand that you do not have to pay any tribute to him – but, of course, we do have to pay tribute to those who have made a personal effort. I just saw a movie, Green Book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote the original text of the EH Collector's proposal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 37; white, 0; Abstenations, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u25	So, not allowed original text. Third point in theme list: "The other proposition of the Parliamentary Society of the Euscals, in order to fight illegal occupation of the housing, and to secure the security of property, of the security of the people and of the goods of society. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs. Llanos, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u26	Gracias, señora presidenta. Good morning, everyone. We have discussed a lot in this plenary on housing, on the responsibility of the public authorities to give effect to this constitutionally recognized right. After many years in which the various governments did not commit it, a law was finally passed in the last legislature: the Housing Act. Although I already said, at the time, that this Housing Act was necessary and we had demanded it on many occasions, it was not enough any law and, in fact, many of the articles of that Housing Act remain undeveloped. When the law was debated, I made it clear that in the law, what was a responsibility of the public authorities – ensuring the effectiveness of the right to housing through a sufficient public park – was transferred to the private sphere, which could be confiscated, for example by imposing forced rent, thereby violating their right to private property. However, the biggest violation of private property is with the illegal occupation of housing. The occupation of housing is a matter of concern to Spanish society and Basque society, because it violates the right to private property, because it seriously affects neighbourly coexistence and because it seriously endangers the security of people and property. And it is that, along with the occupation, which already means, as we say, a violation of the right to property, we also see another set of annexed issues, issues that also happen in Euskadi: there are illegal connections of water, gas and light, which causes risks not only to the occupying families, but to the whole environment. We have more distant examples of this, such as the tragedy that happened in the Sant Roc neighborhood of Badalona, with a fire with three dead and 29 injured, due to the manipulation of the electrical picture of a house by those who lived irregularly in it; or closer, when this summer, for example, in Aretxabaleta, on floors of the Ensanche 21 Society of Vitoria, one person died, and last November the okupas were ordered to be evicted by the City Hall. According to Etxebizitza – that is, not only from the People's Party we talk about the occupation; also from here we talk about it – it is estimated that in Spain there are more than 87,000 illegally occupied dwellings, according to the Cerdà Institute, although other sources raise it to 100,000. As an example, in the Community of Madrid, according to data from the Government delegation, in September last year it had illegally occupied 4,472 housing units. By 2017, police actions related to housing occupancy had grown by 6% compared to the previous year. It is true that Madrid and Catalonia are the communities with the most illegally occupied homes, but in Euskadi we are also not strangers to this phenomenon of occupation, and it is a phenomenon that is beginning to worry. And it's especially worrying, as I said, here in Vitoria. In Vitoria, houses in the historic centre are being illegally occupied, and on many occasions occupied houses are owned by public institutions. And, as I was saying, we have palm cases. We have in Vitoria the largest okupa neighborhood in Spain, Errekaleor, a neighborhood that, in the plan that was carried out in the previous legislature, was evicted for its destruction, because they were infra-victims, they were houses that presented structural risks, and thus declared it a report prepared by the city council itself, report that, curiously, has not come to have consequences; report that, curiously, it has been kept in a drawer, and it was preferred to look elsewhere. And the same thing happens in Vitoria in Olarizu, in Aretxabaleta, in Ciudad Jardín... It is that in Vitoria there is even an office of the occupation; there are signs in lighthouses that inform where that office is, which tell what steps to follow to illegally occupy a house. And that's there, and no one does anything, and no public authority gets the shame of consenting to such a thing. In February we also knew, for example, that a young girl from Bilbao had not been able to access her social rental apartment because she had an okupa inside. He who was in need, who needed housing, and therefore was awarded a social rental housing, could not access it because, when he went to access, in exercise of his right recognized by an institution, he had an okupa inside. The public rental park is not enough. For this reason, the public authorities must act firmly and that (...) they have to go to instruments, such as Bizigune or ASAP, in order to have more public housing for rent. That is why, as I say, in the face of illegal occupation, we must act decisively. As he said, Etxebizitza himself shows that for the public administrations the occupations of his housing involve costs of management, but also of political credibility, and situations of permanent crisis because he is unable to meet the demanding demands of the equal people with needs of access to public housing. In addition, the occupant's profile is changing. Not only do we find families without resources; there are people who occupy for purposes other than housing. But in addition, organized mafias have appeared, who have seen a quick, easy and profitable business niche in the illegal occupation of homes. Thus, they track the cities in search of empty dwellings; they check the window signs, press announcements...; etc. This creates a new market, a black market, in which the mafias occupy the house and are awarded to third parties for a price that, obviously, is not a market price, thus creating a second generation of okupas, which, after paying the "rent", occupy the house or subbalky it in turn, creating a tremendous vicious circle. Other mafias pursue, by occupying homes, purposes related to their usual areas of business and use them as free floors for drug trafficking or other illegal activities. For this reason, despite the fact that there has been a change in 2018 against the illegal occupation of housing, the problem continues to grow, because, as I say, the mafias have found a niche of business that they are not willing to lose, because, as I say, they re-quile them to other okupas or use them for criminal activities. Thus, Bilbao The Old is the place that, according to the City Council, they would turn into the Soho It is true, as I said, that the new Law 5/2018 establishes mechanisms to speed up the process. This rule protects individuals and public administrations in order to recover social housing and to be able to use it for their real purpose, which is nothing other than to provide persons who need it with housing, i.e. those who are on the official complainant's lists with criteria of preference and criteria of legality. This law, however, does not include financial institutions or investment funds and promoters. And, in these homes, the mafias still have a business niche, and these homes continue to give living problems to the neighbors. For this reason, the People's Party proposed a bill to be proposed in the Congress of Deputies, containing anti-okupa pioneering measures. What measures are laid down in this proposal? It is clearly defined for the first time what illegal occupation is. Having that definition already will have beneficial consequences with a view to implementing the rest of the legislation. Such a definition would be the possession or enjoyment of a home or other property without payment, rent, or tolerance of the real owner or owner. A rule is introduced whereby an illegally occupied property cannot be considered a dwelling or domicile, so that illegal okupas do not enjoy the same protection as those who buy a home or live on a flat paying their rent. Also, the public authority or its agents may vacate occupied dwellings within 12 hours without waiting months. This law proposed by the People's Party also strengthens legal measures that already exist: it reinforces the crime of usurpation, raising the penalties imposed on it; it expedites the criminal process to try this type of crime; and it expands the reform of civil proceedings, approved, as it said, in June 2018, so that legal persons who own houses can exercise their right with the same agility as natural persons when recovering possession of illegally occupied houses. This measure also contributes to improving coexistence in the communities of owners in which there are houses whose owners are legal persons, a reason, as I said, for which they are elected for illegal occupation, because their eviction is much more difficult than when the owners are either a public administration or a private individual. It also strengthens the means available to the community of owners for the sake of neighbourly coexistence, allowing for the prevention of occupation, with measures such as closing the entrance door for greater security, and being able to combat incivic conduct, by being able to go to authority when illegal occupants carry out prohibited, harassed, incivic or unhealthy activities, amending the Horizontal Property Act for this purpose. The new rule would also consider registration in the municipal register invalid when the person attempting to register is an illegal okupa. Such registration would not give rights and could be automatically cancelled at the request of the rightful owner or owner, thereby amending the Local Regime Bases Act. To make it very clear, this law is not to regulate either mortgage evictions or leases. We do not want to regulate with this law the so-called "precarious", that is, when a person was rented or had a legal title to live on one floor, and this one ends, and remains in place, because in this case the procedure to be applied will be another. Nor are we regulating mortgage evictions. What is intended is to fight against illegal occupation, against what is a crime, to look where it is looked at. We want the right to private property to be protected, not to mention the social role and security in living together. And, as we say, and we want to insist, we do not want to confuse this fight against a form of crime, against the illegalities of occupation, with situations of social vulnerability or social exclusion on the grounds of housing, or with the protection of families who are in a situation of social emergency, because, in order to achieve that protection, the People's Party has already put in place measures just to gain access to the Government. Since 2012, legal reforms to support and protect vulnerable families or the most disadvantaged families have been launched. Among the first measures, it was approved, I would like to recall, on an exceptional and temporary basis, the suspension of the launch on habitual and especially vulnerable collective housing, through the Royal Decree Law 27/2012, a royal decree law that was approved and processed as a draft law, which gave rise to the adoption of Law 1/2013, of measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors, debt restructuring and social rental. Subsequently, Royal Decree 6/2012 also established urgent measures for the protection of unresourced mortgage debtors, establishing a code of good practice for the viable restructuring of mortgage-guarantee debt on habitual housing. Finally, Royal Decree Law 5/2017 was adopted, amending the previous Decree 6/2012, introducing more measures to strengthen the protection of mortgage debtors, debt restructuring and social rental. And, in addition, there have been, throughout the governments of the People's Party, different housing plans, with support from 2012 to 2018. Therefore, we insist, we do not want to confuse what is a crime – I repeat – the illegal occupation of a home, with the protection of those in vulnerable situations who need access to a home. This law, whose support we are proposing today, would bring with it a strengthening of the current legal framework, introducing new measures. As I say, definition of illegal occupation of real estate, that it does not have the consideration of residence and domicile, and that the police can evict within 12 hours. And it would bring with it, as I have also said, the amendment of six laws: the Organic Law of the Criminal Code, the Law on Horizontal Property, the Law on the Jury, the Law on Civil Prosecution, the Law on Criminal Prosecution and the Law on Local Regulators. We all carry rights and obligations, and we are all subject to legal codes, which we must respect. We have in Euskadi many people who demand a home every day; we have thousands of applicants registered in Etxebide who need a home for rent. Fighting illegal occupation is an instrument, in addition to ensuring respect for the law, which in democracy is essential, to guarantee legal access to housing for those who really need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u27	Thank you, Miss Llanos. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. Together, Poedemus. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u28	Good morning, head of the table. Congressmen, good morning to all. This proposal has made me many doubts. I don't know where I am, in a myth or parliamentary PP campaign. I don't know where I am. Proposamen Honek ez god Jaurlaritzari ezer eskatzen, ezta Espainiako Gobernuari edo Kongresuari era. Proposamen honekin, Alderdi Popularrak Kongresuan aurkeztutako lege bati Kongresuko taldeek aldeko boza ematea eskatzen da. "Parliament's innovation", I think that's what we're witnessing. Don't you have anything else to bring to the Basque Parliament? Is there nothing more to ask the groups of the Congress of Deputies to vote in favour of a bill? I imagine that the current situation of Congress will also have expired; I do not know whether one can vote in the Permanent Chamber. In any case, the vote of Unidad Podemos would be no. And it wasn't going to start like this, but you have reported – I don't know – a lot of decrees and measures that the People's Party government had taken to prevent evictions. 2018, record: 70,000. With all those measures from the People's Party... All these measures worked from milk. But, well, there is no doubt that housing is a problem, and we have brought it to this Parliament. It is one of the main problems of Basques and Basques, of youth. It is a problem that fills the vital precariousness that our society has; the precariousness of work that is aggravated, above, with the prices of rent, with the prices of housing; the precariousness that surrounds the right to have independent life projects. That's the problem with housing. If you don't know, we're going to get some data: 66,000 applicants for sheltered housing; 75,000 people who say they need to change housing; the average age to emancipate in Euskadi, over 30, when the average in Europe is 26; more than 20,000 empty manageable housing. You don't say anything about this. And the lords of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, with their impassioned passivity in the government, are allowing these houses not to be mobilized. The average rental income in Euskadi has already exceeded 1,000 euros. You don't say anything about that either. Over 1,000 euros! Who can afford that? 1,229.60 in Gipuzkoa. Not a word from the People's Party about that. The number of evictions in Euskadi in the second quarter of 2018, evictions, evictions, increased by 8 %. Nor does the People's Party say anything about that. And in front of this, in front of the rent, the evictions, you come here to divert the centrality of the problem. They don't talk, they don't say anything, about people being thrown out of their homes, people who can't pay rent, because they can't, because they have precarious jobs. Or they can't emancipate young people from our country. To address in a demagogic, populist way, a reality that the Basque Government... I don't know, you quoted Etxebizitza; I don't know which body she was referring to, but, look, the Basque Housing Observatory, February 18, 2019: "In Euskadi, this problem – the one you talk about the occupations – has been simply irrelevant." That is what the Basque Government says about this. You are talking about Spain and, well, as they would have nothing else to bring in, they have put this here, but in Spain it may be a reality, but right now, here, the Basque Government says it is irrelevant; the Basque Government, not Elkarrekin Podemos. And in the Spanish state, 75% of the illegally occupied dwellings – let's put it this way – are occupied by non-controversial people, and derived from cases of extreme need. You have to empathize a little to see why these people are occupying those homes. And that 75% is by necessity, which is not by vice. More than 67,000 families are forced to be in this situation. How about, again, the People's Party criminalizing poverty, which is what you, with beautiful words and in a very quiet tone, have accomplished with this initiative. That's what that initiative says in the background. Criminalizing poverty, that's what you're doing again. In addition, an initiative that I believe we have with it many doubts, legal doubts, because it is an initiative that I believe is unconstitutional, and I say this because, article 18.2 of the Spanish Constitution: "The domicile is inviolable. No entry or registration may be made in it without the consent of the holder or judicial decision, except in the case of flagrante delicto". And that doesn't marry the police, which is what you propose in that initiative, go there and evict in 24 hours an alleged occupation. What they do is propaganda; that's what they're doing, propaganda, because they're afraid of that competitor for the extreme right that's come out of them. Because, in addition, the latest reform of the LEC, which you believe you cited, on July 2, 2018, makes it easier for judges to order this eviction within five days. That is the difference between a rule of law – judges determine – and a police state, which is what you are determining. You might want to listen to Mr. Semper's words last week about the police. And they also forget the social role of housing. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated that the right to private property is also bounded by the right to the social role of housing. Article 33 of the Spanish Constitution: "The social function of these rights shall define its content". Moreover, speculation about housing is something that is also explicitly prohibited in the Constitution, although it hurts them, but, look, it is a conquest that is still maintained, even if it is not fulfilled, but it is. Article 47: regulating land use in accordance with the general interest to prevent speculation." That is also in the Constitution, and you have said nothing. And then, about the Okupas and the Mafias, he gave the data on what's there. The law protects private owners of such situations. What you don't protect, and that's what hurts you and that's why you're bringing this, it's vulture funds, banks and real estate; those are the ones that don't protect them, and that's the key to the matter. It has already been debated – you can read the minutes of the Congress of Deputies – and it has already been debated, and the arguments of the PP and Citizens are there on the table. You are not concerned about private owners; you are concerned about the interests of investment funds and vulture funds. These are the real ukupas: the vulture backgrounds that are keeping the homes of everyone. Does Blackstone ring a bell? If not, ask Mrs. Ana Botella, militant of her party, who sold thousands of public homes at a balance price. And you know what happened after that? Do you know what happened after you sold public housing at a sale price? That increased almost 50% the rent – oh, surprise!, too. The housing policy of the People's Party. Do you know that tomorrow there is an eviction in a VPO in Donostia? Housing, owned by that fund. You didn't say anything, you didn't say anything about it. The People's Party hasn't said any of that. Are you going to present any initiative with that eviction tomorrow on public ground? Gentlemen of the Government, Mr Arriola, Mr Erkoreka, gentlemen of the PNV, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, are you going to prevent tomorrow's eviction? A eviction from a family that has already paid, in addition, what it owed. From a public floor that is ceded. Are they going to stop it? I believe that this is central today, that tomorrow there will be no eviction in Euskadi, and, moreover, in Donostia, a city that has declared itself "a city without evictions". That's why, from Elkarrekin we can make the amendment. Nor has the People's Party called us, nor has there been any interest in agreeing. That's why I'm in an act and a propaganda proposition. The only thing that needs to be done here is to guarantee the subjective right to housing. That is what needs to be done and what this Government is not doing because of its paralysis and slowness. And also modify that Urban Leases Act, which has not been modified everything that had to be amended to regulate rental prices. That is the crux of the matter; that is the urgency that affects Basque society: the guarantee that there will be a decent home for everyone; that no one will be thrown out of their home; that everyone will be entitled to a decent roof; that rents will be affordable, and – yes, we say it and we will continue to fight from Elkarrekin We can, from the United We can, in Congress too, so that this Urban Leasing Act will finally limit rent prices – that we will put a roof on this escalating of real estate speculation that we have in this country. And we are not going to allow neither the slightest triquiñuela, nor the slightest populist action that diverts attention, nor the slightest electoralist, demagogic, populist game and, moreover, without rigour that you are carrying out today. Because we are, on this issue of housing, facing one of the biggest problems affecting Basque society, and, therefore, we demand that we act accordingly, with the seriousness and rigour that the issue deserves. And, finally, since it's Poetry Day "For if they didn't know," as S.A. (Alkoholika Society) sings, "I had the misfortune of not seeing them long ago," S.A. made us blush that "all this stinks; this smells very bad, with the empty floors in the city." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u29	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u30	Thank you, ma'am. I did not intend to start my speech this way, but I will begin by making two requests to Mr Martínez. The first: if you want to bring us poetry, please bring us true poetry; do not bring us what has brought us. And second: when you talk about demagogy, populism, rallies, electoralism..., I would recommend that, before you say so, you review your interventions so as not to fall into the mistakes that you have fallen into today and not to do exactly what you denounced of others. In any case, I am left with a sentence that you said at the beginning of your speech. He said, "Housing is a problem." Look, where you see a problem we see a right. For us, housing is not a problem; it is a right that we must guarantee. That is why we, among other things, are going to vote against the proposal put forward by the People's Party, as we also did with the bill that at the time registered this same party in the Congress of Deputies. The latest amendment to what the People's Party tabled a few months ago in the Congress of Deputies came through Law 5/2018. On that occasion we also voted against, after having tabled an important number of amendments, which were of course rejected by the People's Party itself. Through this amendment, the only thing that is established is procedural measures. There is no solution, there is no object that leads us to tackle, to solve, a social problem that, by the way, has increased, as Mr Martínez said, in 2016, with a very important resounding, with record figures in cities, such as – by the way – Barcelona, ruled not precisely by the People's Party or by the Socialist Party in 2016. The Socialists, therefore, reject this amendment, just as, as I have said, we reject the bill put forward by the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies. Why? Because we refuse to double criminalize people without resources, people who do not currently have housing alternatives to access decent housing. The solution is not to establish criminal measures, civil measures; it is to protect the right to housing, it is to ensure the intervention of social services in all situations where there is a risk or existence of social vulnerability. That must be the goal, that must be the commitment of every government to tackle that problem. Should the occupation be combated? Of course, occupation must be combated. The occupation must be combated in all cases, especially by dealing with the mafias who are being misused and taking advantage of the people who have the least resources. Of course, the occupation must be curtailed. But, look!, the goal of the People's Party does not seem to be to tackle the occupation alone and exclusively in the case of the mafias. It seems that these proposals that the People's Party is bringing have only one object: to create a feeling, a climate of citizen insecurity that, obviously, at the moment, does not exist, let alone in the tone, at the level that you are bringing us here. Therefore, the proposals bring only a criminal point of view, a point of view which, as Mr Martínez also said, shows that his model of society is a model, in many cases not social, but police. Therefore, we do not bet on such measures. The ultimate purpose of any legal proposal, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, any ultimate purpose of legal proposals relating to housing should be no other than to guarantee decent housing for all and for all. It is therefore necessary to define the object to be protected: goods or persons. Of course, first people. People first. This does not mean that property should not then be protected, but, above all and above all, the first ones we must protect are people, avoiding vulnerability. We are therefore faced with a proposal for a law which you, as a disciplined person who I have, have brought to this House in accordance with the mandate of your colleagues in Madrid, but which, in fact, has a serious constitutional deficit, because there are five points, five issues, which directly violate what our Constitution establishes. First, it limits the inviolability of the domicile by eliminating the protection of residence or domicile of the illegal occupant "before the action of the public authority or its agents", that is, by mere police action and without the intervention of a judge. Secondly, because it sets 24 hours for such non-judicial eviction of the property if the occupant does not accredit the legal title by which he is in the property, but does not specify who determines the validity of this legal title, let alone says that it is the judicial authority. Third, because a non-judicial preventive eviction is established, and the eviction is then the one who has to go to the judge if he considers the measure to be unfair, something absolutely absurd. Fourthly, because the communities of owners will be able to go to the police without going to court to promote the cessation of what they consider to be prohibited conduct or activities. It is not specified, in any case, that any judicial authority value to be involved in such prohibited conduct or activities. And fifth, because it establishes the lowering of the standard of an occupier ex officio by the council or at the instance of the owner, without adding any more requirements, as a court ruling that there has been an occupation. Therefore, we are faced with a proposal for a law that is absolutely unconstitutional. 75% of the occupation is of non-controversial people, who have an extreme need for housing. In the face of poverty, you send the police; we put instruments at the service of those people to solve their situation of vulnerability or extreme poverty. Thanks to the People's Party, most of the occupations are solved by the fast track, by the civil route, without any kind of solution, without any kind of housing alternative. On the street, no mediation. "You're sent to the police, and you're out of here." That's not protecting people. That's your model, just antagonistic to ours, Mrs. Llanos. And in Euskadi? Yes, we are working, and we are working well, we are working with actions from the Government that demonstrate our commitment to people. First, by drafting a decree guaranteeing the subjective right to housing; with a legal system, with a public system, with a transparent system; with instruments; with entities such as Etxebide, such as Alokabide; with measures, with programmes such as Bizigune; with agreements with the municipalities to place on the social rental market housing belonging to municipalities, to various entities, to increase the public park intended for this purpose; with protocols of intervention, through the agreement signed between Eudel, the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and the Basque Government. In short, I believe that in Euskadi the percentage, the level of illegal housing occupancy, is not precisely that of other autonomous communities, that of other places. I believe that here, fortunately, we are living in an infinitely different situation, thanks, among other things, to the fact that this Government is committed to its citizens and its citizens to dealing with situations of risk, vulnerability and poverty. So, in front of the mobs, no doubt. The strength of the rule of law in dealing with social problems. To housing problems, to problems that people may have because they do not have resources, no doubt, political solutions that end inequality, social exclusion and designating what we understand to be a right, not a problem, that is a decent housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u31	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u32	Good afternoon. Starting with the end, and so that I do not forget, Mr Andueza, being basically in agreement with the tone and orientation of his speech, it would not be too much to remember that the Basque Housing Act was passed in 2015 and that we have some fundamental decrees that have not yet been developed. I also refer to the words of the Deputy Housing Adviser himself, in a recent opinion article, in which he said that we have the possibility of mobilizing at least more than 20,000 housing units through the law. With this, I am not going to say that we are not working, but obviously we are working with less haste or less urgency than I think we should. Then, in effect, you link the issues of occupation with the issues of poverty and housing vulnerability, for we must hurry to develop all that so that the problem is minimized. Having said that – and I am going to the original proposal – I believe that today you have not come to ask for any kind of support, despite the fact that the two points of your proposal speak of supporting a law that you have presented in Madrid. It doesn't make much sense. We are talking about a bill, we are talking about the dissolved Courts, in this forum, before a legislature that has some housing competences that is developing. Moreover, it is very funny that you have presented this here and in the City Hall of Gasteiz. They have not gone to present it to the general meetings on any side, or to the rest of the municipalities of the rest of the capitals of the Autonomous Community. What is clear, then, is that what you are coming today is to mark a political position, to embarrass a playing field before the elections, and that is precisely what you have done, albeit with a much nicer tone than your proposal is. You seek to reinforce an electoral campaign that is already very marked; you try to tension with many lies on the bottom; you try to generate alarm, as you have already been told; you try to confront the last with the penultimate ones, and I think it is time to tell you four things. In addition to announcing that we are going to vote, of course, with a strong no to what you are proposing, let me say that your proposal today, like the law you have proposed in Madrid, is infamous. It is infamous because both here today, and in the proposal they put forward in writing, and in which it was presented in Madrid, you speak with a directly war terminology. You speak of combat, you speak of attacks, you speak of mafia, you speak of alarm and you link occupation with criminal activities. And in that connection and in that scenario of war that you are trying to present to us, what you do is to pretend to criminalize, to imprison – because you also propose it –, to remove from the table thousands of people who are in vulnerability, thousands of people who are being expelled, many of their homes, many more from the market to which they cannot access, and from which this small percentage of people who end up occupying a house that is not theirs is largely nourished. Some of them – I say – are trying to find an emergency solution, which the system does not provide, fails to provide, and that is the real drama below, and that is, in fact, what it deserves, first of all, attention both here and anywhere else. He has already been told: the Spanish State is again in record numbers of eviction. And you can't separate the subject. You cannot say that you come here to talk about criminal issues that have nothing to do with the issue of housing, the problem of housing; the occupation is narrow and mainly linked to the expulsion from the market of broad layers of our society. And the profile you've drawn isn't right; it's a big lie that you're putting all this together. You have drawn a profile of "mafioso delinquent" – let's leave it there, in two words – but it turns out that the profiles of the occupation are very different, and some data has already been given. 75% of the reason for the occupation is lack of resources. 70% of the occupation comes from families, and half of them have minor children in their care. Sixty per cent have asked for social housing. That is the profile of the person who is occupying in the Spanish state. But not only that, but they are occupying homes that, in 82% of cases, are homes owned by large owners, or either large banks, or investment funds – many times vulture investment funds. So, according to you, if we tie up the two things you bring here, what we have to do is fight the people who are expelled from the market, for committing an attack, and we have to change a lot of laws to get them to jail. From what I see, its main emergency housing solution is prison, and, moreover, preventing the registration of many people, which is the basis on which to exercise most of the rights. You, in your unconstitutional proposal, intend to change, as you have already said, six laws – up to six laws! – to introduce these new reinforcement measures that you want to introduce: the Law of the Jury Court; the Civil Prosecution Act, which has just been amended – and now I am talking about it – the Law on Horizontal Property; the Law on Local Regime Bases, so that thousands of people can be left without registration; the Criminal Code, to make criminal acts that are not now, and the Criminal Prosecution Act, so that thousands of people can be sent to jail. This is your emergency housing solution. And not only that, but they also come to reinforce, they come to grind, something that is already coming from afar and that got much worse as a result of the approval of the amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act, Law 5/2018 – by the way, it would be very good for the PNV to come down and explain why it voted in favour of that law – the law known as the "law of express eviction". In that law, in some ways, it implicitly recognized what I am saying, because the first words of the preamble say exactly the following: "As a result of the complex and harsh socio-economic reality, there has been a considerable number of evictions in recent years of people and families in a situation of economic vulnerability and residential exclusion." That's how the illegal housing change begins; it's curious that it starts like this. He goes on to say: "Almost simultaneously (...) phenomena of premeditated illegal occupation have also appeared...". And here it is very curious because it unlinks it; it says: "...and in most cases there is no connection with situations of extreme need". Which is a blatant lie. Well, well, you supported this – of course, as I say, with Citizens and the PNV – and what you did was give an express solution so that there could be quick evictions and yet you forgot two very important things. One is that they did not provide housing solutions to people and families in vulnerable situations, and the most they do is to ask that the actions of the administrations be coordinated so that, if there are people who are occupying – which is an implicit recognition that vulnerable people are occupying – if there are people who are occupying and are vulnerable, social services and so on. That is, what they do is they give high speed to the eviction, turning it into express eviction, and allow them to come as donkeys and from far away the housing solutions for the groups that are in vulnerability. But this law, this amendment of the law, had a problem, and the problem was, as has also been mentioned, that they were left out of these possible solutions. I mean, it included the private owners, it included the NGOs, it included the administrations, but what was left out for you is the bulk of the problem: that most of the housing that is being occupied in the Spanish state belongs to the banks and the investment funds, which were left out of this possibility of express eviction that came to run in about 20 days. Evidently, what you do is come to grind, come to generate an alarm, an exaggerated tension, about the subject we are dealing with. And what they do, by the way, is to put in article 2 of their law the key to all this. And it's that they expand the possibility of With this, what you do is really position yourself as the people you are, as the agents you are: people who come to guarantee is not the constitutional right to housing of the people, nor the subjective right to housing that we have established here by law, but what you come to do is to guarantee the right, or the supposed right, that has an investment fund, a large bank, so that you can unravel within 12 hours, with a kick in the door, to people who have needs. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u33	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u34	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good noon, everyone. Often, when we mark the position of the group, we look at the form or the content, or both. We don't claim any corrections at the present day, and it's not customary, because we generally introduce corrections to all the applications which are presented. But some of those who have spoken before me have said that we saw a point of absurdity in this other than Mrs. Llanos had presented to us. And I have to admit, in this discussion, that I have sometimes thought that we are in Congress of the Congress of the Congress of the Congress of Madrid, although, as we all know, elections are called, and there is no activity now. This is why I shall almost confine our group's position on this point into its form. I don't think it gives much to the housing police which we actually carry on in the Eucharins today, Mrs. Llanos, this proposal you've brought here. And I believe that, being a legal proposition introduced to Congress in Madrid, the Popular Party must be discussed there by its procedure. Each of our representatives will have occasion for discussion, to introduce corrections, to arrive at agreements, and to this or that Chamber, I believe, is the question of this subject. And therefore it is in your own right to ask for protection from the legislative, and also to consent to the political parties, without entering into the bosom of them, and without making a serious dispute, I do not see the logical. Therefore I advance that the position of our party will be rejected before your proposal. That's why, as I said, I don't want to put too much of myself into the contents, because I really don't think it's that, as I said before, I've said it's nothing to add or to transmit much to our housing police. We won't deny, however, that occupation is there, illegal occupation, in every case. And it has also been mentioned that this occupation is in some cases, in order to give some as well as a solution to certain wants. You mention mafia and their projections. And when I have looked at it a little, as I have observed in the preparation of this law, as a motive, or as a proposition of the same nature, you have introduced it into many townships from Asturia and from Cdizik, without changing a comma, I think it very different, as you have mentioned in Barzelon, Madrid, or here. And, really, this is Eusunian and at least he likes our team, and I think this is what we have to do: if we come here and discuss the affairs of our society, and, if we really want to find a solution for them, present them, at least, with some conformity to the situation we have in our territory. That's why I'm not really getting in the sideboard, I don't think it's worth it. If there's an opportunity to discuss your legal proposal in Madrid, we'd introduce our position there. I really don't think this is the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. We'll take the answers turn. Basque Popular. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Well, there's a phrase that says "live to see", and you have to live to see, because, Mr. Martinez, you talk about rallies, rallies, when you, here, come on, you've missed putting in there in the middle, in the bench, starting with the sign of Podemos behind and making scarecrows, because you've only missed that for the rallies. And he has used a term that, look, I, which I already have in politics, I'm very used to hearing, which is about the "criminalization of poverty". They always use it. That we call for social aid to be regulated, we are criminalizing poverty; that we call for an end to illegal occupation, we are criminalizing poverty... Because the defence of rights is a prerogative only of the left parties, exclusively. And you say I don't care about the house. Of course I'm worried! You have sought my support in initiatives you have presented here: for the development of the Housing Act, for rental solutions, for the development of decrees. You and EH Bildu, and we talked. It's just, here you tell me I didn't call you. What am I going to call it if it's two different issues! You resubmit that initiative, and I would probably submit amendments, and we could either agree on it, or we would approve it directly, without the need for amendments. But these are two different issues. And what can't be said is that because I'm talking about the illegal occupation..., which I've always defended as a crime, and that when a lawyer came here in a commission to consider just a little less than the criminals were the owners who wanted to recover a property, so I made him see it, not by anyone's mandate, but because I firmly believe it. And you're talking about the home being inviolable. Sure, when it's a home. But what happens, that a person who illegally occupies a home, immediately, because he says so, that is already his home? And does nothing have to be said by a public institution that owns that house or the individual that owns that house? Nothing to say? It's taken, installed, and from that moment on, you've agreed as you've agreed, it's your home. Precisely what is involved is that the law defines when a dwelling constitutes the domicile of a person, and, if it is the domicile, that domicile is inviolable, as provided for in the Constitution. And you're telling me why I'm asking you here? Well, then, because that measure affects laws that have to be amended in the Congress of Deputies. And for you illegal occupation is the housing solution. We are not going to make any demands, in that case, on the Basque Government or the municipalities to provide solutions to those who are in an exclusionary situation and to those whom the institutions have to guarantee that right to housing. No, we just say, "Occupy you illegally," and that's it. The Socialist Party, well, in the end has also given a small rally, but you were talking about not criminalizing the occupation and looking for housing alternatives. Well, that's what it's about. You have the responsibility, at this time, in the Basque Government to try to ensure that no one has to be illegally occupied a house, because if, in your opinion, the majority of those who occupy, in a very high percentage of those who occupy, is because they have a housing need, you are responsible for legally guaranteeing them that housing solution. To you, Mr. Otero, I appreciate the tone. As to whether they are unconstitutional or not, I believe that the Constitutional Court in Spain is already left, because you in this House, all the groups, have been set up as determinants of what is constitutional. Hearing someone from Bildu defend the Constitution and the unconstitutionality of certain measures... What I said to him: live to see, live to see. But, I here, of course, have given strokes of what the law would be, of the measures that the law would have. Obviously, I haven't specifically put them on. And if you have so much doubt, in case it comes to pass, listen, you go with all your hosts to the Constitutional Court, that it will be very graceful for Bildu to bring an appeal for unconstitutionality of a Spanish law and to be the defender of the constitutionality of Spain. I'll tell you what's funny, at least it's gonna do to him. But I'm telling you, I appreciate the tone. Basque Nationalist Party, come on, ambiguity. You have made a gala, let's go, totally, of "I don't get in the background," "see if I'm going to have to get wet," "see if I'm going to have to say what I think of illegal occupation"; "I stay in shape." I'll tell you again why I put it here to be said there, because that's where those laws have to be amended. I am glad that you have learned something, which can already be urged to the political groups in this House without the proposals being rejected. With other initiatives that the People's Party has put forward, the Bureau has not been so clear; they are now clear. And they don't refer to the bottom because, of course, to see if they have to get wet, how about the illegal occupation... Because what do you think of Mr. Urtaran? What do you think of Mr. Urtaran? As I told you, the largest Okupa neighborhood in Spain. What are you doing? Look somewhere else. In a building that the City Hall itself has said is at structural risk, that if something happens to those inside, the responsible will be the City Hall. And he does nothing; look elsewhere. Mr. Urtaran does nothing when a lady is put in front of him and tells him that he has a list of all the public dwellings that are unoccupied and that she and her family are going to occupy them all. And he does nothing, and he looks the other way. And here, here, what it is about is to take action, which has to be decided there...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u37	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u38	...and they must be said to be decided to put an end to that illegal occupation, to have instruments to put an end to the illegal occupation. Because, to those who have no resources, of course, from the institutions that you govern, give housing solutions. When this occupation is not done because there are no resources, because that is the solution: give them a house legally, not look elsewhere when they occupy a house. And those who occupy it for another guy, who exist them, and if they don't go to Bilbao, go to Bilbao the Old, and see what they do for many of the houses and what the neighbors think...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u39	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u40	I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u41	No, stop it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u42	Those who don't care if the property is public or a vulture fund, want it to end. What happens is that you prefer, and I say to you, to look elsewhere and not to pronounce on illegal occupation. And lastly...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u43	No, no, please come back next time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u44	Finally, it has also made me very graceful EH Bildu, to say...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u45	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u46	... that the Government of Spain has to give solutions to housing. But don't you want to be independent? Does the Government of Spain also have to solve housing problems? Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u47	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Together, Poedemus. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u48	Mrs. Llanos, read your initiative and what you say in Madrid, that the Criminal Prosecution Act has already been reformed, and talks about private owners, and gives five days... What you are proposing is a police state; with this, in 24 hours you can make an eviction without judicial authorization. We have explained it to him myself, perhaps wrong; Mr Andueza, afterward, too. He still doesn't understand. But it is the difference between a rule of law and a police state. Point. Individuals are protected: five days. I don't think it's crazy to do legal proceedings either. I mean, that's the debate. What you wanted to put aside is any reference to vulture funds. It has not made a reference –22,000 dwellings, at least –; not a single reference, not a single reference. And that is the true character of his initiative, far from defending the rights of individuals who can own property. And I have reviewed the initiatives you have made, and you have made a number of questions and requests for information, but not a single legislative initiative on housing in this legislature. Not one. Questions and requests, yes, but not a single initiative – I say this because you have said that the People's Party is going to take the lead in defending housing law. Not a single initiative in this legislature. And we have had a novelty on the part of Mr Andueza: he has been released today as a literary critic. He had for the replica a poetry, because, well, taking advantage of the day a little – and I ask the House for forgiveness and I ask Rafael Alberti also for reciting so badly what he wrote. Rafael Alberti made a poem called Desahucio
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u49	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u50	Thank you, ma'am. For, listen, he has given him literary taste; in the same way that I have criticized him before, for now I praise him, as it could not be otherwise. Mrs. Llanos, you were talking about rallies. Finally, I believe that, for my part, what I have brought have been objective realities, and I do not believe that in my last part of the speech I have given any rallies. I have put on the table the measures, the tools that this Government has to deal with a specific problem, which is the problem of occupation and the problem that some citizens may have in accessing decent housing. I put it on the table. And I do not think that is to give any rallies, but to recount, from the utmost objectivity, the work that this Government is doing in this regard. You used to say, "Act responsibly." Well, that's exactly what we're doing. That is probably why this is one of the autonomous communities with the lowest occupancy rate in the whole Spanish state, in the whole of Spain; therefore, something will have to be seen also by this Government in that this reality is also a positive reality for this Autonomous Community. I believe that, thanks to the law that we already have on the table approved in this Autonomous Community, we can deal with and we can put in place many actions to alleviate this problem, and I am convinced that we will soon also have the possibility of having more legal tools to implement policies that strengthen housing policies for social rent that is already being implemented, through agreements, through measures, through their policies, this government. And I link this to what Mr. Otero said. Well, I have expressed this here on other occasions, when we have dealt with housing issues, which, of course, are the first to have such decrees as soon as possible, because that will enable them to implement or strengthen policies that are already under way. Of course, logically, the rushes, from our point of view, are bad advisors, and what we want is to have those decrees with the maximum legal certainty possible. For what? So that then, for example, the lords of the People's Party do not arrive, as they did after the adoption of the Housing Law agreed between you and us, and put a remedy of unconstitutionality, and let us have those decrees stopped because these lords have been put in the head that this does not have sufficient legal guarantees. Things must be done in due course, with the utmost speed, but, of course, also with the legal guarantee that what is approved meets all the legal requirements that exist and that there are. This will allow us, among other things, not only to strengthen some policies, but to make responsible use, of course, of those 20,000 dwellings, which, for example, was mentioned in that press article by the vice-counsel, Mr Jáuregui. Little more, Mr. Martinez. Fortunately, the eviction you were talking about has been paralysed, among other things thanks to the action of the Government of Donostia-San Sebastián, in which the Socialist Party is involved; thanks to the General Councils, in which the Bureau and in which the Socialist Party's own joint group have also intervened; and, logically, also, thanks to the efforts that the Basque Government has been able to make. Therefore, our commitment remains there. He's always there. What I would have liked was for you to have voted in favour of the law that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which the Spanish Government presented in the Congress of Deputies, in order to be able, precisely, to alleviate some deficits that we dragged from the time of the People's Party Government. At the previous session in which we discussed this issue, I told him that, thanks to the "no" of the United Parliamentary Group We can, it was unfortunately avoided that many Spaniards had some benefits that I think would have been good for them. And today, as we are talking about the "day of...", today, precisely, is also World Puppet Day. I hope that in the future, when a socialist government takes such an initiative again, you will not be the puppet of the People's Party and will vote in favour of those things not happening again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u51	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. EHGG rep. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u52	I'll start all over again. Mr Andueza, I insist, there are 65,000 unsolved social housing files. You need to triple the current housing stock to everyone's satisfaction, and you tell me you're doing the right thing, in your step, and so on. I would rather say that it is difficult to carry out an advanced housing policy as a partner of a government that voted against the law, and that rather has the handbrake a little raised. So, the thing seems to be going more around than on the other hand, but, well, in any case, I encourage you to hurry as fast as possible. Mrs. Llanos, it's just that it's very serious what you're doing. You, in the law you propose, in the explanatory statement, etc., to me, not so much because I worry too much about the Spanish Constitution, but because, in the end, you bring here to debate a law that is going to be debated, in any case – well, we will see – in Madrid, and in the end what you are doing are some actions that are very serious. You have already been told about the inviolability of the home, which is something that is subject to protection, let's say. You – it's very curious – want to disassociate the possibility of being considered domicile, that is, the right of inviolability in that domicile to a person who is occupying it. And, for that, the reason they argue is that, although the consideration of domicile is a broad issue, it has some limitations. Do you know the example you set? Prison cell. You say that the inviolability of the home is limited, for example, when it comes to a prisoner. That's what you're trying to equate the occupation to. That's why it's very serious what you're doing. I'll tell you the more. You say that in some appearance here it has been spoken like it seems that the person who is delinquent is the person who intends to recover a home. Well, it could be. It can be occupied and delinquent, and it can be recovered and delinquent, of course. It depends on whether one is subject to the procedures or not. And some case has been analyzed, and you're going to have to analyze some more, because here, around the house, you only talk about a mafia, of those people who, for profit, are occupying housing blocks in Madrid, such, elsewhere..., but here there are more mafia. As soon as this has been looked at, there are more mobs here. There is another mafia who is acting, who are people who are allegedly acting, who are trying to vacate out of the proceedings and out of the law. So, you can own and you can delinquent, of course you can, trying to get a house back. To finish – because I am now talking a little bit about the third mafia, which I think is the mother of the lamb, the one behind all this – I want to say that you, I think, are the first drivers of the occupation. I mean, if there is a consensus here – and I think you could even enter into that consensus – that, in the question of occupation, the best antidote, the best limitation of occupation, is to have an effective housing policy that will make housing a social function, and that that right – in this case, here – be implemented subjective to the housing that we have all the people that we live in, you – and, above all, when you have been talking about Spain and, above all, with the roll of the absolute majority – what you have done is to prevent that path from being able to travel. You began by rejecting with your roll the million and a half signatures with which the law of the PAH, of the Platform of Affected Persons of the Mortgage, was endorsed; you have recently voted against the proposal of emergency housing law presented by Uniti Podemos; you voted against the Basque Housing Law; you, from the Government of Madrid, submitted the appeal to the Constitutional, and you have shown yourself – still not voted, but have shown yourself – against the last decree that has been put into effect in Madrid, of urgent measures in the area of housing and rent. That is to say, if you are against everything that you are trying to give a housing solution to the most vulnerable groups, for, of course, what we have to deduce is that you are acting in favour of other interests. And I am not going to end without referring to the last of the mafias, because this is a long-distance issue. This, I tell you, if there has been, after the outbreak of the real estate crisis, there has been about 600,000 evictions – that is, 600,000 people or families who have been left homeless – which is the basis, which is the humus on which the occupation is nourishing, is coming from political approaches that come from your party and for a long time. Or are you forgetting Aznar's laws of soil and land liberalization that were mixed with the credit bubble? That it ended as it ended, that it ended with hundreds of thousands of people on the street, with widespread impoverishment, with a precariousness of life. And, behind that, if you want to look at samples or chase mob samples, you just have to go around jails all over the Spanish state, where they are tens, and they're going to continue to be, hundreds of people directly or indirectly linked to your party. Don't you understand that these are the mafias that, mainly, have caused the problems that have come after? Look at your house. Look at your home and analyze your policy, and you will understand much better the problem of occupation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u53	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians. Mrs. la larse, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u54	The Chief of Parliament, with your permission from the seat to answer Mrs. Llanos. You have made me ambiguous, and it was by no means my intention, of course, to be ambiguous. And, in fact, when we have to position ourselves on any issue, we do so clearly. The only thing I have come to say to you is that I understand that this debate should not be raised here, not at least in the way you brought it. If you really care about the problem of the illegal occupation of housing in Euskadi – which is what we come here for, to talk about the issues that deal with us in Euskadi – then bring a non-law proposal, or the way you think, to talk about it. The only thing I have said to you is that we are not going to discuss the substance of the matter because we understand that the way in which you raised it was not the right one. And, on the occupation, since the parliamentary group of the PNV was already manifested in Madrid when the Law 5/2018, which has been mentioned, on the occupation was adopted. And, of course, if what you are trying to do is to broaden the assumptions on which we are going to act through "express eviction to housing" that can be owned by investment funds or banks, of course, there our position will be contrary, if you want us to mark our position in some way on that issue too. But ambiguity, absolutely nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote the original text of the Euskal Potula Group's proposal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 8; the opponents are 66; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u56	So, not allowed original text. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 45; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u57	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, concerning the real reach of justice which betrays the malxistic violence. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Ms. Arana, the representative of Potemus together, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u58	Yes, good morning. Ma'am, members of the legislature, chief officers. Elkarrekin Podemos has presented this initiative on real access to justice for those who denounce sexist violence, and we have reached a comprehensive agreement. We have been working since we came to this Parliament to respond to many of the challenges and needs we have as a society. And, on this occasion, and once again since we arrived here, as I said, we put justice and Machist violence at the centre of the debate. We emphasize the revictimizations that many women suffer when they come to justice. Today, once again, we can speak of agreement, of a broad and ambitious agreement, on an issue as important as real access to justice for those who denounce sexist violence. Eskerrik asko to all, because, no doubt, it is a great deal. Unfortunately, we have witnessed a considerable increase in reports of male-to-female violence by partner or ex-partner, and also of violence by strangers. This increase is corroborated by data from the judiciary, the Ertzaintza and the Office of the Prosecutor. During 2018, Euskadi registered a total of 5,640 complaints of gender-based violence, an increase of 8.6% over 2017. This means, more or less, that every hour and a half a woman denounces sexist violence, at least one woman is assaulted every hour and a half. And I say "at least" because all of us here know that that's not true, because, for every woman who denounces, there are many others who don't. So, at least In Euskadi we continue with institutions that should be prepared, not only to raise awareness or raise awareness, but also to provide an adequate response. And, to this day, we still do not give an adequate answer. This initiative represents a major step in the elimination of many of the revictimizations suffered by women victims of sexist violence. It is clear that this will be reversed if this initiative is carried out in its entirety and not kept in a drawer. As I said, I think this agreement is very important because it widens the way for the institutions, in this case the institution of Justice, to improve attention to victims of machista violence with short, medium and long-range measures; measures that seek to respond to immediate needs and also that seek deeper, deeper changes. All this is what we bring today with this agreement. First, the Basque Government is requested to revise the coordination protocols between the local police and the Ertzaintza with the Administration of Justice in order to unify criteria and improve the actions of the administrations in the care of machista violence, and, with these protocols, which also contrast with lawyers and prosecutors, as well as with workers in the social services and with persons involved in cases of machista violence. Secondly, that the Basque Government provide, throughout 2019 and 2020, specific training in sexist and gender-based violence to all staff working in the courts, i.e. to the judiciary, prosecutors, forensics, lawyers, psychologists, social workers, justice personnel, etc., in order to avoid revictimization or other obstacles to real access to justice. As you all know, the Ararteko, Emakunde, women judicial workers, prosecutors, etc. have on numerous occasions noted as worrying the attention that children who appear before our courts, whether as victims or witnesses, and also the attention that women victims receive, and indicate, among the aspects to be improved, the need to improve training, to provide concrete training, the content of which deals with gender-based violence and with minors exposed to violence, functional diversity, and foreigners of different backgrounds, and that it is imparted to all professional groups. So, with the fulfilment of this point, we will ensure greater awareness and better care for victims. At present, we are witnessing situations of helplessness in which many women find themselves with translators, as sometimes they do not literally translate what the assaulted person realizes because they do not have training in sexist violence and question their stories. So, with the third point that is approved in this initiative, we ensure that the next recruitment documents for the concertation of the interpreter service include the condition of specialization and compulsory training in gender, machist violence and interculturality, for the provision of service in the courts of gender violence. Fourthly, the Basque Government will provide care services to victims of sexist violence who depend on it for all the tools necessary to ensure that all information is adapted, accessible and inclusive, and to protect the privacy of women with functional diversity. Fifthly, an evaluation of facilities for the care of victims of violence and mixed courts will be carried out during 2019, and, once the report has been carried out, the necessary measures will be taken to ensure non-revictimization and quality care for all women, girls, boys and adolescents victims. In this way, we will end, once and for all, with those spaces where the victims and the alleged aggressors coincide, spaces where the children have to listen to tears and experiences of other violence, of other women with similar violence, and those of their own mother, where there is no privacy and the Data Protection Act is not respected. This is definitely going to be a big breakthrough. Sixthly, a study evaluation of the offices of the victim assistance service will be carried out, taking into account, inter alia, the suitability of these offices to be located near the courts, and the need for this service to always have professionals in psychology and social work, specialized in sexist violence. Seventhly, the comprehensive support service will be implemented, as part of the resizing of the victim care service. Eighth, the importance of continuing to work towards greater inter-agency coordination and networking is stressed, with the aim of expanding and strengthening all necessary measures to ensure comprehensive care for women and minors who are victims of male violence, and avoiding secondary victimization. Ninth, it will culminate in the process of revising and updating the convention for immediate legal assistance to victims of violence against women, domestic violence and sexual assault in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, with the law schools of the three historical territories. Finally, it is requested that the agreements reached on the basis of the motion discussed on 26 October 2017, submitted to the Committee on Labour and Justice, within a maximum of six months, be fully complied with the plan to improve access to justice, which was agreed unanimously, as well as that the agreements reached in the Committee on Labour and Justice, on 29 November 2017, based on the initiative on courts of violence against women, be complied with. The agreements, we always celebrate them, but, on this occasion, we are particularly pleased. We are pleased that, despite the differences, we have reached a very important agreement to improve attention to victims of machist violence. Elkarrekin We can, since it came to this Parliament, always work with the aim of developing and adopting feminist public policies that are built hand-in-hand, on the basis of active listening and real dialogue with the feminist movement, and in this agreement there is much of that. And it reflects many of the challenges that are being posed from the feminist agenda to give real solutions to citizenship and make possible the rights of all women, and also, of course, in justice. Today's agreement is a demonstration of how to make policy from dialogue and achieving plural, consensus agreements, out of focus and headlines that then remain in that, headlines. We hope that this agreement will not remain in the drawer of oblivion and that it will be fully implemented. I know that the intention of all the women who have participated and participated in this initiative and in this consensus wants it to be fulfilled, and I hope that it will also be done for those who are committed to putting it into operation. Women who decide to denounce cannot continue to be revictimized by the institution that has the responsibility to do justice, and this initiative means a great advance towards that less patriarchal and fairer justice. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u60	Good afternoon, all of you, and thank you, Your Honor. I want to start with something, with a reference to it. And what I want is to express our solidarity here with women and women from Oro. In the last few days we have seen some accusations, on the one hand what had happened at the Oxe, and on the other hand what was reported yesterday in the Oro. And they've got a fair connection to today's subject. Then this is our union for them, our support. And I also wish to mention their courage, because it must be daring to take such a resolution in the present situation, and to begin with in that difficult judicial method. These are the latest data, but there are a lot of data, and these are the obvious examples that have a direct connection with the subject today. The macho violence does not cease and costs the lives of thousands of women around the world, and it has also been something that everyone sees, and has forced societies to equip themselves with a number of elements to eradicate, prevent or mitigate its effects. And the truth is that what we're bringing here today is that we have to keep thinking about whether what we've put in place serves, has been enough and has the success that we think it should have when we put it into practice, because the scourge continues, the macho violence continues. That is why it seems important to me that in the agreements we have reached, we should reflect on them and propose that the protocols be revised, that we should propose assessments, that we should propose greater coordination and that we should propose training, because this will allow us to improve in order to put an end to it. Y, auque esto que la conciencición a frente, maltrato contra la violencia machysta es mayor, I think that wasn't enough. The feminist movement had to come out and say, "I believe you." We are mobilized in the presence of a justice which does not confess the truth of women; In the trial against Nagore Laffage's killer, the trial against the torturers of Sandra Barre. These are some examples, but we've been able to move. And we moved, too, on the 8th of March, just as the feminists of the feminist strike asked for it. To this patriarchal justice we again drew colors. He placed himself on the table, when women dare to accuse a labyrinth of justice, because it is a great concern for the poor health of justice, and the worst of all is that this want of health attacks a woman who has already been attacked once more, leaving them helpless, and sometimes strikes against them. Since we have entered into this legislature, we have several times worked on this subject, but at the present moment we have no results at all, but often the propositions proposed have been unanimously accepted. They're there, but they're not done yet, and we're here to ask for it again. Rules against macho violence have been published, published and types of crimes have been changed, but, despite all this, we are here with a proposal for a law, reiterating the compliance of others that we have agreed and that are still unfinished. In the opinion of Euskal Herria Bildu, and we have said this many times, everything about male-based violence must be considered a matter of government. When Euskal Herria Bildu proposed a feminist government, he also referred to this: it must be central, it must be a priority. And the question we are asking ourselves is whether this is the case in the Basque Government, whether this is a priority and whether this is the case, because we see that many of the initiatives take a long time to get started, and that worries me. And I am very concerned because, sometimes, it makes me think that we have to take a few more turns in our work, and above all, that we have to think about how to truly achieve the effectiveness of what we agree, and, if we repeat things again, it is effective. We do, I have no doubt, but I think that, on a subject of this nature and with this caliber, we need to insist more, and, at some point, we will have to take measures of another nature, not only to reiterate the agreements, but to make some other kind of proposals so that they really take shape, because it seems that everything remains the same. And recently, representatives of LAA made a scene at the Justice Committee, and all the things we were there that we heard and the things that we saw are still telling us that it is so. We saw so many things, and we made a proposal change, and after two years, it's all the same. And I don't just say that because I heard it, I'm talking about my personal experiences, and what I see when I go there is the same thing, the court just the same. The only thing that's changed is the machine, but everything else is exactly the same. Society is alarmed by macho violence. And this violence, apart from being a violation of fundamental human rights, is structural. That is why, as we understand it and the initiative reflects it, action plans must be put in place, justice must be made accessible to victims, police and judicial actions coordinated, all persons working in justice must be trained, and, above all, we must be provided with adequate resources. Investing in gender equality is important, but we also act by empowering ourselves. I'm going to finish with a phrase from La Furia, the singer rapera Nerea. Nerea says in a song "want to live", and does an exercise in pedagogy and an exercise in empowerment. And when Nerea says "want to live," she says she wants to live without violence, wants to live without aggression, wants to live in a world where her rights are respected. We think so, and in order to do this, we have to put these measures in place, but not only to put them in place, but to get them implemented. That is why we support the initiative, that is why we are happy – as Eukene said – with the result, and now we hope that the Government and the adviser to whom it is addressed will implement them immediately, as quickly as possible, before we have to come back here with a similar initiative. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u61	Thank you, madam. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u62	Good morning, everyone. I want to start my intervention... I am less poetic..., we are on the day of poetry, of literature, we intersperse quotes from important authors, rappers of fame and so on. I, yesterday, thinking about how we were going to intervene again on this subject without repeating the issue of data that was probably going to be done, or some other issues that we had already stated, I say: "Well, I am going to put out some fragments of some of the interventions that have already been made during this parliamentary term in this House when we have already dealt with this matter and that I think they reflect issues that I think are important." And I say to you: "It is an obligation of all public authorities to act, not only in cases where violence and this type of violence is detected, but also, decisively and effectively, in the educational, cultural and social fields. We believe that education and prevention are key to the eradication of this social scourge." We also said: "We must work on prevention and support for victims, provide this service, provide it well, and provide it on the basis of the interests and rights of victims, not the other way around. On the basis of this, and not on the basis of the needs of the premises, not on the basis of the needs of the officials, not on the basis of the judicial needs. Based on the interest of the victims, because it is to satisfy that interest, to make their rights move forward. We will also work and insist that the plan has a budget allocation, because if it is not supported by a budget allocation, no plan can be carried out." We were also talking about intersectionality. They are fragments of speeches that, surely, those who have made them have identified with them, but which could be from any of the spokespersons that we intervene in this matter, because, when we talk about macho violence from the perspective of the women victims, the speech is shared, and we know and verbalize that as important as the content of what we agree today, it is also essential that this Parliament approves it in the form of unanimity – "aho batez", which the president will then say –. I am grateful for the tone that has been used in advance by the speakers who have spoken, so that we can deal with this subject again from this Parliament. It is a shared diagnosis and commitment to the active promotion of equality policies: prevention, detection, care, protection and social awareness. All aspects which must have and have a cross-cutting presence in public policies carried out by the Basque Government. It is under this prism, and not from another, from which the policies of the Department of Justice in the fight against macho violence are being implemented. And it is also under this very prism where the compromise agreement is marked that we have been able to sign the Socialist, Nationalist, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu groups, and that we will surely then also support the People's Party, and in which we – yes, it is true, we again – have to continue to make progress on certain issues. It was previously said that we need to reflect on whether what we have put in place serves and whether we need to continue to move forward or change. That has to do with the evaluation policies of the services that are being implemented, and we share that. We share it, I believe that the whole parliamentary arc, and that is why we have a relatively easy way of reaching agreements on this matter. Eleven are the issues on which we have focused. They have been told by Elkarrekin's spokesman Podemos, but I will highlight some issues. In the first term of the transaction, we call for the revision of the protocols for coordination between the local police and the Ertzaintza with the Administration of Justice. As we all know, this work is carried out both in the inter-institutional and interdepartmental committee and in the follow-up committee of the second institutional agreement for improving the care of women victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault. Also in the coordination commissions against gender-based violence that have been re-launched at provincial hearings, which have been formed in the development of one of the measures envisaged in the state pact against gender-based violence. That the revision and improvement of the tools for the protection and care of victims of violence is a priority that goes through the action of the Basque Government – someone asked him – I think we were able to see it very recently in a visit made by the parliamentary groups to Ertzain-etxea. I believe I can say, without mistake, that the verification we were able to make of the improvements in the Bortxa protection system or the knowledge of the functioning of Satiti support that the fight against gender-based violence is an occupation and is a concern of the Basque Government as a whole, as is an occupation and a concern of this parliamentary arc. A second aspect in which we know and agree that we must continue to insist is the specific training on gender-based violence of all staff working in the courts. And I think that the prism has turned in the formation of the offer of courses: already since 2018 it is turned from a training oriented to the procedural legal knowledge of the matter towards a cross-sectional knowledge of gender violence, of the treatment with victims and aggressors, as well as the emotional affection of the process in the interveners. Now we will have to overcome what we were told not long ago in that appearance, how we got the commitment of that training by the officials, who also have other issues that we will have to go through, because, if we make an offer that is not then assumed by the staff, then we also have some dysfunction there. That is why we believe that training should be promoted and provided among all the operators of justice, and that is where we find the judiciary, the Prosecutor's Office, lawyers and lawyers, the Prosecutor's Office, etc. We know that it is a training that is already possible from the Department of Justice through various ways agreed with judges, or with the judiciary, or with schools, but we want a firm commitment from everyone to the training of those involved in the judicial process, and that commitment must be bidirectional. It is no good that there is only one offer if there is no commitment on the part of the rest of the operators as well. Sometimes we do it with the subject of compulsoryity. The lawyers and prosecutors are very clear because, in order to be able to be in the turn of gender violence, we have an initial training and a continuous training, which, if we do not do it, implies the expulsion of that turn. We also focus – and I think it is important – on a service that is essential for specialized and personalized care for victims of male violence, and it is the victim care service. Yesterday we also agreed in the Committee on Labour and Justice, and also unanimously, that a new location of this service is necessary. It is a move that has been under way for some time now by the Department of Labour and Justice and that will allow us two things that are also important to us. On the one hand, the improvement of the conditions of the staff currently providing two services: the victim care service and the Basque penalty management service. And, on the other hand, it will allow the expansion of that second service, to increase from 25 to 40 people on the staff. Today, therefore, in this transaction, we call for an evaluation of the facilities needed for the victim care service, so that any improvements that are considered appropriate for better care for women, girls, boys and adolescents who are victims of sexist violence can be implemented and implemented in this new application that must be given to that service. Now, what would be desirable, and which I also believe is shared, is that this assessment is carried out from a basic prism, which must be the prism of public service, and not from the prism of demands or labour pressures that can spell out that fundamental interest that must move us, which is assistance and care, which must guide us in this performance and in the provision of this service. Therefore, with this central interest in making this the fundamental prism of our work, we call for the implementation of the comprehensive accompaniment service that is already being processed from the Department of Labour and Justice. It is true that from the beginning until the end, then, there is a time that sometimes despairs, but it is true that the journey and the way we take, we believe it is the right way. With this service, it is intended that the victim who has to go to the court will do so in the best possible conditions to avoid secondary victimization, that he will be provided with tools to deal with the process with guarantees, with detailed information, with assistance, with communication, with socialization of the wait that occurs, with management of the protocols of access to the courts and with a resolution of the unexpected with a reference person. That is, what we have said here many times: that you feel accompanied and that you feel protected. And that is why we want to move forward within this proposal in the concept of "therapeutic companionship" – we have already talked about it on other occasions as well. We have talked about inter-institutional coordination, networking, comprehensive care, immediate legal assistance, the adequacy of court spaces... The adequacy of the courts' spaces is going to be something of the medium-long term, mainly because the building is a very rough physical reality. It is true that we will have a chance with the transfer of the prosecutor's office to the occupation (...) within the very building we currently have, but, of course, one step has to be taken first and then another. And then we have to get something that, because of the appearances that we have had in the house, we know that it has its difficulty, that is to reach the consensus of all those affected by this change, not only workers' representatives, but also the judiciary, which also has its issues, also the Office of the Prosecutor and other operators who also intervene there. But, well, the point is to mark that direction and have an option to be able to improve it. If we didn't have that provision for the transfer of the prosecutor's office right now, we wouldn't have that opportunity to rethink or resize the spaces currently occupied, for example, by the court of gender-based violence. I think the course is firm, I think the course is fixed, I think the course is shared, and it is something we should not forget to put it in value. The spokesmen who preceded me have done so, I have done so, and I hope that those who succeed me in speaking also will do so. Once again, the issue of macho violence in this Parliament is raised unanimously. Thanks to everyone's efforts to get us to reach such an agreement today as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u64	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chief department, congressmen, good noon to everyone. The United Nations General Assembly stated in 1993: "Gender violence undermines or nullifies the development of freedoms and endangers the human rights of women, individual freedom and the physical integrity of women". It has long been asserted that social organisation is the principle of equality which begets the absence of equality, and which plays and maintains those states of equality. I think, however, that in the present day I must repeat the principles and expressions which I regularly repeat during my part, because thus we have succeeded in penetrating them. From the year 1993 we've been able to penetrate here every day, because we've had to remind them of such expressions every day, such principles. The social structure, in a general manner, rests on the cultured models of the subjection of men, from the dependence of women as social groups. The social allocation of sexualized roles and values has lasted for centuries, has been institutionalized through the family, and have been confounded with culture, with something natural, or with something that is tradition. Violence is defined as the violence of the social structure, that is to say, organized and fixed in social structure, and, therefore, though certain persons act in their private relations, the explanation of this state is connected with society. We can call it what we want or name it. Some will say 'heterriarched', and I have used other words to explain them. In either way, it's a reality. It is an evil that is rooted in our society, and amongst all that form society, and which must be resisted by various means. We've been working to deal with the organizations for a long time. It's not easy. The resources are required, yes. Coincidence, co-action, is essential, formation, prevention, sensitisation, attention. In the defense of the rights of women we are filling the streets with proclamations, for a more equal society will bring less violence, and a more equal society is just, justice is justice. As I said, these institutions work every day to provide new and better instruments and measures. There are also members of society who have a great deal to say, and what to do, and who are working. And yet, alas, we still have a long way to do it, but we are prepared to do it, with our daily resolutions, and the arrangement we have to discuss and agree to this day. The original proposal was that both the couple and the unknown accused of illegal violence or whether they've been in possession of it in recent years. There are several data confirming these expressions. However, it would be interesting to reflect on different factors. On the one hand, it must be borne in mind that only a small percentage of cases are reported: some women never report their aggressors. In many cases, it is a consequence of the normalization of violence; it is so intrinsic in society that it is understood as normal, and the victim does not know it is. In other cases, although aware of victimization, it is not reported out of fear. There are also women on informal or informal channels, such as family support or women's associations. In Euskadi, in the last 10 years, the number of victims of macho violence has fluctuated in a fork of between 4,000 and 5,000. If we compare data from 2008 and 2018, 4,171 women in 2008 and 4,244 women in 2018 have reported sexist assaults, which is between 13 and 11 complaints a day. Since 2014, Emakunde has collected separately the number of complaints, as well as the number of victims, since the same woman can report several times to her aggressor. In 2018, for example, 5,315 complaints were registered – as Mrs. Arana has pointed out – for sexist violence, but 4,244 victims were recorded. There is therefore more than one complaint lodged by the same woman. The same applies to crimes of sexual freedom: last year, 388 victims and 385 victims were found. Therefore, there are many and very different factors to take into account. And, of course, they are chilling data, and yet in 2018, Euskadi was the fourth largest autonomous community with the lowest rate of victims of gender-based violence per 10,000 inhabitants, with a rate of 49.9. It is located more than 16 points below the state average. Euskadi has a ratio of 13.11 victims of abuse per 10,000 women, below the Spanish average of 17.10. Only Extremadura, Castile and Lion, Galicia and Asturias have lower ratios than Euskadi. And I point out again that we still have to continue working; we have a lot of road ahead, a lot to do. It should also be noted that, with the increased awareness and awareness of women, complaints also increase, but, of course, I repeat again, we must continue to work to make male-based violence disappear from our society. In the presence of this state, these euscal institutions must be ready to give answers to the population constantly and in a proper manner, and therefore necessary to the intellectual and custom of attention; equality to the defence of the interests of the minors; to achieve and to normalize; to avoid efficiency and speed, and to avoid bichimization. And that's the deal we're going to have today's discussion and, luckily, we're gonna accept. As Mrs Arana said, an important agreement outside of headlines, with constructive contributions and taking steps day by day, steps that can sometimes be slow, but that are necessary. This is a job and a continuous job. On account of the middle course, both Mrs. Arana and Mrs. Castellao have given the description or description of the points which she received, word for word, point by point, so that I shall not be able to enlarge on it. I'd like you to notice something about the first point. "Revision de protocolos de coordinción entre coordinción coordinción las poscías y borderinción de Justicei para critarians y mejor actuciones de las publicción a violencias machistis," which must be so. To improve continuously, and to renew it, must be the purpose of our institutions, and is. Mrs Castelo has already mentioned this: in December and January the three provincial commissions were set up, with the help of the relevant hearings, in which the judges, prosecutors, police officers, Emakunde, technical staff responsible for social services and a large number of professionals work on improving coordination mechanisms, protocols and systems for the protection and care of victims of violence. Ez naiz gehiago lugatuko erdibidekoaz, baina ezin dezaket aipatu gabe utzi indarkeria matxistari aurre egiteko arau-prososamena, Berdintasun Legearen moldaketatik eratorriko dena, traina oso baliagarria izango baita. Martxoaren 6 year aurkeztu zen Emakundeko zuzendaritza-kontseiluan. On 9 January, the work process of assessing quality standards in the care of women victims of violence was completed, a work that has been carried out in collaboration with several United Nations agencies and has served to identify the main challenges of the future. The findings of this study have improved the new regulatory proposal; the current regulation will be strengthened and expanded. Mrs Goirizelaia, it is a priority for the Basque Government. And the lehendakari Urkullu already said, that for this Euskadi has solid foundations, with legal framework, with experience in equality and with specialized technical staff. And, on these foundations, the preliminary draft law, currently under preparation, will take one step further and strengthen the measures developed, both in the care and prevention of violence against women and in other aspects related to the equality of women and men. I fully share these statements. This is a truly ambitious project, pioneering again in Euskadi, which will gather very new concepts and, above all and most importantly, which will equip our society with new, more and better tools to eradicate macho violence. The agreement which I have made to-day ought, as I have said before, to take steps in all directions. That's the way we're from today. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The next round of the group that hasn't run any corrections, representative of the Basque Potula Group. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u66	Thank you again, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Well, the spokesman who preceded me in speaking has begun with a few words from the UN; I will start with a few words that my colleague, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, said in this very rostrum and which I fully share. Here the data of the victims have been given and – as he was saying – with the existence of a single victim for any kind of violence, it would be enough to activate all the mechanisms that we have been putting in place for a long time, and that, not only this Government, but that the whole of society should set as a priority, as a priority, the fight against gender-based violence, so that it disappears from our press, from our judicial activity and from our daily lives, unfortunately. But the problem, as has been said here, is that, although we are improving – and there is no doubt that we are improving in the very conception that society has of gender-based violence; there is nothing more to look back on and see what concepts were not so long ago and the inadmissibility that now exists in society as a whole towards this kind of violence – but, despite all this, despite the fact that means are put in place, even though protocols are put in place, there is not only one victim, but there are many more victims. As has been said here, the number has increased, in what seems to have no end. And, although, as I said, society is becoming more and more aware, we are becoming more and more aware that it is a problem for all and that affects us all, unfortunately, it seems like a tear that is difficult to eradicate. The Department of Justice, not only that of Justice, but all the departments of the Basque Government, all the institutions of Euskadi and all the institutions of the rest of Spain, all the political parties and the whole of society must be involved in this struggle, and we are. With this intention, the State Pact against Gender Violence was forged among all in the Congress of Deputies. And while it is true that not everyone signed it, everyone was able to make their contributions, everyone was able to give their best so that this fundamental tool against this social scourge, as I said, so that this struggle could move forward, because that pact contains many measures in different areas. It is true that, on other occasions that this issue has been discussed here, a more apocalyptic view has been given of the situation in Euskadi, and it is true that today it has not been given, because, although there is much scope for improvement, it is also true that many things have been done, which are many springs, which are many resources, which are many people working against gender violence. At this point, I do want to make a point. It is true that, when we went to gender-based violence courts, we were made demands that may appear to be claims of the staff there, but that, in the end, those demands affect the level and quality of justice provided to victims of gender-based violence, which is what we are dealing with here today. But, as I said, there are many in Euskadi who are working on this matter. The Ertzaintza, as we could see – as Mrs Castelo said – on Friday, works a lot in this direction; it makes an individualized study of each victim, a personalized follow-up, a continuous accompaniment and a 24-hour attention. There are many officials, many judges, many judges, prosecutors, prosecutors and prosecutors, lawyers and lawyers, who work for it every day. There are many psychologists and psychologists, social workers and psychosocial teams who, as I say, are at the foot of the cannon to eradicate this violence, as I said, with physical wear – because they work many hours – and with the emotional wear that often involves them. Emotional wear that sometimes does – and we were told so when we went to see the facilities – that mobility in this type of court and this type of court is very high. That is why I was saying that the conditions under which work is carried out, not only work, but also of all kinds, are important to prevent such mobility, which I believe is not good. Having said that there are many resources, I will also say that it is true that things remain to be done, and that it is true that, although we do not have the magic wand Unfortunately, things can be done that are not being done, that were the subject of the initiative that was being proposed here today. Because, as the last two points of the initiative and also of the amendment that has been agreed, two agreements were unanimously reached in this House: one on 26 October 2017 and the other on 29 November of the same year. The latter, it is true, was taken after a visit to the courts in Bilbao, in which we were given a series of approaches, questions that did not work well, and which were the subject of an initiative in which we then unanimously approved everything. And indeed, if those agreements, as they were established there – which, as I say, were adopted unanimously – would have been complied with, many of the points that are brought here today would not have to have been brought, because many of those agreements adopted, as I say, unanimously were the subject of an appearance which, as has also been said in this House, came to light, not long ago, in the Committee on Labour and Justice. And we were told how the service provided to victims of gender-based violence worked, what its quality was. Of course, the ones we were there were able to check, or we could hear, that there are still many things to do, that there are many things to do. In this respect, I too value the agreements. And the agreements that are adopted in this House are important, and even more important if they are adopted unanimously, because it is important that we, as representatives of political groups, as representatives, ultimately, of Basque society, agree on a matter as important as the fight against gender-based violence, that we put aside the buts that we can have each of the groups to pool the pros and get to that meeting point so that we can all from here put our grain of sand, our effort to deal properly with the victims of gender-based violence, for those who – as has been said, are not all because on many occasions the complaint is not easy for a woman who is the victim of gender-based violence – decide to take the step and demand that access to justice for these types of women be easier for them than it is at the moment. But I believe that as important as the unanimous adoption of the agreements is that these agreements are then implemented and that there is no frustration – because it is true that one, in the end, has the frustration – that what has been agreed on a year and a half ago, then many of these things are still to be done. We did not table an amendment because – we told the proposer almost from the beginning – we saw it well, and supporting this initiative does not mean recognizing or denouncing that nothing is being done or that everything is being done wrong. Not at all. I want to stress again that many things are being done and that many things are being done very well, but that more can be done and that more needs to be done, and, above all, things must be done that we agreed, that should have been done and that have not yet been done. For example, an amendment was tabled – which is the subject of the initiative – by this group for the conditioning of all judicial premises, and the amendment has not been used in its entirety for that purpose. That is why we were going to vote in favour of the original initiative, and we are even more happy to vote on an amendment which, in the end, is going to assume that this type of agreement will be reached unanimously. And we were going to do it because we agree with the coordination. It is true that it exists, but probably, as was also said here, we need to review what is done and see if it can be improved. Well, we agree with that coordination between the local police, the Ertzaintza and the Justice Administration. We agree to improve the training, which is being done, but which we believe needs to be improved, that specific training to all related personnel – the judiciary, the prosecutor's office, forensics, lawyers, police, etc. – in order to avoid, as the initiative says, such revictimization or remove obstacles that prevent access to justice. We agree with the specialisation, precisely with the specificity of the amendment, so that there is a specialisation and information on gender of the staff who are assigned to the courts of gender-based violence. We agree to provide the courts with access to justice so that, regardless of the conditions of any woman, they can all have access to justice when they decide to report. And we agree – it is true that it is a long-term thing and that, probably, it cannot be done, but the sooner we start, the sooner we will finish – with evaluating the care facilities for victims and minors, because, at this time – they have already told us there – they are not the most appropriate; and also with the comprehensive support service and with that comprehensive care of all the institutions and that networking work, which is essential to put in place those necessary measures. And also, as we say, review that legal aid agreement, of those personnel as important as we are lawyers and lawyers who cover assistance to victims of gender-based violence. And, above all, to comply with those two agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u67	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u68	As I say, some will be more immediate and easier to achieve; others will take longer. But the sooner we start, the sooner we'll be done. As we say, and with this I conclude – and I do not think there is a second intervention – the agreement seems absolutely positive to us. We hope that it will be fulfilled, that when they come to this committee again we will not have to listen to what we heard last time, but that they will tell us quite the opposite, that the progress has been significant and that the quality of service has improved ostensibly. I think it's a job we have to be in, and I think we're all here, because the goal of eradicating gender-based violence unites us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u69	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answering shift together Podemos. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u70	Yes, thank you. Very brief. Simply, with Mrs. Llanos, just to say that "apocalyptic," I don't know, but "horrible," I assure you that it is: spaces where the victims coincide with the alleged aggressors, the children listening to the horrible stories that can be heard there... Well, "apocalyptic," I don't know, but "horrible," sure. With regard to Mrs Arrizabalaga – and I do not want to enter, that is to say, it is not to enter into controversy – that there are fewer complaints about other autonomy does not guarantee that such violence is not taking place here. So, I just want to point out that that message can make it seem like there may be – we don't know – fewer Machist violence here, and, as there are many Machist aggressions that don't report, obviously, we don't know if there is more or less violence in our autonomous community. It was just for mating. The proposal for a rule to which he has no doubt referred will be a step forward, but it will be a step forward if we really make much progress on what is now and if we all reach a good agreement. But we already know that, like any law, if resources are not provided, then it remains in that, on paper, articles and in a very beautiful law, but that it must be provided with resources. I believe that this initiative is a great step in terms of what we are dealing with today, to change that patriarchal justice that revictimizes, and to make access to justice, at least, more friendly. And I think we're going to improve a lot, and this is a bottom-up race, and it's short-, medium- and long-term measures. I believe that on March 8 the feminist movement once again taught us a lesson to all the people we are here today. They again requested more resources and fewer photos. And I think today this initiative responds a little to that request that the feminist movement was making to us on March 8. In Elkarrekin We can work conscientiously to achieve what we believe in, which is a feminist Euskadi that leaves no one behind, a just, participatory, egalitarian and democratic Euskadi. And to reach that feminist, just, inclusive, participatory, egalitarian and democratic Euskadi, it is not enough for more women; it is necessary that all laws, initiatives and plans have a gender perspective, that the resources to eradicate human rights violations and machist violence are the ones necessary to really give a concrete response to all this. In any case, no doubt, I remain with this great agreement, one more step towards a less patriarchal and fairer justice with the victims of Machist violence. So I think we all have to congratulate ourselves on what is going to be approved here today. So, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. The representative of the EH Collectors, the Lady of the High Court, must not speak a word. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Castellao, over there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u72	From the seat because it's going to be very brief. One nuance: it is true that workers' demands and their conditions affect the quality of the service provided, but it is also true that measures are being taken. Measures which, logically, are not seen at the immediate moment when they are set in motion, but which will be seen on an equal course of short to medium term. I am referring – and we have heard it a little while ago in that LAB workers' appearance – to the fact that actions have been taken by the occupational health prevention services of the courts aimed at improving interprofessional relations between civil servants, through coaching Of all this which is done equally in a way, as I say, quieter, or with the commitment of active participation and dedication given by officials, we sometimes do not realize, but it is all there. That is why I remain with what Mrs Llanos, Mrs Goirizelaia and Mrs Arana have said. It's a long time ago, it's good, but much more needs to be done. We need to reflect, we need to assess, we need to improve. Active listening and consensus. And with that I remain today: unanimity when we deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arrivalga, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u74	Yes, ma'am, from the seat, and also from your permission. I'll be brief too, just a few things to say. Alde battik, Arana andreari weretzuteko. I think I was very sincere during my speech. All the data I've provided are objective, which you might like more or less. They have not been, at all, to give rise to any wrong impression. They've been given objective. On the subject of resources, I believe that, at this point in the film, seeing what commitment has been made, only now with all the work prior to the introduction of the bill, it seems to me that the commitment is clear and that the resources that are going to be needed are going to be there at all times. Finally, we would like to congratulate everyone on the agreement reached. I think it is very important, again, a new agreement in positive terms, one more step. That's how you build it, and the truth is, I'm very happy. I thank all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Finishing up... Mrs. Llanos has no need to speak. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect, and the middle-class correction that the Euncierians have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 0; white, 0; 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-21.u76	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fourteen.
