ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. One theme: "A legal project approved by General Pregasunia 20th of the Basque Autonomy Esproduced Office 20th yearly Preservations. Discipline and final resolution. This will be the method we use to discuss the judgment; First, the first round of the teams, the 30 minutes from the small to the big, to show the position of the teams in regard to the impact they've made, and if they're reserved for correction, what reason they've had to reserve. The answer shift will be 10 minutes. After the discussion, those who are reserved for the division will vote together according to their groups. Anyway, if any team asks them to vote separately, that's how it's done. Then we vote for tables and appendages which include the changes approved by the committee's discussion. As for the corrections proposed to the articles, they will first vote for the amendments introduced by the popular Basque Groups, and after that, EH Collect the corrections proposed by the teams. And in conclusion, we vote for the other articles of judgment, attachments, and the title of law. After these explanations, we will discuss them. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u1	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, members of the government. Today we are attending the debate on the last budget of this legislature, and there will be a budget thanks to the government's pact with the Elkarrekin Podemos group. However, the legislature began with different agreements, with the People's Party, agreements both in the Basque Country and in Spain. These agreements yielded some fruits, such as the stability at the two sites, the Cup agreement, that the high-speed train arrived in the Basque Country in 2023, which was buried in Vitoria and Bilbao, the reform of the company tax, the subway of trains in the Left Margin. And several laws of this Parliament were passed, such as the Ports Act, for example, for the first time since we have autonomous status. It grew more or less over 3% and created jobs, in short, of much higher quality than what is now being created. But the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government decided to change partners at the age of two and the excuse was a sentence for corruption in a city council in Madrid for a 15-year-old issue that did not affect the Spanish Government at all. And here it is that, incidentally, a week ago we met with a sentence for corruption in the Basque Country that affects the Álava Parliament and the Basque Government. And I don't know if Mrs. Mendia is preparing a motion of censure, but maybe that would be the right thing to do, given what was done elsewhere. In any case, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Government, in this change of partners in addition to joining the Socialist Party incorporated EH Bildu and Podemos, in Madrid, in Navarra, in Álava, in the City Council of Vitoria. And this gave rise to the following. For example, to the high-speed train – in the pact that the PNV made with Mr Sánchez's failed budget – he would be kicked forward for two years. And the forecast was no longer 2023, but 2025. Now we don't know when it is. This must be part of the Basque Nationalist Party's Basque Agenda. I think it was, wasn't it? In the end the Basque Agenda of the Basque Nationalist Party is not the welfare of the Basques, it is the welfare of the Basque Nationalist Party. For something that was very urgent and that had to come in the 23rd we no longer know when it is coming; neither if it is in the 25th, nor in the 26th, nor in the 27th. But well, these are the effects of those decisions. Last year, with the new partners, they tried to agree with Bildu on budgets. It didn't come out, but it did come out part, it did come out part. Because in the extension of the budgets that the councillor refused to agree with us, although we offered him a deal, the GIR – which was Bildu's request – went up by 3.5%. It did not please its partners elsewhere, although it did in this House, because it must also be remembered that EH Bildu is the necessary partner of the Basque Nationalist Party in the agreement on bases for charging the Statute and the Constitution. Agreement that remains in force because no one has renounced it, which we know. And the Basque Government's excuses for not agreeing with the People's Party this time have been two. The People's Party is proposing an IRPF reform that is unsustainable according to Mr Azpiazu, among others. By the way, he didn't ask us what it was. No one at the PNV asked us what it was. No one has asked us what our proposal was. Because it is clear that they cared about a cumin, because what we had agreed two years ago in the reform of the IRPF was no longer going to happen and it is no longer going to happen, except in those specific cases which Mr Bizkaia's deputy general considers appropriate. And we were also told something very curious, which the councillor noticed a lot in the committee presenting the budgets: the issue of Adostuz and the violation of the rights of pre-retired teachers of public education. "It's 200 million, that would break the Basque government's accounts." Man, the proposal was in several years. It wasn't $200 million, Counselor. But since Podemos has agreed for 200 million, one is surprised that We can renounce to defend the social rights of civil servants. But it is even more surprising that the Basque Government has the capacity to amend EUR 200 million and tells us, when we put forward something, that this would burden the budget, that we would not meet any criteria in Europe, no deficit, no spending rules, nothing at all. Turns out if you deal with Podemos, you do, don't you, Mr. Lehendakari? 200 million in a year. Hey, we've been putting him up in a lot of exercises. And I say that these were the excuses you made. Man, during those first two years there was also a racca-racca of the opposition, both Bildu and Podemos, but especially of Mr Martínez. I remember Mr Martínez for two years asking Mr Lehendakari why he was negotiating with the most corrupt party in Europe. Listen, Mr Martínez, and why do you agree with the most corrupt party in Europe in Madrid and the most corrupt party in Euskadi, sorry, Euskal Herria, here? What has changed in your performance criteria? Perhaps what has changed is that there will be budgets here because there is a pact in Madrid. A government pact so that the one that will be the vice president of the Government of Spain can be vice president of the Government of Spain. And all your amendments, which I recognise you are making an effort, in the end, an effort to speak to you. But of course, in the pacts of the past few years, the Basque Government is actually that from the minute one thought that it gave it equal deal with any group. We said, "Man, what social model do you have?". Because, in short, it is not the same deal with the People's Party as with Bildu or We can that, more or less, the social model they have is practically the same. And this is leading us to a drift, so, a bit curious. Curious not to say worrying. Why? Because it is leading us to a model in which the three main problems that Mr Lehendakari said we had at the beginning of the legislature exist, but aggravated. The one from birth. I'm not going to explain it to him. That is, the failure of this government's family policies in these four years is clamorous. If we look at it for results, zero or less. There's no note below zero. Have we grown up? Did we bet something? We are the only group we have made proposals. We said, "Hey, put the universal on." It doesn't cost much either. If he doesn't have children, almost none of the Basques. Let's put the universal on. What model of society does the Basque Nationalist Party want? I'll tell you what the model we're going to is. Look, there are some who work, they pay taxes, they beat the record by paying taxes, they contribute, and there are others who don't do that. And they don't do that because they're creating a system where people don't quote, they don't pay IRPF, but they're entitled to subsidies. Which is very good, but it turns out that the one who enters the right of subsidies cannot go out because he is not allowed out. Mr. lehendakari, if you charge an RGI of 700 euros and offer you a job of 900 or 1,000 – which means that in order to earn 300 euros you have to work seven days a week – how much time do you get paid? Two euros? Do you think someone's worth it? I ask because the model of society (which is also fraud), the social model to which it is going is to this one. And who's harmed? For to those who pay taxes, who theoretically have the right, for example, to choose the education of their children at the concertate, to which you suffocate and which are raised less than 1% to the teachers of the concertate in these budgets. That's right, according to the social model of these gentlemen, which is to charge the agreed one. And that's what you're playing with this model of society, which is not ours at all. But for nothing. It is not the same thing to agree with one another, even if Mr Lehendakari gives absolutely the same. Maybe he doesn't have any model of society. The other day a PNV spokesman came out here talking about Christian humanism. So let God come down and see him, to see where that humanism and the Christian is going. We don't see that at all. The person entering a protected housing cannot leave, he cannot leave the system that is being created of protected housing. If you have to go to work somewhere else, what do you do? How do you do it? He can't. And what jobs are being created in the last two years? Because the other day someone called me a xenophobic because I said that 50% of the jobs that have been created have been for foreigners. It seems very good to me that they are for foreigners. What I am saying is that it is not precisely the highest quality or best-paid jobs. Because I don't know if I'm an extraterrestrial, Mr. lehendakari, but I foreigners I see coming to work here don't see that they go from directors to big companies in this country. I see them in other sectors. And basically in the domestic sector, which is where, by the way, a lot of unemployment has been created. That then, by the way, as the minimum wage has risen, it turns out that you have gone into the submerged economy, which is what is encouraging this model that you are proposing. Everyone here gets their mouths full talking about tax fraud. They're quantifying it. You will know why and how much. And it's very good to fight tax fraud. What about the rest? Not the rest, you can live with the rest. Well, this model of society is clearly not ours. This budget, which will be approved today, and Mr Azpiazu knows it, and that is why he has agreed to it as he has agreed, will prevent taxes and the IRPF from being lowered to the Basques for many years, because it only consolidates the current expenditure of the Basque Government. It increases it. And the deal with Podemos has made it substantially worse. What makes more than 90% of all its amendments is an increase in current expenditure, an increase by the Basque Government, which, by the way, will see what it is spent on. But, of course, it will be spent on current expenditure by the Basque Government itself. That's right, under the heading of equality or against climate change. Climate change. By the way, advisors in the industry, the Water Directive said that it had to pay for the most consumed. If you charge at the start-up, how do you distribute it? The other day, not just us, but also other groups told him that this violates the Water Directive, that this is not an ecological or similar rate. It's just a collection effect. And the more water is wasted, the more it is consumed, the more the Government collects. And on top of that it does not depend on citizens, it depends on whether consortia and suppliers do things right or do things wrong. Mr Martinez, is this budget more ecological than the previous ones? Not to mention the Hydrocarbon Society, which was talked about here a lot the other day. But I have only seen an amendment that increases the amount with which that society started. Then, within society, you will know what you have amended, but from government to society, increase the departure. It does not seem to us that it is the best way or the best model to combat climate change in a society that does not contribute anything, but that it has cost us a lot of money for many years, and that is what could be called another one of those little bars of this Government. The budget was bad, we said it in our amendment as a whole, and it has now become substantially worse. But it has worsened substantially because it creates bases that are going to be very difficult and very complicated to modify. This year the GIR will rise more than 7.5% from March to December. I don't see any government lowering it. The current spending you're consolidating, I don't see any government lowering it. I see the Basque Government maintaining the cuts it made to certain groups of officials in its day. But then, on the other hand, there is no problem in increasing their salaries, contributions to pension funds, to others who are now. And all of that consolidates a lot of spending, doesn't it, Counselor? Of course, out of every 100 million, 50 to chapter one. And every year more, and every year more. Which, on the street, those who pay taxes, those who contribute, no one has been paid the salary as this Government has been doing for the past two years. Neither the staff who work for the Government nor those who receive subsidies from the Government. Do you know anyone who has been raised by 7%, or more than 7.5%, or more than 4.5% as officials, in any company of those workers who pay their taxes? I don't know, I don't know. Because some might think that this is a government of officials and for officials. But not all of them are officials. Because, it's one of the new developments in this budget, because government officials already charge trienniums, but if it's necessary to approve trienniums for those who aren't civil servants, it's that they're not all civil servants. There are some senior officials or members of the Government who are not officials, and they must be made to cover trienniums. I don't know why, Counselor. What's the concept? What's the concept? Someone may be in the Basque Government. "Ah, well, if it's PNV the same way yes, of course!" to become trienians, right? And some of them have vice-advisors, high-ranking positions, reliable staff... But only the approach that a political office can collect trienniums is paradoxical. It's paradoxical, Mr. Counselor. But that, on top of that, we can approve it seems more paradoxical to me. You came here to save us all from corruption, from the elites... It was you who were going to clean up. Mr Martínez, you are going to eat the most chungo budget – speaking clear and silver – of the entire legislature. And he's going to eat it with the most corrupt parties in Europe, Spain and Euskal Herria. That's what it's all about. That's what it's all about. Because of course, when the pact comes from Madrid, it comes from Madrid. What makes me so funny is that they try to sell us that it is a pact that will greatly improve the quality of life of citizens. I assure you that within a year the Basque citizens, the women, with this pact that you have made, will be worse than today. They're going to have less work than today. And they're going to have worse jobs than they have today. Because there is not a single real measure that fosters what I am telling you, or that fosters the fight against the wage gap. The wage gap is not fought with a game, giving money to the Basque Government. See, the pay gap is not between officials. They all charge the same. The pay gap is on the street. He's on the street. How much money are you going to go to the streets, to the citizens, to fight it? No, no, I don't tell the city halls, the government... I tell the citizens, the companies, to fight that. I say to aid for real reconciliation, for women who work and actually contribute, so that they do not have that difference in wages and can work the same hours as men. Zero, that's it, zero. We – and we have defended this not this legislature but also in other legislatures – are betting on a model of a society of free citizens. A free citizen means he chooses. For if not, he is not free; if he cannot choose, he is not free. And you have the right to choose education. By the way, it's in the Human Rights Charter, it's in the Spanish Constitution, it's in the PNV pact with Podemos. But what do you bring? Zero euros. This Basque Government has frozen the current expenditure module of the concerted centres for 11 years. 11 years frozen. And in the module to pay teachers the rise is 0.8%, counselor. I've reviewed it three times because you said, "No, it's not." Well, hey, what percentage goes up? 0,8 %. That's what you brought us. Last year they brought the zero. Then, in the extension, he climbed it like the officials. But in the budget he brought the zero and now he's brought the 0.8. Yes, yes, Mr. Counselor, yes, the 0.8. Do the numbers, you know how to do them. And the free citizen model is a model in which people access well-paid jobs, because if they are not well-paid, they are not free. And that you can choose to have a home, but a free market home, not a protected home. That's not a free citizen, that's a subsidized citizen, who gets into that wheel and then can't get out. Because I don't know if you know that now people start working here and change businesses. New generations change a lot. And they also change many times because they want to, but sometimes out of necessity. Someone who enters the protected housing system is fused, can't move anywhere because he loses the housing. And the other place doesn't have access to any. Why? Because you are creating a system of trapped citizens. Trapped in the social welfare system that we are creating among all. You will have the conscience very calm. It seems to me that the best system of social protection is that in which people do not need social protection because they work and live from their work, honestly, well, paying taxes and contributions. We said that the best system of social protection is employment. Employment, of course, of quality. What measures are there in this budget to promote quality employment? The investments of the Basque Government, for example? It is the least investor budget of the entire legislature, the least investor. Among other things because Madrid's investment has fallen. As there is no more investment for Y Today the people asked me to be brief. I'm going to be shorter and I'm going to finish. It is clear, Mr Lehendakari, that the drift you are in is a drift that does affect citizens, but it does affect the quality of life of citizens. It does affect the model of society, at least the one we aspire to and want to defend, which is that of free citizens, with decent wages, with real freedoms, with real freedoms. Hey, do you imagine Osakidetza if people stopped going private? What would happen? Has this Government ever raised this question? The IMQ has been published in the newspapers a lot lately. Has this government ever really wondered what would happen if people didn't pay in addition to what they already had to have totally free because they pay their taxes? Because here there are citizens who pay taxes, theoretically they have free health care, but they have to pay. Theoretically, they have free education for their children and can choose the model, but you have to pay. And there are others, as I have told you, Mr Lehendakari, who do not pay but are entitled to everything. And there are others who pay and have to keep paying in private to get those rights. This system is not on the right track, Mr Lehendakari. And since it is not on the right track, because what you want me to say, we are going to vote against this budget, which is substantially worse with the amendments tabled by Podemos. It is just that I do not think there is any that will encourage job creation, people's freedom. No, they're all the opposite. They're all the opposite. I understand that you want a domesticated society with domesticated citizens, but that is not our model of society. We aspire to another model of society, which is basically what the Basques have had for quite a long time, and which you, little by little, are carrying.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u2	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists? He's got a word from the American Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u3	Good morning, everyone. Today we come to the final stage for the approval of the budget of the Basque Government for 2020. We have come to give the green light to the economic instrument that ensures the impetus of public policies in our community, despite what we hear in this rostrum. The Socialist Group, as we said in the debate on amendments to the whole, is convinced that we will give our support to a budget project that – far from all the arguments put forward by the opposition today, a part that we have already heard is what the People's Party represents and another that we will then hear from EH Bildu – will consolidate the framework of stability and progress in which the Socialists have been involved for three years now. A commitment of our party to ensure that the immediate urgency of the Euskadi is met from government action and that the pillars are put in place to meet the challenges of the future. This is what this budget means. A budget which, despite its weight, maintains solidarity and social cohesion in its DNA, which shows the commitment and responsibility of this bipartisan government to society and to the priorities of this society. A budget that collects economic items that will make possible the consolidation of the government program that agreed at the beginning of the legislature the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. A programmatic pact for economic recovery, job creation and maintenance of public services, health, education and social protection. A budget that consolidates the social rights of Basque citizens because consolidating rights is like a citizen is free. The Socialists have come back to this final debate on budgets with the same feeling that we have come to on the two previous occasions during this parliamentary term, and that is that no opposition party has an alternative project, and that there is a lot, but a lot, of party waste from those who support their partial amendments here today. On the one hand, we meet the People's Party, which fails to overcome the duel in which Mariano Rajoy was joined after the motion of censure. And today here he has given his version, as I say, of his own internal argumentary. A People's Party anchored in bitterness and with eyes so tarnished that they neither see nor commit themselves to the problems of Basque citizenship. Such is the spite that you feel, that you have been installed for months at the maximum of that to the government or water. Even if they have to make, like today, real biribiletas. Today you have been here arguing, on the one hand, the issue that GIR provokes a society of subsidized people. But, on the other hand, we have data that shows that there are fewer applicants than three years ago. That's because there are more job opportunities. But then you tell us that we do not create jobs and that what is created is not of quality. Well, you'll know how he keeps his arguments. For me, his slogan is the slogan of the fired, the only one under which I can understand him. You all know that the Socialists have always been open to settling sectoral accounts and policies with all the parliamentary groups in this House, without vetoes or exclusions. A maximum that, as a group, we apply to all and each of the parliamentary negotiations that we have been developing in this House, week after week. Because we Socialists have had and we are clear that the priority is negotiation, especially in budgetary negotiations. And that's why we have no vetoes. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have been open to compromise with anyone who wants to share and provide answers to the needs of citizens, regardless of who will govern beyond the Ebro, which seems to be very important to other groups. A strategy and attitude in which the People's Group is not, and is not expected to be, present. You'll know. Soon you will have to be accountable to the citizenry, and we will see how the citizens value this long disregard that you maintain. Because it is worth reminding you, ladies and gentlemen, that politics is the art of dialogue and agreement. And that one must be aware that when an actor withdraws from the scene and decides not to continue practicing that art, it leaves the quick way for other actors to enter the scene and decide to participate, reach agreements and set their priorities. An opportunity that, this year, has finally decided to take advantage of part of the Elkarrekin Podemos coalition. Your amendments, those of the Group of the European People's Party, distil, as my colleague Mrs Corcuera already told you in the full debate we had on the 16th, a clear aversion to the public and, above all, to the protection of those who need it most. They are left with public workers and, as a result, they are submitting amendments to reduce the recruitment of teachers. That's right, public school teachers and teachers. Because, in your amendments, you do not have to cover any casualties. Do they claim that the Government, under article 33, establishes that no teacher can become ill? Or is it that no teacher can claim leave to reconcile that family life that you are so concerned about? Because that is what some of the amendments that you have tabled mean: not to the salaries of substitutes, not to their social contributions. And it's not the only game that affects education. You are left with the registration campaigns so that people can choose in a free way. There's plenty of scholarship campaigns left for you. The same applies to the compensation of members of the courts, despite the fact that rights are recognized. The People's Party is not interested in these recognized rights. Now, that's right, they worry a lot about those teachers who aren't active, because worrying about those who are active isn't necessary. Detracting these resources from public education, where does it lead them? So to the obsession that you maintain: to the funding of the concerted. You will understand, Mr Damborenea, that we do not support the amendments you are putting forward and that we are much more convinced of sharing the part that Elkarrekin We can call for the reinforcement of the public school. They are based on your amendments, as always, in the cut-off and even in the suppression of what you call – in a joyful way – current spending, which you always consider excessive and unnecessary. So they propose in their amendments that we leave it to the slightest expression, for example, another of their obsessions, which is the item of computer expenditure. No matter what the Department, not one of the government departments is freed. The electronic prescription, the interoperability of health systems, the electronic file, the renewal of equipment or even the toners of printers are also at the back of these items. Everything is superfluous to you. Now they do, then they go down to this rostrum and fill in minutes asking for the paperless administration, the electronic court file, the telematic processing of police attestations or the improvement of apps A coherence, Mr Damborenea, which even led them to vote 'no' in committee to amendments which were identical to yours. You said that all Elkarrekin's amendments We could make the budget worse. Well, let him look at it because you shared some of them. I'll just mention two. One of the amendments that you tabled, a battery of six amendments that you tabled, had to do with the increase in the amounts allocated to free legal aid, in conjunction with Elkarrekin Podemos; your vote in committee, "no". Others coincided in employment programmes, seeking to strengthen some employment programmes for vulnerable groups. Elkarrekin Podemos tabled the same amendments; his vote in committee, "no". Everything, no, no and no. They're angry and, as my niece says, they've decided not to breathe. Well, you'll know. And on the other end, who are we meeting? For we meet with the usual: with EH Bildu. That big brown bear in permanent hibernation, who this year – as always – decides not to leave his cave, who prefers to stay in the comfort zone of his seats, in order not to get wet with anything or anyone. I still believe that they endure the anguish of the experience of negotiating the 2019 budget; the one from which they withdrew in the last breath, between sweats and chills that felt they were thinking of jumping to the wheel and leaving the shelter of the seats of that tough and pure opposition that have been exercising decades and decades. This year EH Bildu didn't even have it to think, that in the cave you are much warmer. The strategy was clear from the beginning, we go to the top, we criticize those who get wet without much notice of spite. Although I believe that, frankly, this has not been achieved, because they are noticed and very painful. And as my partner Susana has already explained to you in the whole debate – but I think it is also worth repeating today, gentlemen of EH Bildu, the parties strive to convince people to vote for us, and it is citizenship that grants or does not grant absolute majority. And when they don't grant absolute majority what they're demanding or forcing us to do, it's that we agree, that we come to agreements between different people. And for that, to reach agreements between different, one must be able to see what the other has reasons and how the positions approach the other. The Socialists assume, when we agree, that we cannot carry out our entire programme and that our efforts must be focused on directing public policies as closely as possible to our proposals, even if this means moving forward in a slower way. And that is how a government's action can be directed towards strengthening the public's progress in social cohesion. This basic principle is very simple and is called a principle of reality. That principle that you practice only when you touch them, not preach, but give wheat. And you don't need to remind them what policies you apply or what are the maximums you use in those places where you've ever ruled, do you? Because we have to remember there where those 1,200 euros would be found in Guipúzcoa or Navarra, because I have tired of looking and I do not find them. But as I was telling you, the principle of reality for you did not touch any other years or, of course, this one. What's on them today, and we'll see it when they come down to this rostrum, is to display their essences, air their maxims, and claim the homeland above the people. If all in all, there is no intention to negotiate, because a fat brush in the amendments that is sought is not to influence, but that what we are looking for, boys, is something else: the anxious press headlines. And so you take up the major amendments: the supplement of pensions, the indexation of income guarantee income to the inter-branch minimum wage, the minimum wage of EUR 1,200. Well, very badly suited to the budget, by the way. Proposals to remind you that you didn't even look at the patita last year when you threw a little bit of your pants and did a trading simulation, nor did you trace the interprofessional minimum wage in the proposal to increase the GIR. That what you raised, and you know it perfectly well, was a percentage on what exists, the same thing that this year has achieved another group. Nor did the 1,200 euros in employment promotion programmes, which he proposed, come to the improvement of programmes aimed at certain groups: young people, local employment programmes and vulnerable groups. Precisely and casually, improvements have been made to this budget by other groups. And that's how politics is: the gap that some leave because others take advantage of it. And you see, with far more effectiveness vis-à-vis the Basques and Basques than these guardians of the essences we have in this Parliament. In particular, in its amendments, reductions have been introduced in a generic manner. Some departments are almost a classic of you, i.e., I will be surprised the day I review the budget of the Basque Government and not find myself a reduction amendment in the Ertzaintza. 63 million euros less. This Ertzaintza which they then ask, yes, to specialize in environmental matters, among other things, but to which year after year they want to cut their resources. Or the Administration of Justice, a service for which you do not tire of agreeing in this Parliament to improve care, for example, for victims of male violence, but to which you would devote a lot less than millions, would you not? The truth is that we are not surprised, that's what has to amend away from the principle of reality and thinking about other things. In the amendments to increase expenditure, as I said to you, the amendments to the title, the amendments to accommodate the holder who is being pursued: supplement of pensions, establishment of a minimum wage with berets, its green amendments, the amendments to berets. Anyway, all these. The least of its amendments is whether they fit into the competition framework or not. They don't care. Or in the budgetary instrument they use or not, they are not interested either. That does not matter to you today, what you want is to fill out the speech and then we'll see how you use your turn. You know that all of them, all of these proposals, have already been discussed in this Parliament over and over again with the initiatives that have been brought to this House. And in each and every one of them, we Socialists have given them our arguments and have not tired of repeating to them over and over again what our position is on the public pension system. Nor have we been tired of repeating to them our position on that interprofessional minimum wage that differentiates between Basques, Galicians, Asturians or Catalans. Nor will we tire of repeating who is responsible for the collective bargaining that we have to respect, and who is responsible for establishing the wage agreement. They have listened to us over and over again, but for you it's the same, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's the essences, it's not the influences. I have no hope of convincing you, neither the lords of the People's Party nor the lords of EH Bildu. So, I am going to be brief and I am going to finish. The art of politics, the art of dialogue and agreement, you do not want to practice it. I conclude as my colleague concluded in the plenary of amendments to the whole, making it clear, very clear, that when the Socialists vote and reject the amendments that have reserved for this plenary both the People's Party and EH Bildu, we will be able to say loud and clear to citizens that in 2020 we will have budgets that support our public services and our model of protection, that support employment plans, that address climate challenges and that take account of equality as a cross-cutting axis of all the policies that the Basque Government deploys. Socialists will be able to tell citizens that it has been worth getting involved without complexes, with conviction and with passion, so that we can be told that we have that unwavering faith and that strength of the Templar warriors in the engagement with the citizens, that we have that commitment in the governance of Euskadi and of the other institutions, that we want to offer stability, the stability they need. Because despite all the bad wishes that Mr Damborenea has from here, or all those wishes that were announced three years ago, the reality, that principle of reality, what he says is that today the Basques and Basques are much better equipped and prepared to face any future uncertainty. Therefore, today, when we have just filled out the press headlines that some are looking for, we can say that we have an instrument to consolidate public policies, to consolidate public services and to better address the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together, we have the representatives of the Podemos team. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u5	Good morning, everyone. The two congressmen on the left side of the legislature, we're going to back down the Eucommy budget today because we want to be consistent and determined in defense of our planning. We arrived in this Parliament in 2016, after that economic crisis that so many rights went ahead. And we made two fundamental commitments to those who placed trust in us: the first was to fight to reverse the policies of cuts executed with the excuse of the crisis, and the second, to propose an alternative model, from the left, to the predominant logic. The budgets that we are voting on today maintain cutbacks that were designed and implemented with the argument of necessity in times of crisis, so we would miss our commitment if we did not reject them. These are measures that we have been criticizing for years, as you know perfectly well, and that should not be maintained if they were really created as exceptional in times of crisis. We would also miss our second commitment if we supported budgets that have not changed their logic with regard to previous years. A year ago, in this very Parliament, we said that to propose an alternative from the left to the political and economic model of this government is not to ask for millions of dollars. Creating an alternative from the left to the Government is no more than accepting the budgets in exchange for a few million. It is going through a real political turn that is not going to be with the Budgets. What we said a year ago applies to these 2020 budgets in the opinion of Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita and, therefore, this remains our opinion and position. After several years of economic growth, social inequalities are increasing in Euskadi, as noted in the Survey of Poverty and Social Inequalities. Therefore, we do not share the model, it is not our model. It is a budgetary model that enhances the unjust and unequal development of our country. A model based on the transfer of public resources to the private through concerts and contracts that then facilitate the generation of clientelism and even corruption. It's a model that punishes the working class. I have been heard many times about this issue. There is no need to create quality jobs, but only to promote temporary jobs through subsidies. And above all, in Euskadi, the income of capitalist owners and the profits of large companies are becoming more and more important, while the income and income of the working class are becoming less and less important. This is an objective fact which they have recognised in this Parliament both the Social Economic Council and the Council for Labour Relations. In Euskadi, capitalists are gaining more and more, while workers are gaining less or losing more and less. In view of this, the Government granted the People's Party a reduction in corporate tax in exchange for the approval of budgets, while on the left it continues to tell us that when we talk about budgets we are not going to negotiate taxation. So, at the risk of being heavy, we again denounce the hypocrisy of this approach. Let us be clear: they do not want tax reforms that help capital and relieve the working class. They prefer the Rementaria model. With this approach, in our opinion, we renounce the use of public policies as a real tool for the distribution of wealth, relegating them to cover the basic needs of the population through public services where the private has more and more presence. We continue, therefore, to say the same as other years: these are not our budgets, these are not left-wing budgets. We, of course, do not share the Budgets, nor do we share the agreement reached by our fellow Members of the parliamentary group. Neither do we need nor are we going to overact. We believe that with the maintenance of our position, with our speech and with our sense of vote, we are consistent and will continue to work for the unity of the left, because this is also an indispensable requirement to change those logics that we say we want to change and that we said we wanted to change when we arrived in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u6	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Next, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u7	Good morning, congressmen, president, chief department. The debate of this day cannot be understood if it does not raise its eyes, and consider what takes place outside this legislature, and still more beyond this political province. Neither politics nor economics have been able to give us the security we need for the past few years. A lot of people suspect more and more protection, seeing what decisions are made in politics, and what kind of debates are there. And the result is that it arises from a worse opinion, sometimes from politics. This global instability, like economic crisis, causes doubts in Eukarian companies and families. More and more frequent and closer. The facts show a great deal. The predictions of economic growth are constantly reconverted, we have lower numbers to give lower numbers. In 2018, you know, it's like, you know, you know, it's like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, 20181, you know, you know, A few weeks ago, some of the data showed that it's going to go up %1,7%. That's six to ten. And 1,4 points less than predicted in May. Besides this, the external and inward professors have fallen and the families are more and more difficult to save. He must seek his way from the Euskakia to face the great challenges of this generation, as in order to win the equality of men and women, to adapt them to the production of climate and production. But, further, we have also our own circumstances, which belong to society and to the structure of its economy; the small rate of birth, the reception, the preparation of the emigrants, the increase of poverty, the want of the poor of the young to acquire the house, and the want of hope of the work. There is no doubt that we are living at a time when the way in which we face global challenges and our own challenges will lay the foundation for the Euskadi of the future. Therefore, Basque politics faces the same dilemma as global politics: stagnating in fossilised debates or moving forward. Immobilism or impulse. And political forces must decide what position they should take in the construction of the future. Whether to stand aside, confronting and noting the failure of any decision and policy with which one disagrees; or to be an active part, developing proposals to shape the future from the principles that are defended. For instance, we've been asking for a conversation two years to solve the conflict in the state country. But, no doubt, dialogue must likewise serve as a matter of the essence of politics, the other as a preparation, the emergency of climate, equality, or the right of women, and the cohesion of society and of the country. And, of course, conversation is the minimum you can ask for political forces, seeing what a financial crisis we're in. At a time when some old recipes and policies always start to fail, I sincerely believe that the responsibility of the Basque political forces, from the difference and political diversity of this House, is to be able to develop the best solutions to situations that prevent us from moving forward as a country. And I think this is the key: agree to move forward. We understand that the political and social moment, both Basque and state or international, demands a high level of vision from the parties to build together. There is growing disaffection, fatigue and citizen perception that political parties are part of the problem and not part of the solution. And in Elkarrekin We want to do politics that debate and solve everyday problems, sustained by our principles of transformation. Over the past three years we have made clear what our priorities were as opposition and what were the challenges of Euskadi. Those who read the budgetary agreement that we have reached with the Basque Government will have no doubt that the €201.5 million of the agreement bears the imprint of Elkarrekin We can: social protection, public services, feminist policies, fight against the precariousness and green transformation of our productive model. We do not conform or lose sight of the Euskadi we want to build, but, with the budgetary agreement reached in 2020, we have a direct influence on the political lines through constructive opposition. This is what we were born for: To make politics that are closer to people's everyday. And these budgets will serve to overcome Euscadi's concentration. We've taken a first step to adapt ourselves directly to certain varying and complicated conditions. We have a very cool result from the policy of management in 2008: high rates of unemployment, homeless, child-punciation, child-punching, the reduction of public services, the downfalls and labour-prefeet. During these ten years the economy has not been restored, the employment has not been completely restored, and even the power of buying families has not been restored, and in the crisis in which the late years' politics of the United States may be red-skinned, and with it their own people and their mass of production. Elkarrekin Podemos is a force that was born from social dramas that left the management of the last crisis. And we are determined to work on solvent measures, so that this time the economic recession will not leave anyone in the way. We have managed to include measures such as the 4% increase in GIR, twice as much as initially proposed, which allows us to be facilitators of a total increase of 7.5 % per year in 2020, 8.5 % for pensioners. We have also managed to start taking steps towards free education from zero to three years, reducing the rates of the haurreskolak And, concerned about the possible deterioration of the quality of primary care in Osakidetza, we have managed to open 92 places for physiotherapists, nurses and other professionals to improve care in health centers with more needs. As well as specialized mental health units for children and adolescents. In order to protect Basque SMEs and companies, we have managed to create a EUR 10 million fund for the stabilization of viable businesses and SMEs that may be in difficulty due to economic instability, reactivation and digitisation measures for small local trade and several items intended to support autonomous people. To make it easier for our young people to build a life project, measures are included to facilitate their access to housing in the face of real estate speculation, to combat job insecurity in Uberized sectors, to facilitate the employability of young people and to deal with the ludopathy that spreads around our neighbourhoods as a result of gambling and gambling. And without losing sight of the crisis, we've been able to influence it in the direction of these budgets. Thus, for the first time, some of our great challenges in society will be recognized. It's one of the social collapses that connects directly with people and countries most highly affected by the effects of this crisis. There won't be a future if we can't get through the cracks of our society and country in this Euskade two-speed Euskade. As the FOESSA Foundation recently pointed out in the report for Caritas, social inequality is growing in Euskadi, which is already one of the most unequal autonomous communities. 334,000 people are at risk of social exclusion and more and more people are living in poverty despite receiving a wage. Jobs are increasingly precarious as Euskadi loses innovation capacity and leadership in social policies, such as in new strategic sectors such as digitisation or sustainability. There are territories, such as rural areas and smaller Basque municipalities, which are particularly affected by this situation with fewer infrastructure, less investment and worse services. The indifference that some institutions can exert in the face of this situation is a burden for Euskadi, which does not allow us to move forward as a country. And we are sure our agreement will increase the cohesion of a society and country which is our object. The public service will improve them. Besides, in public education, it's going to be a strong investment. It will increase social armor. It's gonna give you a chance to get worthy of it. He will fight the presence. It will make the housing more accessible, especially for people who most need it, and in countries, where they are supported by the presidency and programed for the most part, without work for those who are for a long time. We must also move towards the feminist Euskadi, free from the macho violence to which we aspire. The 21st century is moving forward. Effective equality of women in our society is a challenge that cannot wait any longer. In recent years the Euskadi feminist movement has taken unprecedented momentum, bringing life to the centre of political priorities and demonstrating that Euskadi aspires to be a feminist country. And from Elkarrekin Podemos, we have been working with that same determination for four years to bring Basque institutions to the height of time. But there is still a lot of work to be done and there is no time to waste. Today in Euskadi there are still 15 sexist assaults a day and 6,659 women have to live under the protection of Ertzaintza, while almost half of the domestic assaults remain unreported. Institutions should treat victims of sexist violence decently from the moment they suffer, and focus on prevention in order to prevent another 30 murders, such as those committed in the last decade, from happening in the decade leading up to 2020. With this agreement, we have succeeded in adopting a package of 15 measures with which the Basque Government is committed to improving the systems and protocols for the care of victims of male violence with greater budgetary investment, and to allocating resources for the prevention of such violence. On the other hand, we cannot deny or forget that Machist violence has its origin in economic and social inequality. We have therefore considered it a priority to include measures that will serve to promote quality and stable employment for women, to promote their recruitment in highly masculinized sectors, to improve the employability of professional women, and to initiate the social distribution of care so that we can promote another way of socially organizing the work of care, which today is largely and often invisible to women. For example, with the Elkarrekin Zaintzen plan or the measures already mentioned to advance towards the gratuitousness of the haurreskolas But novelty is not only in those specific activities which I have alluded to. For all the measures in which this agreement is formed will pay special attention to the difference between the women of Eukadin and the men, in order to turn it over to him, and in the case of the case of the parties to take the proper measures. That is to say, 201.5 million agreed on, all will be invested with the genus view, in order to contribute to the equality of men. There's also another challenge from Euskika with the emergency of the climate. And we need to have a economy without contagious emissions. The main institutions of Euskadi have already assumed the magnitude of this challenge and the consensus of Basque society to face it urgently and ambitiously. It is, therefore, the time to move from words to deeds. It's time to act. For Elkarrekin We can act means to undertake structural transformations that serve to improve our welfare quotas, building a country as sustainable as it is socially just. The sooner we do this, the more feasible it will be to meet our climate commitments in time and to seize as a country the opportunities to lead sustainable and innovative sectors. But for this to happen, it is necessary to reach comprehensive agreements that will enable us to overcome the continuism and unlock the resources necessary to make progress. Since this challenge cannot wait any longer, from Elkarrekin We have sat down to work on that basis and we have managed to improve the initial proposal with items that turn the Basque budgets for 2020 into the basis for an ecological transformation of the Basque economy that leaves no one behind. Firstly, we have managed to get the Basque budgets to stop rowing in the opposite direction, that is, to stop wasting the money of all by exploring new sources of polluting fossil energy. We want this money to be able to be invested in developing renewable energies and for the Basque Government to exercise its responsibility to lead the transformation. To this end, we have managed to include budget allocations to prepare businesses, families and institutions for a pollution-free horizon, for example by opening a €90 million funding line for energy sustainability projects, a plan to install 1,000 solar roofs in one year and awareness-raising campaigns. But also including measures to protect Euskadi from the increasingly viable effects of the climate crisis, with updated prevention programmes and flood maps or research for adaptation of the primary sector. I think we can proudly say it's a good deal. Firstly, because it unlocks a dialogue of the deaf that, in a way, has been dragging itself for a long time and threatened to settle in Basque politics. It is shown that agreements are reached when there is a will to do so. I believe that both the Basque Government and Elkarrekin We understand that at the gates of 2020 it was up to us to explore new ways to build and undertake the necessary transformations so that Euskadi does not stand still in the face of the challenges ahead. Faced with this, I have to thank the attitude of Councillor Azpiazu and, therefore, of the Basque Government for accepting and facilitating the priorities and objectives of Elkarrekin We can in this process, as well as for understanding the added value brought to us by the proposals we were putting on the table. Freshness and innovation to tackle the most important issues we have on the political agenda, as well as a negotiating process that, in my opinion, has been exemplary. This will have a right and true influence over people with an increase of incomes, a descent applied to childres, the units that are specialised in the mental health of children and young men, and the measures of more depth and depth, which make a foundation for making changes in the exquisite beauties which are essential to the Eucade. We're talking about today, about surprise and recognition. For what purpose and in many parts we drag him into the revolutions of organizational inertia. I'm just trying to know how the change in the climate will affect our production system better. So that we can design the transition and adaptation in the best way. I'm also talking about reconnoitring the machista of violence, of today and of evaluation, so that the contrivances which are now to be designed may be more effective. It is evident that many actions must have been already active, but they are indispensable. And though many have despised such measures, yet I think that this agreement will serve to pass in some parts. It is clear that in many cases they are actions that should be taking place for a long time now, but they do not cease to be essential. And although many have disregarded these kinds of measures, I think they are a good sign that this agreement will serve to move on to action on certain issues. And, no doubt, this agreement also serves to generate trust in society. Trust that there are political forces capable of understanding each other, reaching agreements and making the country move forward despite ideological political differences, fleeing from "and you more" and destructive criticism. I know what he's asking is the part of Podemos by making this deal together. Many things have been said, sometimes of the ideological ortodoxia. And I don't think we're in that political and social time. I'll say now: There's no fear of Podemus if he goes on from Euská to a new stage together, because we're bound to understand each other by the necessity of political forces. Obviously speaking to each other is more difficult than confronting each other, and negotiation is more difficult than criticism. But we take this responsibility on ourselves, for that is how our society will go on, and we shall end with this supposition and decay which the citizens suspect. This agreement shows that we have the capacity and the will to get things done, to get something to happen beyond what has been written for a long time in a script that urgently needs to be updated. I think it helps to make it clear that Elkarrekin We can worry about people's daily problems and that it has come to provide solutions, and that it is helping Basque politics evolve and advance. In short, in politics ideas are measured by their ability to carry them out, and from Elkarrekin We have always had this clear. That is why we have decided to do everything in our power to improve people's day-to-day lives, and it is a pride to say that thanks to this commitment we have managed to drag the Government into courageous policies that a few months ago might seem unthinkable. And that's the main task that progressive parties have, to draw every day the country we want. And I want to end up being clear. These budgets are not the ones that would have developed Elkarrekin We can in case of governing, but this is a necessary agreement for the people, as it marks a path towards new models of well-being. And it is the task of the Government, but also of all progressive forces, to contribute to the expansion of these models and to serve as the compass of the country we want to become. That's why people brought us here, to improve their problems now, not in four years. And from Elkarrekin We can, in that task we will meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u8	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u9	Good morning. Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Today, there are the latest budgets of the law on the table and they're waiting to start the new legislation of Madrid. For the last four years PNV has not ceased to look at Madrid: the first PP and this time, as a guest, in competition with the left hand of the State. PNV and PSEmus, who are here in the government, have joined the Podemos, who, as they said so recently, were not in the political state to be their crutch. But on account of the possibility of being in Madrid's government, there has been no doubt of the policies that have been criticised here for years. Again, the conduct of the States of the United States, which raises the interest of the State, the Gipulia, and the interests of the people of Aban, is known by the old. These are the budgets for the latest year of the PNV and the PRS government, and as they have said: "unos presupuestos para dar cumplinento al accerdo de masterebilad, para cucuminar el plan delegisatur." I mean, the budgets that are being answered to the government plan are coming out of here today. This is very clear indeed from the Thane, as well as from the spokesman of PSE. And even today, PSE's spokesman turned him over. The parties that support the Government, and even the Government itself, have made this clear in recent weeks: these budgets are ultimately implementing their governance agreement, their parliamentary agreement. Thus, they come to agree with Euskal Herria Bildu: these budgets follow the same path as always, they are continuous budgets. As was to be expected, sincerely, Mr. Martínez. It was to be expected in the last year of the legislature. They have the same bases and lines of action. And, ultimately, they are the same recipe that PNV and PSE have been applying in recent years, with no new footprints and no new steps in any new direction. This is the reality of these budgets, the usual recipes, eternal policies, and the same direction, though it is obvious that this people have a number of new challenges. This week, I'd like to hear from you about the year after the end and stabilization of economic motels. But on the level of the world, the instability series is still visible and the dangers have not disappeared. A lower rate of hopelessness makes the Government use of it as a good argument, when we know that the active population descends, and that, although there are the same number of workers, it naturally improves the rate of unemployment, not as a result of the activity of this government. From the view of macro numbers, it is obvious that our economy increases less and less, that manufacturing is a crude reality for so many workers. In fact, temporary contracts are above 90%. And the industrial sensor's relative weight is very low. We can't forget what's going on today, for instance, at the very moment of the climbers. That's why we want to send a big hug to the people who fight there. You use macronomical data over and over to cover this reality. The growth of raw internal product, years of year, goes down and goes on for the next year, in the words of fun. And when we examine its supplements, there are very disturbing signals, the expense of the houses, the expense of public administration, and, which is the most important, although the mass of capitals is growing crude and slow. The basis of all this is the trust of the economists. This isn't much to be predicted from fun, but the trust index of the families has gone down, exactly eight o'clock in the third quarter of 2019, compared to the previous one. Not to mention, if we look at the offer, where all the sectors are going to slow down. And it's very serious for industry only to anticipate the growth of %1. If that's the engine of our economy, we're going very badly. With your pretty ones, the growth of the raw internal product is becoming worse and worse. And there's too many people staying behind in our town. From the crisis in 2008, differences and social cracks increase, and these budgets don't do the right thing to do. We've been trying to run that in the transmitation of these budgets, as well as in partial corrections, by proposing the "Modal policy" and financial policy, in order to negotiate with the state in the framework of the Community Confederation, to strengthen the investment and expense of public, to prevent the reductions and paralysis which have been exposed for years, and to respond in a manner to ecological, industrial, and social challenges. But you refused. Social changes, ecological challenges, defations of poverty, the accumulation of social differences, digitalization, and new economic challenges require a new transformation. They demand a bold spirit of public politics. But these budgets have other priorities. This government has other priorities. To this it is impossible to answer with the same policies applied for years, and much less with the constitutive funds we have today placed on the table. The motto of the more social budgets – a motto, by the way, built on a rather liberal reading of them – is no consolation for the more than 334,000 people who are in a situation of social exclusion in Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Araba, for the more than 113,000 unemployed, of whom more than half are of long duration. And what about the unemployed over 45, who received through the popular party's famous reform a free dismissal as a gift after a lifetime dedicated to work. We're facing a political choice in social politics. The government has decided, strategically, the boundaries of the investment and expense around the social armor. That's settled. And it is by no means necessary to improve the conditions of life which most require, and to prevent poverty. Although you've agreed to some efficient promotions, and you've done a magic game with numbers, it's a cut that you've agreed on, which keeps track of the reductions in years. The real fact is that PNV, PSE, and Podemos, have not in this agreement to socialize you in 2008, and that you have not taken any precautions to comply with it at all. And so they will charge less than 230 a month, as well as those who are benefited by them, and 253 less for the benefit of pensioners. In 2020 you foresee less money for DSBE than 2019, but you don't pay any attention to those who aren't out of the system, and who need to go into the system, or people and families that don't grow out of poverty, in order to live better. This government is pleased that it succeeds in various indexes, although we are in the lower and lower grades, and in the field of society, where several nations have passed over us. In relation to the RGI, however much magic trick they do with the numbers, the reality is that Podemos has renounced the claim of compliance with the law of 2008 and has chosen to whitewash the cuts, to give continuity to the policies promoted by the government of Patxi López, that famous PES-People's Party pact, that pact that served to implement neoliberal policies such as the famous RGI cut. You, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, have moved to a space of comfort where the needy classes really have a bad time. You're where they said you'd never be. With this agreement, you, all the signatories of the agreement, with one hand strangle the options to get out of the poverty of hundreds of Basques and Basques, while with the other hand you leave the door open for the renters who have forgotten to return partially to the country what they get out of it every day, for dying of a misunderstood fiscal competitiveness. This is also given by the new comrades of Podemos. The social gap is widening, social inequalities are increasingly evident, our society is increasingly long-term and their care needs are growing, but you still have old prescriptions. This government and its new allies keep the social policy dossier in order to keep coming out well in the picture. But this picture is becoming more blurred every day, because this country loses its entirety in the fight against social exclusion or the guarantee of the well-being of citizens, without facing the new social realities properly while other territories advance with new policies. You live on rent and this strategy is not going to last you forever. You continue to use as a budgetary achievement, and this morning I have heard, the weight of social items, something which, I read textually: "is the result of the inter-institutional competition distribution model". That puts in the memory of this Government, it is the result of the model of competition distribution; therefore, it is not the result of a political election, it is not the result of a political will. And that's what you're doing, defining slogans for the sale of your budget project following the trends of the moment, but instead of listening to the people on the street to respond with bold policies, you choose to stay in the picture. And that's what they've done again this year. Faced with the impossibility of using the motto of "the greatest budgets of history" you have chosen "the fight against climate change and the gender perspective" as a brand image, of a white mark, so that it serves the same for a break as for a breakup. In fact, of empty brand, of absence of total color, and at least as empty of contents as this budget is. This year, you've been using the stupid budget that has been used against "general view and climate change." That's what's been about. The government has vainly attempted to explain that these budgets are reformers, and that this year they're betting firmly against the equality of the genera and climate emergency. And for that reason they have had no shame to describe the games already in their budgets as noveda, or, which is the worst, counting the games that have no relation to these ends, or the games which have a nulo. And to the data I refer myself. After denying it in committee, Mrs Tapia, who is present here, we note by her reply that the Government counts, within the actions for a sustainable Euskadi, the 100 and a half million TAV and the southern railway variant, which are the commission for the management of the State and therefore are not even direct investment of the Basque Government. They also have urbanisation works for more than 5 million euros, a stabilization of a hillside in Erandio – near my village – for more than 3 million euros, or a Renovation plan of cars in which, it seems, also those of diesel and gasoline can enter. You have painted green, as a policy action against climate change, many games that are continuity of the model that has failed at the last climate summit in Madrid. They have wrapped in a blanket of new items that already existed and, instead, have chosen not to fulfill the mandate of this Parliament, the mandate of the Energy Sustainability Act to constitute this year, sorry, in 2020, a financial tool for the support of local entities with a minimum amount of 100 million euros to facilitate the investments of local administrations. This government is going to violate a law of this Parliament voluntarily and, in turn, they are trying to sell as an achievement the budgetary agreement with Podemos that makes that 100 million endowment go to us until 2027. That is, you voluntarily postpone an investment in a real change, in exchange for a makeup without borders, typical of governments very fond of fireworks. It's about Genero-view to examine the product that you sold. In that case, too, you're in a bad way using numbers. And that's not going too far to see it, but just reading its reports. In the press and Power Point, there was a total of 1,200 million a year. And in examining the report of the genus report, 330.5 million remains. That's the real amount. The rest, until the 1,200 million, belongs to the pretty ones in the process of involvement in the genus view. Those in the process, those that are not completed. That's two percent of the entire budget, eight-to-three, including the gender view, which it claims to be in its documents, and not the 10 percent published in public and the colors of Power Point. All these data shows that these budgets are not greener than last year, and that they are no more feminist than they are last year. The package is equal, content not changed. Envoltorium Because what they have done with the small changes they have made to the budgets following the government agreement with Podemos, is nothing more than to cement what was already coming from the PNV-PSE agreement, beyond expanding the allocation of existing items and, therefore, already existing plans – indeed, some of them with years of inefficiency contrasted with their high levels of budget failure. Beyond giving the Government the perfect base to fail to comply with laws, introducing small items for various undefined plans, campaigns and studies and, of course, pointing out as achievements issues already initiated or implemented by the Basque Government itself –like the creation of a rental price reference index, which has already been awarded to the UPV since last November – its budget agreement has been a bubble lace job to dress a signed agreement long before budget numbers were on the table. These 2020 budgets have had a huge marquetin campaign from AGREY but also from Podemos. You wanted to sell a serious change from Podemus, and today you said that. You said today that with your agreement, it transcends competition in Euka, and that it takes the right course to take the first step in the right direction. But they don't even buy it from you, your new companions. You see, EAJ's spokesman said, at the Ogage Committee of the week past, to the thread of the benefit of Podemos's corrections: "Alreadys in PNV's ideological base are under an extra push. And this makes us happy because it means we can have a social organization in the Basque Country." That was the P.N.V. rep. to the point of correcting. I don't have much more to say, really. This is the budgetary picture presented to us. A panorama that Councilman Azpiazu – who has left us... Oh, barkatu! has changed site – defines it as realistic, responsible and in line with the competition framework. It seems that this is the only one, since everything that comes out of the framework that you do, that you define and that you plot, you define it as unrealizable and out of the competitive framework. One way, let me tell you, it's pretty easy to clear balls – which I know perfectly well he likes football – and to play outside the game to those we defend that we want to own the ball. Look, the Catalan Government, although it does not have the competence to set the minimum wage, has recently announced its proposal for a minimum wage of EUR 1,239.50 – I do not want to be mistaken – which it will apply to the salaries of the Generalitat's own workers, to public contracts and to offer it as an index to the social partners to use it in the collective negotiation of agreements or framework agreements. The Counsellor From Euskal Herria Bildu we say that there is another possible budgetary panorama. Each and every one of our proposals has its place in the competition framework. They are part of the budgetary economic framework because they are realistic, responsible and measured proposals. Proposals to defend a country's own framework, a country in movement, a country in continuous transformation. And I have to start from the economic frame to represent this landscape. To answer our challenges as a people, to give aside the extreme policy of election and to force new economic policies is a necessary premise. To be responsible for public management, deficit, debt, and expense, public policies are initiatives to support, to create social necessity and economic development. They cannot at all be a straitening obstacle or shirt that prevents us from answering the reality of our country properly. But unfortunately, we're in this situation, which you've chosen. Public statements have been made by the Government by proclaiming the necessity of changing the prosecutor's frame, and receiving welcome from us. And we have laid down a proposition to give this proclamation on the table. But you reject our rights once more. Who knows why? Perhaps our rights as a people to account for the mutual intercourse of your parties in Madrid as a people, which we know as a people. Maybe that's it. Our proposal is the reflection of an alternative political project, a proposition which has started from the legislature itself and from a diagnosis which we have shared with society, and which is founded on the plan of resisting the roots of the Basque society. It's a realistic plan, a logical and coherent effect of our economic activity for a few budgets that aren't ours. It is a proposition of several Axes, considering the want, pensions, and other conditions of labour, which are the chief cares of society. In spite of the reality-realized eating of fun, if there's bad quantum and quantum data around the job, Mr. Chief. The rate of unemployment on the 10th is complete for a country with a level of economics or fortune like ours. We are placed in European cars by this rate of unemployment. Until the villages bordering on our range of wealth have about 6% of them. The number of personnel has reached the stage when the crisis began, for the first time we are touching historical ceilings. The rate of unemployment is going down, but the situation is far from before the crisis. There's almost a double rate of unemployment in 2008 right now. On the other hand, the premeditation of employment, the universal preparation is already undeniable. The Chief of Staff Force, lately speaking of the quality of employment, said that we had a problem with soledats. Hence, in this strategic area, where the present distortion is corrected and the attention of the people is dominant, it becomes indispensable to advance, by cancelling the margins, and by developing the leadership and initiative by significant public policies. For this purpose we place several proposals on the table: in all the contracts that are employed with public money, the commitment to the minimum salary of the 1,200 euros, the plan of promotement in young people of quality, of carefuling long-term labourers, or of promoting collective enterprises. We also know that the struggle against climateal change will be determined for a great amount of time in the energy area. That's why it's important to make bold decisions in this area, and to force new measures and to create financial tools to encourage investments in local administration. In particular, to accept the Euskal People of Euskal to accept the Euskal law of Euregetic patience, it was established that they should comply with the conditions: A speeding of 100 million dollars' worth of quantum or quantum leap into the goods we've been developing. It is necessary to take measures in the field of innovation and industry to face the new economic technology context, to give special attention to regions which, as we know, are suffering the hardest side of the crisis. In this strategic bet to win the future, to track to 3% of the raw internal product research and development of the main companies, to unite their commitment or to transfer digitalization to small and middle companies. The policy for equality last time consists of ivory, but it is impossible to advance in the course of equality without taking any changeable decision about the watch pattern. For this purpose we make several proposals, including the creation of a fund for rethinking of women who have been employed in the care-works, and a set of measures to protect the rights of the house-workers, in order to improve the quality of their work conditions. As for the protection system, our society must be exemplary to protect and protect our people. To do this, it is essential to put an end to the period of reduction, and to employ our powers as a whole in regard to the protection of the pensioners. Here we propose several measures: a special contribution to the pensioners who have their income days, to raise unseasonable additionals, to regulate the information and endurance of the pensioners' rights to form low pensions, or gradually to abolish the reductions of incomes. With these great shafts we have proposed several other measures, in order to answer the needs of society and the new challenges of our economy, for example: to promote the fertility of young people in order to develop a pilot project of the basic income, to protect the small trade, to improve the budget of the Basque Country University, and, of course, to strengthen the fund for development by a purpose of 7%. But today you will approve a budget with new fellow travellers. And the truth is they want to make Basque society believe that with these new fellow travellers these budgets take a first step in a new direction. The truth is, I don't know if it's to heaven or somewhere else. But the leadership has not changed and neither has the position of this Government. A government announcing this week the advent of a new era of stabilization, when an environment of political and economic turbulence persists. The truth is that this government's desire for the budget market has no limits. And they've even taken advantage of the festive holiday effervescence to strain their world of light and color between Christmas shopping news and Olentzero parades on the turn Teleberri. It's all very proper, really. And this government is still comfortable, it's still comfortable in the valley. The counselor already knows what I'm talking about. They are still walking in the valley but this country of mountain tradition needs to climb the mountain because from the valley you never see what is on the other side. And in spite of all this, in spite of all this panorama, we are still here. EH Bildu continues here with his hand extended and with the hope that we will address the great challenges we face: the crisis of the energy model that sustains an unjust country, the employment model that precariously prevents and, by extension, avoids the possibility of having decent pensions in the not too distant future and, last but not least, an exhausted territorial model that is now only defended by a moderate king, in the words of his new travel companions members of the Government, and some political mummies, like some Natural Gas advisor who resists coming out of the picture. We are still waiting for them to leave the photo to work discreetly for some important agreements for this country. For our part, we will try to keep agreeing to transform. And not to do what you have done again, to, by changing the ball of cubicle, remain in the same place as usual. Budgets can also be an emancipatory tool and sometimes even a defensive law against interference or external impositions. In his hand he is passing this path and not delving into an exhausted framework as much as they have it of purple and green, since in the background, as we all know, it is still grey. These budgets follow the usual course of PNV and PSE, the pattern followed in years, the inadequate pattern, and the lack of any romances we want. And in that way, though slowly, we're going back. In this sense, Poseidon's contribution has been vain. In order to question his political project, neither purple nor red, nor to strengthen the political project of PNV, which is green, because this contribution has not produced any change of structure. We shall continue to claim the leadership of public policies in the presence of euscal society. And on the way we confirm the commitment to place the budget policy in the right direction to put the changes of structure on the table. And I want to finish, I know I have only a few seconds left, but I want to finish this speech, as it is on 27 December, with two congratulations. First of all, I would like to congratulate the PNV and the PSE Government, and especially Councillor Azpiazu. In October they brought us a draft budget and today they will approve a draft budget which in 99.25% is exactly the budget they brought in October. We can support 99.25 % of the budget agreed by the PNV and the Socialist Party. That, and not another, is the reality of this budget. Secondly, from the utmost respect, we would like to congratulate the parliamentarians of Ezker Anitza. Consistency and loyalty to principles always deserve to be commended.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u11	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, lords and ladies of the department, Mr. President, good morning. Now I will go one by one to examine and to answer certain things, but I would like to explain or present the dictation which will be tried or approved to-day. In fact, it's a long way to go, it's a long way. It's a long way. It's a long way. They've been working on it for hours, especially together with the Podemos, with the government, and together with the Podemos. And sometimes, when we're involved in everydayity, we need to stop a day like today and look at things a little in perspective. And what has happened during these months is a very important quantum change to our country, and it is that Podemos has passed along the most efficient part of the opposition in this country or influyente. The Budgets Act that we are going to adopt today will be the financial and stability framework that will make it possible to create 11,500 jobs next year, the framework that will lower the unemployment rate by 9%, the framework where debt is to be reduced by less than 12%, the framework where Osakidetza and quality and universal public education are to be maintained and guaranteed, for more than half of the budget. And in this area, we have two main challenges: the first is to maintain, sustain that 86% of citizen satisfaction among Osakidetza patients – for this they will be allocated 141 million euros more – and in Education, to maintain the record low drop-out rates, enhancing and further improving excellence to improve in the upper layers of it, right? These budgets will therefore be the framework that will sustain the Government's commitment to a robust welfare state. In the field of social protection, we still have 85% of the Basques who live well, who have sufficient resources to live a dignified life, and the other side of the coin remains that we have 15% at risk of social exclusion. We are and continue to be better than the state and better than the European average. But we have to be alert, given that progress, digitisation of the economy, robotisation, large waves of immigration – which are positive for well-being – must be followed closely because they can have a centrifuging effect on employment that drives out of that 85% platoon people who may find it difficult to adapt to the new profiles that the new times require. These budgets will ultimately be the budgets of economic and political stability, job creation and solidarity between the Basques. For those who are not reached by this creation of 16,500 jobs this year and 11,500 next year, this budget reflects in the employment 275 million to boost employment via Lanbide, 22 million for local employment plans or 10 million to boost employment employment in disadvantaged regions, in addition to an entire economic system that is enhanced from the various bodies of the public administrations – the Government, the deputies and the municipalities – so that the economy of Euskadi is, as a whole, powerful and offers opportunities, so that it continues to serve this social elevator that historically, or at least in the last 40 years, we have enjoyed in Euskadi. As we now enter the amendments, I shall start with the People's Party. Well, the story of the People's Party has been similar. I have been able to literally write down one of the sentences: "the government wants a domesticated citizenship", "this is a government of officials and for officials", "there is a lot of current spending", in short, we talk about subsidies, paguitas, unnecessary chiringuitos... And reality dictates the opposite. In this couple of weeks we've had since we last discussed this, I've been able to gather some information. The first is that Euskadi is one of the communities with an official-per-inhabitant ratio content. That is why I have come to the report by the Secretariat of State and Public Service – so that you can give it all the credibility – to the Statistical Bulletin of Staff at the Service of Public Administrations. – it does so in conjunction with the Banco de España – and here it is indicated that on January 19 there were 2,578,388 public officials in the state, 2 and a half million, we will round it up, and in Euskadi 117,496, that is, making a simple rule of three comes out that we have 4.45 % of the officials of the total of the state for a population of approximately 5.5% and an economy of 6.4%. True, it is true that corrective factors will have to be included because the Army, for example, is not distributed equally throughout the State. The data will have to be corrected, but of course it does not indicate that we are facing a mastodontic state that feeds the official class of this country. The second is that more than half of Mr Erkoreka's budget, almost 50 million, is devoted to the digitisation of the Administration, in spite of him, because in his amendments they want to remove the computer software or part of the computer software for more than 3 million euros. But this government is working on digitization, which is the future of the administration. The tax rate in Euskadi is below the European Union. This is true, we could discuss it too, we can talk about that the biggest differential is in indirect taxes and VAT. One can argue, but of course we also have a contained tax rate, enough to maintain the welfare state we currently enjoy. And finally, the fourth dice. This is a budget that invests more than EUR 1 billion in investment. And the truth is that it would invest just over 1 billion, because with the Budget Stability Act passed in 2012, if you want to update public salaries you have to choose between allocating this increase in collection to the updating of public officials' pay or to investment. Fortunately, over the past two years, in which we have had quite important collection data, we have been able to dodge some of that Stability Act by making significant investments in the form of sustainable investments. The last quarterly report of the Basque economy shows us an economy that continues to grow to 2.1% compared to 1.3% in the euro area, with a rate that continues to fall, I said earlier, we will fall to 9.3 next year with a creation of 15.500 posts this year, of 11.500 next year, and with an industry that continues to grow to 0.7%. It is true that there are sectors, such as services, that are growing even more, but listen, it is still growing. I think we must banish this habit of being always on the horse of Revelation, because the truth is that in the short term, in 12 months of time, we always have to have forecasts. There must be predictions and they are also made conscientiously from economic science, which is a very complex science. But this of continually predicting crisis I would banish it a little bit, because no matter how expensive the economist's tie says it, no one can predict what will happen within 2, 3, 4 years. We have to focus right now, there is some economic stabilization. We have gone through an economy that has galloped in the 18th and 19th as a result of economic recovery. It has also been two years since there has been a certain recovery of purchasing power, something that was also required by the Government, and therefore, well, in the future because it will have to be seen. So soon, we have an adjusted budget, an adjusted tax rate as well and a high investment of more than EUR 1 billion. Among the amendments that you have reserved, I have already put before you here last Monday that you do not show that so-called model of alternative society. By the way, by comparing United States data, for example, in the ratio of civil servants to inhabitants, it is not so far from those of Euskadi. I say this to compare, because you make a speech in which it seems that there is another alternative model where the Administration can be greatly thinned and use that euphemism of current spending. But it is that the current expenditure is basically staff salaries and maintenance of public buildings, which, in short, tells us where it can be cut. He never tells us, therefore, to lower this request a little bit because I already know they won't answer me. In the case of income guarantee income and its insidious accusations, at last, as to the rate of fraud – and in this we must always rely on the data given by the government – when the government says that the rate of fraud in the recipients of GIR is less than 1% I believe we have an obligation not to make demagogic speeches and to stick to reality. And the reality is that the recipients of the guarantee income do not disappoint more than all citizens when we change the windows or when we take the car to the workshop. The rate of fraud is not higher, therefore, stigmatization, falling into that precipice of stigmatization, is very dangerous. This Government and our group will continue to do the opposite. As for the amendments that Euskal Herria Bildu has left alive, you have said that fellow travellers are bad. Look, just two years ago, you came down to this very rostrum, Mrs Pinedo, and we were affronted by the PNV that our fellow travellers – who at that time, in the approval of the budgets, were the People's Party and the Socialist Party – were the parties of the 155, the ones who liquidate the pension system, fail to comply with the stability agreements, fail to comply with the Unity Act, support the failed State that is Spain... By the way, a state that perhaps you now support in that new facilitative facet that you are showing and with those ear to ear smiles that you show in the carpets of Congress. But this year, showing a certain consistency with that speech, we are faced with the fact that we now agree with the third state-level party, Elkarrekin Podemos. And I, let's see, in this Parliament of five parties, the PNV remains in Parliament, neoliberal; the Socialist Party, state; the People's Party, state; and Elkarrekin Podemos, state. Who do you deal with? Who's left? Euskal Herria Bildu? One game, you guys. Well, if you'll just stick to the pact, it's been 40 years since you've been away. You guys climbed into your eyehole again. You've made a costerist social relato, making a list of the hinges we've got. You don't have the game or the euros word To approve these budgets they have asked us three great things, on the one hand, an interprofessional minimum wage of 1,200 euros, which we already affixed to you last Monday – I affixed to your partner Casanova – which they had not applied in Navarre when they passed the law of public procurement, did not include that minimum of 1,200 euros, and which is not in the hands of the government. Last Monday I brought them three items of government appeals to update salaries in Euskadi, but it is true that in the 18th and 19th they have risen above the CPI and, therefore, that last horizon to recover the salaries that existed before 2012, well, it is already being given. Then we are also asked for this general salary increase and pensions of 1,800 euros. And we are being asked to go up, which is not Euskadi's competence, i.e. the three main things they ask of us are not the competence of either this House or this Government. And now that you, as I have already told you, are in that facilitative facet in Madrid, the truth is that you have to leave that insolent teen attitude that looks at the father of the PNV asking him and giving him lessons. What they have to do, now that they have five representatives in Madrid who step on the carpet after a few years out and have that facilitating attitude that is evident – I say it again – in their smiles and their willingness to support a hypothetical investiture of the Socialist Party and Podemos, is, first, to get things for the country and, secondly, to present a service sheet to this country. A service sheet. Which one do you have to present? In recent years, this government and this party – without a precedent I will mix both plans – have achieved a schedule of transfers pending, raise pensions in the 18th and 19th with the CPI, especially and above the CPI for widows, the government has achieved a renewal of the Cup, an agreement for financial stabilization. Anyway, what have EH Bildu facilitators achieved at this time? Absolutely nothing. As far as you've left them alive, I don't know whether to spend much time or not, because I've said before that they're roughly cultivated corrections, and it would be paradoxical for us to spend three hours here discussing them. I don't know how much you've taken to recite them, because they're all very declamative. But what you're asking is to change this society and change it into two% of the budgets. You're criticized by Podemos moving 200 million euros together, because that's painting, and that's not enough. And what you do is move 2%, and when you're in opposition, it changes 285 million places. You offer, as a summary, a sad correction to the Education Department. Professional Education And at the last point, in the circle of equality, you've only confessed the vigilance. What you've done is take a march rudder to its own work and not work to a correction. And what you're proposing about the veins seems to us technically and morally to be an occurity. You often accuse us of euscal oasia, oasis vasco oasis vasco. Alderdi Popularra. Alderdi Popularrari, barkatu, secondotxo bat... Beast hiru gauza esan nahi nizkion. I've left you in half, Mr. Damborenea. I wanted to say to you that I pointed out in your speech a few things, for example, you said that "at the beginning of the legislature, better quality jobs were created than they are now created". Well, all the parameters that define employment are better now. The only questionable can be the rate of indefinite. But everything else, the employment rate is going to come close to 9.3 next year, the salary recovery – I said it already – has started in the 18th, continues in the 19th, let's hope it continues also in the 20th. And the evolution of indefinite contracts marked last year a record of 86,625 years. A record, therefore, man, I believe that it does not depend so much on who is the budgetary partner of the government, but also on the policies that are carried out at the general level and also on the texture, does it not? On the subject of Adostuz, well, you say that "you could split the payment in several years." You could split the payment, but the accounting is done in a single budget, which makes any budget broken. And from the most philosophical point of view, the truth is that we have agreed with Elkarrekin We can lead to collective bargaining and to the future, because the loss of purchasing power suffered by Basque society did not make any distinctions and, therefore, there are still some points, for example, in what it brings to Itzarri, where it can still recover. This must be brought to collective bargaining and we must look to the future, because retroactively, if we begin to cover what was lost at the time, there would be practically no budget for five years, right? Family support already told him last Monday that it has almost doubled since 2012. I brought you the data. This year is about €80 million compared to the 46 million – I'm talking about memory – that were in 2012. And on the subject of the haurreskolak As for the water canon, I do not know if it is a debate the size of this budget debate. We also had this debate last Friday. The truth is that it is a subject discussed and debated. The truth is, you don't raise taxes. What is done is to reduce the rate of the water cannon by 50%. What is going to happen is that it is going to be paid, because the law is currently not being enforced. And one of the three legs, which is the domestic use of water catchments from rivers and springs, is not being fulfilled. But, well, we've already discussed it long and stretched out. I'm not stopping anymore. And in the case of the trienniums, it has somewhat distorted what is actually done. The trienians are not paid to any high office of the Government. The proposal is to be paid to senior government officials who are career officials. And you think this is wrong? Pay is not normally the main attraction for a career officer to take on a senior position. It's not the main attraction. Let us therefore make a responsible speech and do not take this out in order to target the new partner in a framework of budgetary debate, to make it difficult for the new partner to support the budgets. Today is an important day, I say, good budgets will be adopted for Euskadi, which will sustain the economic power of 2020, economic stability and job creation. We're going to do it with a new partner who comes up with pacts of transcendence. And well, beyond the dimes and directs of the debate, I believe that what we are going to demonstrate today is that the policy in Euskadi is different and that we are able to reach cross-cutting agreements between different people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u12	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing on the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Castelo, you continue with the mantra of the duel for Mariano Rajoy. Look, I'm just going to give you one piece of information – that we no longer agree on anything in this year and a half that we carry from this government – the only medium-important law that affects several thousand citizens has been passed the other day with the votes of the People's Party is the Cooperatives Act. I say this for commenting that we refuse to speak and to agree, and that politics is the art of dialogue... Man, politics is the art of dialogue when two want to dialogue. When someone refuses because he already has a pact made with others, why talk to others about taxes or nothing, which is what has happened here, of course, we are as we are. Because, of course, Mr. Martinez was telling us, "today we don't understand that we're here without seeing what's going on outside." Of course, what happened outside six months ago, more than six months ago, in Madrid. Because here are the four groups that are Mr. Sánchez's partners. They're all partners there. There are some cosillas and others that are not, but in the fundamentals, in the importants, in the real thing, the four groups that are here are partners. That's why we're as good as we are. And here they are, for now they raise the tone, but in Navarre what, if they are supporting the same government. Come on, don't! PSOE, PNV and Podemos. Same thing. And of course, Mr. Martinez, you tell us there's money for the haurreskolak. Man, Mr. Arruabarrena, yesterday, I think it was in the post office. When the PNV took the lead in the reins of this country, we were the first. We're not the first, Mr. Lehendakari, I'm so sorry. Man, it's obvious you're not the only one who's been involved. We're 40 long years old now, aren't we? And here we go. But, Mr. Arruabarrena, he tells us, "No, because the macroeconomic picture..." Look, this government, you see, has had too much revenue, which has resulted in a surplus of more than EUR 2 billion, which is said soon. 2 billion euros. Do you know where the money went? To consolidate current expenditure. And you know what it's for? That's what it's called clientelism. Let's see, electorally you will do very well, but to those who are not your clients, very badly. And by the way, most of them aren't their clients. He says, "We're going to boost education with these budgets." Let's see, we are the autonomous community that spends the most on education and the worst results in education. English continues to shine by its absence, by its absence, yes. And our amendments have been rejected. He talks to me about "free and universal." Hey, and why do you have to pay at the concert if it's free and universal? Why do we have to pay? Because in the agreement you have you recognize that it is a right of parents to choose the education of their children. And why do we have to pay? And why do 50% of pupils cost one third of the budget, and the other 50%, which is the public, two thirds of the budget? Do you think it's fair? I don't know, I'm asking. And in this budget that difference is increasing, and also, of course, the salaries of the teachers of the concerted. But that is the social model that you are choosing and that you have changed. He tells me about the officials, that if we have fewer officials, well, not counting the army. Listen, look, I'm going to give you another data, why don't you tell me how many characters we have hired in public, semi-public, participating companies, foundations, organizations, entities, and so on? Add them to me. And that doesn't count to the deputies and municipalities. Add them to me, see how many come out. And then, not to say that in these budgets that you bring half of the budget it is to subcontract out what, theoretically – by the way, finger, is also clientelism with small items to award to finger – they would have to do the officials. And that sub-contracting of things that would theoretically have to be done by staff members, does it enter into the percentage of staff members or does it not enter into the percentage of staff members? What are you talking about? I have not said at any time that we are in economic crisis. But how are we gonna be? Aren't we growing up the way we were growing up? Hey, we're still breaking the collection records, huh? In an economic crisis, the record of tax collection is not broken. Down. In an economic crisis, down. And tell me about the GIR and the fraud rate. Hey, is it fraud to charge RGI and work in black? Is it fraud for you or is it not fraud for you? Because that's what encourages this model. If I've told you before. Sure, how much time do you charge to raise your salary by 200 or 300 euros, working the month or not? This is the model. Hey, you and we, two years ago, pulled the GIR index out of the reference to the minimum wage. Why? He was a model. What have you done now? Increase the GIR by 7%. Listen, for that reason, to have left him the same. If this is what you are doing with this budget. Which is a model change. If you don't want to see him, don't see him. The others see it perfectly. He says, "No, we're not worse off in wages, only in indefinite contracts." Hey, let's see, it's just that the quality contract has two legs. One, A, is indefinite, and B, the salary. No, you're not right, well, only in indefinite contracts. Hey, that's it, I'm not gonna argue with you anymore. It speaks to me of Adostuz, right?, of pre-retired teachers, who are almost all ladies, by the way, so much so that we are talking here about discrimination and the purple, green, blue and yellow amendments. Hey, Mr. Arruabarrena, aren't they saying they've moved 200 million euros this year in the budget? And Mr. Azpiazu hasn't been squared out by any macros? Well, this was less. This is less. 50 million less, the total. And the bill that's in process leaves it at three years. And I do know what his problem is: that, obviously, they do not want to reverse those social cuts that were made. The water cannon. If you tax on taking the river, the swamp, what you want how will you pay more than the one you consume most? That was the function of an ecological tax. She's a collector now. Hey, and don't tell me he's coming down, because you say he's going up. Climbing from one to seven, or from two to seven, is more than 100% and more than 200 %, as far as I know. And with the trienniums, I don't know if you've been in trouble or not in trouble. Officials in the Basque Government already charge trienniums, such as parliamentarians in this Parliament, also charge trienniums. This is not a measure for officials. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. This is a measure for non-officials. So that non-staff members can also collect trienniums from the Government. If you were an official and you were here in the Basque Parliament you would charge your soil plus the trienniums. Because in this country, civil servants are people who do have rights everywhere, when they exercise civil servants and when they do not exercise civil servants. And that's what the Lords of Elkarrekin Podemos are approving. By the way, Mr. Martinez, you haven't answered me. What does it feel like supporting the most corrupt government in Europe in Madrid and the most corrupt one here, here? In any case, as time runs out, I wish everyone Merry Christmas and at least 2020 will leave us as we are.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u14	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours. Castel de sa From the speeches by both the People's Party and EH Bildu, I have not made it very clear what partial amendments you have reserved for this plenary or what their content is. Because, of course, of 30 minutes that Mrs Pinedo has used to explain the position of her party, she has devoted 27 minutes, exactly 27 minutes, to criticizing the attitude of Elkarrekin Podemos. Well, on one side of Elkarrekin We can, that I think it's had a little bit of retrace that end part. I would also not be very happy to be thanked from a rostrum for a separate position from that of the comrades with whom I am day by day. And he has devoted three minutes, three minutes, to the model change, the alternative that EH Bildu represents. An alternative that you were due to forget in 2019 when, by throwing the paw, you began to negotiate with the Basque Government the budgets. Because all that has told me here (I think there have been seven points): minimum wage of 1,200 euros in all public contracts, a shock plan for young people, a shock plan for long duration, a shock plan for entrepreneurship – they love shocks –, a financial instrument, R & D+i, a compensation fund for women caregivers, a pension supplement, a universal emancipation income for young people, a 0.7 of development cooperation... It's just that all this, all this, uh, everything, they forgot last year when they were going in to negotiate. Of green themes not one. You shouldn't have been in the meetings, and not one. They focused on two things. A percentage increase in GIR because the SMI did not even appear – something Elkarrekin Podemos has achieved with the agreement this year – and concrete proposals in employment programs. And that's the point. With the principle of reality of trying to bend over to say that you want to be, how did you say?, "EH Bildu is still here." I was coming here with the song "and I'm still here waiting for you..." Well, that's the one that came to me, because something else... I don't think you guys are gonna make it. They've been there for decades, decades. And never. Hand laid out? For they will have spread it, what I do not know, too, is whether it is to know if it rains or makes sun. But of course, to be useful to the citizens, to influence the policies that are made from the Basque Government, for which they are so concerned about the needs, the challenges, the future, the uncertainties..., for that, nothing. There, in the comfort of your seats. There, as Félix Rodríguez de la Fuente would say, because I didn't see National Geographic, it was more of the chain, you know, state. We're a state party, so I think they just defined us today. Well, there was the brown bear, hibernating, and you guys love that. I from the Serengeti ñu little. The other day, when they said it, I didn't understand it. So it makes me so much fun because you say, "I want to own the ball." Well, that's fine, but do you know what's going on? Whether the balloons give them or sell them to the citizens. And it turns out they don't give them to them. Citizens do not give you the ball to do all that seems to you to be put in your head, logically, when you are in opposition. That when they are in government – ask him when they were in Gipuzkoa, ask him when they were in Navarre – then they already forget. The principle of reality is imposed on them, the ball changes color, changes the space of play and, from there, neither the SMI this Basque or Navarro, at all the 1,200 minimums of contracting, some other question such as applying the state conventions of call center Well, we've been able to see so many inconsistencies also with EH Bildu that, actually, I don't know if it's worth much more. Because, of course, since you have not bothered to defend your proposals either in committee or here... Something that, by the way, also happened with the People's Group. The Group of the European People's Party, in all its amendments, in the 600 and peak amendments, used a tactic that lasted about 30 seconds and is: "We stand for our amendments". 600 and peak. "We stand for our amendments." And here you have come out and have not defended your amendments. You've come to talk about how you're not hurt. Well, in order not to be hurt, he forgot that the Gürtel sentence was not something that affected around there, in a town hall. A political party that was in the government at the time, a president of the government that was being condemned for illegal financing, was condemned for... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u15	Silence, silence. Castel de sa [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u16	Silence. Ruiz de Abulo, silence. Castel de sa That's a little bit what there is. Because you make biribilketa But I could name another nine or ten in which we are, well, fooling day yes day also in the papers, without any argument. Don't point us there. I'll point you there. If I have some colleagues of yours with whom I've been in the paper entertaining myself for about two years, without much progress in the arguments because they don't have them. It's just a question of "not because it's not," and "it's not that it's not." And that's where we're at. And we get here and we say issues that are totally inconsistent, right? We're not in a crisis. Thankfully, I started listening to him today, because a few months ago we were in a terrible, dramatic situation. Of course, we have more collection at IRPF, a tax that has not been touched in recent years, since that pact with you. By the way, in which we were both, personally, in which you know that the date for the new revision is 2020. Whatever it is, in 2020. Data from 19, analysis and the same procedure used in the previous one. And of course, it turns out that the collection by the IRPF is increased – you said – "exponentially". I don't know if it's that exponentially. You know why, don't you? Because there are more people paying taxes and there are better wages, so the IRPF collects more. It's not collected for any other reason. It collects when people work, when there are more people working, and it collects when those people make more money. There is no other mystery of collection. And what does that mean? There is more employment and better quality. That's the argument you're not able to see. The same one that is not able to see with the RGI. Income guarantee income is a social protection system for when you have difficulties, for when you have problems. It is a system of protection that it does that inequalities, those that you do not care about, because they want citizens to be free with what they have and choose with what they can... What he does is to protect these people from living in destitution, to meet their basic needs. And you know, as I know, that since the start of the legislature until now there are fewer RGI collectors, so it's a lie the argument they give that people want to cronify themselves there. And you also forget that there is a part that is maintained because it responds to pension supplements. Pensioners who have a low pension, which is complemented by income guarantee income. And that the active part enters and exits the system according to the fluctuation of the labour market. Therefore, the criminalization that you intend to make of income guarantee income is totally demagogic. And the truth is that I think that weak favor does us with the new protagonists of the political sphere, those to which you do not make many ascos so as to be able to be in some armchairs of some institutions. I, in any case, do not share your model. I don't share lower taxes. And I picked up sentences he said. I don't share seven days of work. I don't like working seven days in a row. I do not agree that there is no interprofessional minimum wage. I believe that workers have the right to a minimum wage for the work they do. I do not share that there must be fewer benefits. I don't share that there has to be less public spending. I don't share that there doesn't have to be services for everyone. I don't share that he chooses only the one he can. I want you all to be able to choose freely without taking into account your economic situation. And for me the fight against fraud is in every respect. I criticise both the tax fraud – of companies, of self-employed persons or of individuals – and the fraud that can be made in aid, both of social emergency and of guarantee income or of any other aid that a public administration can grant. Because the system is for those who need it, not to take advantage of it. But do you know what the difference is between you and us? That you give less importance to tax fraud, and from time to time, in that submerged economy that worries you so much and in that tax fraud that interests you so much, you grant tax amnesties for the outpouring of that black money. And there are, for example, people who have only 700 euros – which you will find great, a divine amount. But people in his group in other institutions and in other areas, did not get the parliamentary salary, did not get the salary of the office they were occupying and were being paid out. And it wasn't 700 euros what they had. Therefore, you have no right, no morality, no ethics, to come and criticize here that 700 euros disincentive to a family to work and live.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u18	Thank you, Mrs. President. Starting with Mr Damborenea, briefly, who has made clear the model of country he wants, but what I do not know if you are so clear is that what you are defending and what your party is defending is far from the social consensus that exists in Euskadi. And that this strategy of going for the votes, the very few votes, of Vox will end up passing him the bill and will end up leaving him on the margins of Basque politics. The world has changed, but the People's Party continues to preach in the 1990s. Neither his speech is credible nor his speech is constructive; he is incendiary, he is classist, he is demagogic, he is xenophobic, he is reactionary and he is immobile. And it's also so full of falsehoods that I'm not even going to bother to fight. Continuing for Mrs Pinedo, I don't think she's the most suitable person to get into anyone's internal affairs, which I think is very ugly, by the way. His speech has been a replica of Euskal Herria Bildu's argumentary, which he has deployed these weeks to legitimately criticize, but in a fierce and incomprehensible way, an agreement that basically knows is good. It is that you have forgotten that last year you started a negotiation process from which you came down at the last minute. Last minute. I mean, it wasn't so bad if they lasted so long. And today we are faced with measures that are in the agreement, which you did not even put on the table on your negotiating platform. Why did they negotiate in feminist policies or in the fight against sexist violence? Or what did they negotiate on measures to combat climate change? Nothing. And I would also tell you to stop twisting and manipulating the numbers on income guarantee income, because there is an irrefutable reality. There is an irrefutable reality, which is that, thanks to Elkarrekin Podemos, people who perceive GIR are going to charge 49 euros more in 2020. How much would Euskal Herria Bildu have improved its purchasing capacity? Zero euros, Mrs Pinedo. Zero euros. So, I don't think it's time to give lessons on this issue, on who works to improve the lives of those who are going through the worst, because 50 euros for a family that can't reach the end of the month is a significant improvement. Enough? Obviously not. That the system is unfair and does not serve to get out of poverty and needs to be reformed? Obviously. We agree. But that is not the budget debate. And we could talk a lot here about the role that each of us has played in the other debate. But what we are appreciating here are Elkarrekin's achievements We can in this negotiation. And it is clear that there are many, that they are varied and that they will reach many people. Is it wrong for you to get rid of the haurreskolas? And we could continue to list measures. Because, I don't know, do you think it's bad news that we've made the government take measures to prevent and protect against sexist violence, that should have been taken long ago and that they're claimed to be the essential starting point for articulating effective policies? It may be that Euskal Herria Bildu does not see what will change the life of families who will benefit from mental health centres for children and adolescents. Or that it would prefer not to increase investment in the network of public schools, such as the People's Party. Honestly, in his criticism – legitimate and respectable, I insist – I think there is very little politics and much demagogy. And I don't think they should give lessons on principles and values. The principles are to use them, so that they come to life in the form of policies and measures. If you want to preserve them in a glass urn it is your decision, but do not question the will to improve the life of the citizens of those who understand politics as a tool to move forward. Even if it is slow, even to a lesser extent than we would like. But at the present political moment there are two options: to stay and give lessons on how things should be, or to walk around and try to change things, even in a less transformative way than we would like. But you have made it very clear in your speech. He has made it very clear how he understands policy and the debate on proposals. He said they want to play with their own ball. That's the problem: they want to own the ball and that if things don't go the way you like them, they take the ball, they take it, they pinch it – depending on the moment – and the game is over. And I honestly say to you that with this attitude this society will not move forward and we will hardly be able to build the country of the future. Because, as I said before, the role that progressive forces have is to be a compass, to continue to transform the world day by day. And calmer, good new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u19	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u20	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Castelo, you've been exacerbated today. But look, do you know what's wrong with you? I've told him on other occasions. You weren't in budget negotiation. None. And you did not listen to EH Bildu's proposals, because you were waiting for the ladies and gentlemen of the PNV to decide and you to mark what these ladies and gentlemen tell you. This is your problem, Mrs Castelo, that you column what others decide. And then he doesn't read EH Bildu's proposals. But that's not my problem, it's yours. Look, you're telling me we're staying in the cave. I told you a long time ago, you know what's going on? That some of us are moving all day. And you, where you're very comfortable is under that blanket, waiting for these gentlemen and these ladies to act. And that little blanket I told you, it was woven with very interesting posts, all placed in the Basque Government. That's the mantita you guys are wearing. And that's the blanket you're afraid of losing, and that's why you've come down here to claim the authorship of this budget. Because that is the problem that the Socialist Party has. Nothing more. Nothing more. Martinez jauna, begira. I read many documents about the budget agreement this day, because of everything to read in this life, beyond literature. And you know what? No sign of the deletion of the cuts from the People's Party that you said you were going to take away. But not one. Not one, not one. I just have a lot to tell you. Look, 4% increase in GIR tells me you. There's one thing that's called budget technique, you know? Look, 4% in the law, economically, zero potato. Ah, because you aspire to fewer perceptors. But there is one thing, when you make a budget you have to stick to what is at that time in reality. And you haven't. Mr. Martinez, I'm on my turn. Otra cosa, child schools, nursery lessons, child schools I don't know, but most of that money goes to pay the salaries of the workers of the Haurreskolak Consortium. Of course, you'll have to make bubbles again, because you don't know, don't do this, because look, I can even believe it, because it's been possible for you. But the Government and the Government's technicians know perfectly well that this had to be in the budgets, in the budget amendments, and the increase in GIR had to be in the budget amendments. And you didn't put it on because then you didn't give them the numbers, Mr. Martinez. E insisto con las children's schools have children's schools. Look, today I was speaking to me in your speech and there was a time when I did not know whether you were listening to Mr Martínez or Mrs Mendia, because you have made the same speech that the Socialist Party has been making in this Parliament about EH Bildu for a lot of years: that if we are not, that if we are not, that if we are not taught, that if we are peppered, that if we are pam. Exactly the same. Look at the minutes of this Parliament. Exactly the same speech. Eta, Arruabarrena jauna, argi dagoena dazuk gaur ekarri duzun discurtsoa idatzita zegoela pentsatuta ez nintzela neither egongo beast village. Hori agerikoa yes. You did not think that the interlocutor today was going to be me, because the questions you said, equally can be valid for your maneuvers in Madrid, but not in this country. Look, when you say we step on carpet and all these things, it looks really nice to you, because you think you're even funny. What happens is that they don't have a lot of fun, in general, when they try to make a joke. But what we're going to do to him, he must be in the party's DNA. But look, today is the anniversary of the death of a colleague of mine, Sabin Intxaurraga, who was a member of the Basque Government, you know? We didn't step on carpets, we worked for this country. And you know what happened? For the Party Law of some of you right now is all day "go up, go down", made that after that it could not continue and could not be worked, apart from what your party did leaving in a drawer an Ibarretxe Plan that, obviously, was no longer interesting for the Basque Nationalist Party. How long has it taken us to make our amendments? Well, we've taken a lot longer than your government to do the Budgets, you know why? Because your government has dedicated itself to copy and paste, with the exception of Mr Azpiazu, because most of the proposals are the same and some of the memoirs even have the same mistakes as in the exercise 19 document, even spellings (and some parliamentarian tells me yes with her head). Exactly the same spelling errors. So, don't you come to me with stories. Look, you're telling me our proposals can't be made. And you're telling me that a decree expected in the law of Social Services cannot be defined in terms proposed by us. You know why? Because of your political choice, you can't do it. Begira, zintza konpentsatzeko funtsa era, zurre uste apalean, okurrentzia bat umen da. In addition, the other day he used a rather inappropriate term, "occurrences," or I don't remember what it was like. Look, this fund was approved in this Parliament by an absolute majority. Now I'm beating you up because of the zeal of the party and the jars. Is that an occurrence? No, no, It is a political choice and you have chosen not to do what this Parliament says. You have chosen not to meet the income guarantee income and continue with that agreement Socialist Party-People's Party not to comply with the GIR Law of 2018. Mr Martínez, in that boast of measures that you have introduced, one of them is the redefinition of Lehen Aukera With regard to the assessment of the amendments made by the government parties, the other day in the budgetary debate on the partial amendments, at some point someone from the Basque Nationalist Party intervened, and look, the truth is that I was very clear that your criterion for assessing the amendments depended on whether the wind came from the south or the north, because the amendments sometimes give you exactly the same. And there you gave me the perfect example. The amendments of the People's Party, which maintain the same logic as the amendments made by the People's Party when the Budgets were agreed with you, exactly the same logic and the same path, and their representative said: "These amendments are not amendments to improve the quality of employment neither for social policies nor for social inclusion. They are amendments with names and surnames, and not for society as a whole." This is the rigour of the Basque Nationalist Party, because these amendments, which are exactly the same as those of 2017, various variations, have the same direction. You said that you were fundamental to the country's future, fundamental to the north of the country and that you always came to respond to the well-being of the country. You, with the People's Party and the Socialist Party, have all your life been adopting amendments that served the petanque club, the choir of the people in charge and to make roundabouts in the villages where they ruled. That is the rigour of the Nationalist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u22	Yes, thank you. The reality is becoming more complex and if we simplify political discourse a lot, what we are going to do is create a gap in which it is then impossible to intervene and make effective public policies. And that is why I have valued so much, from our group we have valued so much, that Elkarrekin We can become part of the great country agreements, because, among other things, they take him away from the simplification of speeches and come to the reality of the country. It's an important step. Mr. Damborenea, you follow the loins of the horse of the Apocalypse. You say there's a lot of entity, subent, chiringuito... Finally, in its amendments "I'm talking about memory," they're talking about suppressing HAZI Fundazioa and I don't think any more. You cut a quarter of the public budget to EITB and, beyond that, you don't delete any "chiringuito" you call. Therefore, you should exercise a little more conscientiously every time you work on the amendments. He says that, in the end, we are no longer the first, that in 40 years we have lost positions. Listen, if anyone advances us, welcome, no envy if any autonomy of the State advances us. But, so soon, today, in almost all indicators we tend to be, if not the first, among the first. And in any case, a reflection – I will launch it very gently – on its model of society, which invests and passes everything through the center of the state: they will have problems with that radial state structure that only bets on the center. We have a great shield that is the Economic Concert, but to all those who don't have it, watch out for those bets and create winning horses in the state. You are talking about the RGI, and here too I am going to reflect on Mrs Pinedo. RGI is a subjective right, approved by law in this Parliament. And the fact that more or less money is spent each year is indicative that there are fewer people who need the rent, not a bigger or smaller bet. What is done is to modify the amount per collector. And next year it will rise by 4 % and, yes, I have said it before, it has thrown it in my face. Honek azpimarratu Egyptian guk daukagun bestu bat. Apustu beat diru gehiago jartzea ez from the ideal gure in kontra joatea, from the apustuak indartzea. On the subject of the trienniums, what you say, Mr Damborenea, leads to error, because what is being done here is that there is discrimination between career and public officials. What is going to be done next year is that this discrimination ends and is therefore a positive thing. And as for the educational model, the educational model that the Government supports is the one that the parents choose, in which, at present, half of the children actually go to the concerted one and half to the public. But the obligations of one and the other are not mimetically equal, and it is therefore logical that funding is not mimeticly equal between the two. This year, its funding has been updated by 2.5% through the act of urgent budgetary measures and we will continue to update it in successive years. And I correct you, as you have corrected me on the issue of public personnel, I correct you: the surplus in the last three years has been 1.5 billion euros and it has been due to financial regularization, which was something extraordinary that was given in 2017. As for EH Bildu, I am funny I couldn't be, among other things, because I have a flu that the first thing I'm going to do is get into bed. Look, don't get epic with memories of compañeros who are gone and so on. I think he's been a little out of place. I, when I talk to EH Bildu, I talk to EH Bildu, and the greater representation in this collective, have parties that have historically been in Basque politics, in addition to Eusko Alkartasuna, Sortu or the classical abertzale left. The speech is the same, have Leire Pinedo or Mr. Casanova as your interlocutor. Well, I want to end with a wish. Lehendakariak bidali digun zoriontze-postarekin: "Elkargunea zabaltzeko bidea, erespectu-begirunea da". Let's broaden the meeting points from respect. Gaur ariketa hori egin dugu, aurrekontu hauek onetsiz eta esperantza honekin denoui Gabon zoriontsuak opa dizkizuet. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u23	Now that the discussion's over, we'll go to the vote. The first vote will be the subsidies reserved by the Basque Popular Groups. We're going to build three blocks here. In each block there is a group of amendments, co-ordinates know what they are. So we vote for the block. First block. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 54; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u24	So they didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the second block. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 54; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u25	So the corrections on the second block are not accepted. We'll vote for the third block next. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the contrary, 65; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u26	So the corrections on the third block are rejected. Then we'll vote for EH Collectations reserved for the distributions. We'll vote here in two blocks, too. First block. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 18; the contrary, 45; the abstaining, the 11th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u27	So it didn't take the first block. We vote for the second block. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 20; contraries, 45; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u28	So the second block isn't even accepted. After that, we vote on the sump of expenses, and the appendages, which are included in the discussion of the committee. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 36; the contrary, 29; the Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u29	So they're accepted. We vote for the articles and regulations of the law. We'll vote here in three blocks, too. First block. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the contrary, 65; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u30	So it didn't take the first block. Next, we vote for the second block. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 54; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u31	So he didn't accept the second block. And we'll vote for the third block next. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 54; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u32	So he didn't take the third block. We vote for the EH Collectations of the Law, and corrections made by the testimonies. Here, we vote for all of them in one block. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 20; contraries, 45; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u33	So they didn't accept Collect reserved team corrections in EH. We will vote together with the articles of judgment and the title of law. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 36; the contrary, 29; the Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-27.u34	So the reading articles and the title of the law are accepted. And it's simply approved that the law approved by the General Prev. 20th of the Basque Autonomy in Er member is accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. And good new years for all of us. It was twelve o'clock in the morning and thirty-two.
