ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the second point will be discussed in the eighth place, and the eighth in the second. First point in theme list: The question is, the government of David Laga Lagága, Ugarttsky, members of the U.S.A. P.P.S.A.S.A.P.S.A.A.A.P.A.A.A.A.P.A.'s Reorganisation of the Public Service. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u1	Good morning. Good morning to all of you, Mrs. Security Chief. The data I'm going to mention immediately is given by the management of the emergency management of your department, and the report of the past year will appear. 121 SOS-Dei answered the phone last year with 832, that is, 2,250 calls each day, from the ARA to 14% of the Gipuza, 32% and 54 percent Bizkai. From these appeals, several cases of emergency had to be carefully guarded and managed, in particular 2200,000, that is to say, 600 days. Even if they're users of number 112, these numbers always attract attention to citizens. In this sense, it is to be imagined that a service which daily receives several calls every day, and manages so many emergencies, must necessarily be a good organization. What we know is that after 2012 the department manages this service from its residence in the Churdine, all the emergency calls are received in one place. Even if it had been formed of land before, it is now united. For this purpose the technical infrastructure is organized in a single home and people who care to receive those phone calls are all working at the center of the Churdinaga. Now, your department, ma'am, has taken another step at the Emergency Management Service. Indeed, Madam Counsellor, for months now we have begun to hear that the Department of Security intended to reorganize the Emergency and Meteorological Management Support Service, known as SADAE. As a support and incident management service, as a result of the emergency calls received in 112, there seems to be some logic to the proposal. However, one thing is to answer phone calls from a single service located and organized at a headquarters, such as that at the disposal of the Department of Security in Txurdinaga, and another thing very different the on-site attention I understand that SADAE is an important service for this localized and urgent emergency care, whatever its character, whether it is police, traffic, health, fire-extinguishing or any kind of emergency. That is why we are asking you today why you have decided to unify this service in Txurdinaga, to what extent this decision responds. In short, what is the effective contribution of the reorganization of the SADAE service to improving the quality of emergency care in Euskadi? Before you go, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u2	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. The first thing I want to point out is that the team of ertzainas in charge of the Emergency Management Support Service is already operating, is already working at the coordination centre in Txurdinaga, a headquarters that, as you indicated, Mr Latxaga, since 2012, precisely centralizes the telephone service in 112, a telephone we call when we have an emergency. But it also houses other services of the Directorate of Emergencies, such as the service of the technical personnel of intervention, and also services of the Directorate of Traffic, such as the attention to 011, that is, the telephone of information of the traffic in Euskadi. Hence this reorganization of the SDAE service is in harmony with the nature of the Churdina coordinate center, duty, and purpose. This reorganization enables emergencies to improve the resources and procedures of the Pre-do service, to strengthen and win efficiency. SADAE includes staff who ensure the proper functioning of coordination procedures in emergency care. It is, therefore, the essential link at the moment immediately after a call is received in 112 to attend to an emergency. It is therefore an essential service for an adequate assessment of the emergency, an analysis of the information received, and it is also essential for effective coordination and for the proper mobilization of the services needed in each of the situations, which emphasizes that the operational management of the emergency, that is, that the 112 services, SADAE and also the technical intervention services share the same space, share synergies, work together at the coordination centre in Txurdinaga. Because in this way, the third level of attention, the one offered in situ Therefore, the reorganization of this SADAE service, the Emergency Management Support Service, has been carried out in terms of efficiency, efficiency, improvement of coordination procedures and also of emergency response capacity or serious incidents. To guarantee and strengthen your service, that's the objective of SDAE's reorganization. Emergency Service Pre-service, 112 SOS-Dei, is a well-advised service from the community over the Reunion, as appears in the inquests made by the perception of security. The reorganization of the SADAE is a step to face this way: a well-kept and well-kept service, an emergency service, still more to guarantee and strengthen, three65 days and 24 hours a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u4	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask, the members of the legislatures of the Maddalen Irina Irina, the President of the Union, concerning the romances which we have as a people." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. After the election, Mr. Erkoa said we must have a different attitude this week. It was a message sent to the occasion. And I ask what will be the position of this government when this government says that its attitude will be imperfect and extensive, and therefore what will have its influence on this people. I don't know if the results you made in the Eucot Party by elections have made fun of the spokesman and the government a little bit confectioning. I doubt it. But if we see the map of the Spanish State in general, it is a map which is extremely homogeneous in general, and which contains two distinct islands; One in Catalonia and one in Basque People. In this map there are three different areas, three distinct realities. And I'd say that people here have asked more extras and more extras to guarantee social rights because they know they have to guarantee that. I'd like to know if RedMork accepts that reality, and won't accept that reality which will change his attitude until now, or prefers to change it, and that the colors of the Basque Country are subject to this Spanish map. When you say "Other Character," we think that other people should ask for this attitude and not the Basque Country Bilri because the issue of this people is in Madrid, the Democratic Anomalia is in Madrid. I said it a month ago, and some of them laughed at me, but... "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I'd say he's still there. And don't get confused as a political opponent. The problem is with Madrid, they don't have it with Euskal Herria Bildu. We have it with Madrid, even with its own partner in government, right now, with the Socialist Party, which has not complied, because they announced seven transfers in March, and I don't know where they are, and those announced by July, because I don't know where they are going to be. I'm afraid they love us and have us paralyzed. And I'll tell you, the Basque Country is going to be a very clever gathering. for the rights of this people, as well as those which society decides, as well as the agreements which are founded on a share in a popular project. Yes, of course. Are you ready to move forward? We are. And that's the question because we're worried because we see it because we're in a paralisis-fease. Because it is clear that the PNV is doing very well in its electoral strategy. But it is a strategy, from my point of view, worrying for this country. It is fishing in the votes, in the cauldrons of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, basically "Yes, Mr. Egibar," that's how the Basque Nationalist Party's bench is getting fat, basically, well... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u6	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u7	Anyway... Let's have a drink from the gauza ona. They're doing great. But I believe, in any case, Mr Urkullu and the PNV, that a unionist project is incompatible with a country project. And I say I agree, yes, but on the basis of a country-key project. They have the hand of Euskal Herria Bildu stretched out to reach agreements in the budgets, to talk about demography, to talk about quality employment, industrial development, energy transition. They have the hand of Euskal Herria Bildu stretched out to push forward the articulated text of the new status, which, as you and I know, is quite paralyzed. We think we need to get this country out of the stand-by policy. That's why I'm asking if, with the results map in hand, they're going to try to blur the color seen in Euskal Herria or we're going to try to move forward as a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u9	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chiefs of departments, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs. Irryrez, "in your opinion, can we answer the romances of the people with the instruments we have at this moment? "I don't know. That is the question, which at the eighth point has been sent to a second point. "But I will answer you, and I will answer all that you have said at first. Let me tell you, however, that our people have four preponderant challenges, and others, on account of reality, upon the reality which you have mentioned: challenge demographic and young, innovation, education and internationalization. If we've had tools to give proper answers, in a great measure thanks to the state of Autonomy, and, of course, the more tools we get, the answers will be better. But I think it's more important than that to share these challenges and to realize that these are true popular challenges. This means that we must all unite our labours and contributions to overcome these challenges. So, as our goal is the President, I speak in the name of the whole Eukong, and not in the name of one party is to unite organizations and society and to strengthen the community. If we do that, the tools we have will be enough, and I'm sure we'll get more tools too. It's possible to answer the hinges of our people and we're answering them. It is indispensable that the indications which the community of eumancipateizes are found in several ways; in this people we provide public policies, we provide social services of quality, we assist economy growth, and help to promote new employments. It's only four decades since this town didn't have a tool. Now we have a lot of tools and a chance to get more. Do you know what government is? To use the tools we've managed to get a target properly. That's how we run it. And that's what we're doing. The important thing, Mrs Iriarte, is that with the tools we have, with the Statute of Autonomy and the recognized self-government, which you have rejected for more than three decades, there have been and still are many people working hard and getting this country out of the way. Working in institutions, in companies and in society. The country results are positive. Having aspirations, Mrs. Iriarte, is legitimate "I have them too," but those aspirations cannot hide the responsibility to respond realistically to the day-to-day commitments – the realism you mentioned – that build society and nation. And that is the requirement of citizenship, and that is our task. A double task: activate the tools we have and try to achieve new tools. You can keep looking at the toolbox or you can start using those tools. Here are positions of 11 April, also signed by you with the group Euzko Abertzaleak, regarding compliance with the Statute of Autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Hamaika second... President, 32 seconds. You? He doesn't have to answer. Yeah. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u11	Yeah, I'll take the chance. We've shown our chance in the past decades. We're moving forward and we're moving on. Do we think it's enough? Not really. We know we have problems and weaknesses, but we know challenges, and we will continue to attempt fresh answers. We'll go on working with both hands: With one, we use our tools, and with the other we get the new tools we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, Lander Martín with Hiro with the parliamentary members of the Podemos team to the president, to fill up the legislation program engaged by the Eucommenk." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u13	Good morning. Mr. President, at the beginning of the legislation, your government introduced a bill of law, bound to advance these laws, or to transfer them to the legislature. How can this government perform the first commitment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u15	Chief of Parliament. Thank you, Mr Martínnez, for giving us the chance. How are we gonna do this? Like so far. I'd like to go into the government and work with the crews and share them and send legal or legal bills to the parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u17	Thank you for explaining it, Mr. President, but I think that's not enough. It is true that there are twelve laws at the present day, seen by your own government, which ought to be in Parliament, in tramation, and those which are not. Twelve laws necessary to the future of this people, and fundamental laws to our society. When are climate change laws going to take place? For when is sustainable mobility? If you say that you do believe that climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing the world – as you have said more than once – you will have to demonstrate this by setting this law as a priority. Lehendakari, of these laws will depend, to a large extent, on Euskadi's productive model in the coming decades, and on territorial articulation. Laws that must open an urgent debate. That their delay only supposes that Euskadi is missing the train of opportunity, for example, of adaptation to climate change. If we continue to review the government program, by now the three laws of the Department of Employment and Social Policy should already be in Parliament, and there are neither the Lanbide regulatory law, nor the RGI law, nor the law on the protection of children and adolescents. We are talking about three fundamental areas of our welfare and social protection system. It is these laws that have to prepare the system to protect and give security to people when they come wrong. But it gives us the impression that the government has no intention of opening these debates in Parliament. And besides, there is another last law, which deserves pain to be placed here on the table, which is a great delay: a law to kill with violence against women. It's a big delay. Rates its own testing Priorties, we believe, are marked out with the stock of government, Mr. Urkullu, and not only with institutions of speech. And what the work of the Government demonstrates is that climate and not our protection system, nor even the machita of violence, are they not a priori for you. They have been complaining for five months that the opposition does not support their initiatives, and the only law that the government has brought in 2019, that of budgetary accompaniment, came forward with the abstention of Elkarrekin Podemos. The balance sheet of its legislative activity in 2019 is zero. His government should have brought seven laws in 2018 and five in the first quarter of 2019. When are they going to bring them? Are you going to bring them in or are you going to finish the legislature? I am going to be honest with you, I have no confidence that the laws that have not been brought into Parliament will be passed in this legislature, and I regret the consequences this will have for our economy, for women's rights and for social protection. So, I ask you to at least do your job, to start negotiating seriously and with the aim of reaching agreements in open laws. At least let it be negotiated seriously, lehendakari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, he'll be fulfilling the commitments you've made to the Basque Games. To do this, as has been said, we shall work in the Administration, and do and do, as we have said before, keep our relations with our own sectors, and we will give the people a chance to participate in what concerns them. 'Esunjok promised to send 28 billyties into this parliament.' So far we've sent 17 projects, 17, and they're evacuating another ten. We'll send the 28th, don't hesitate. The legislative programme of the Basque Government envisages sending 28 bills to this House. To date we have sent 17 projects, and 10 more are in the process; we will send the 28 committed, Mr Martínez. We're fulfilling our commitment. We have submitted 17 bills –12 as bills and 5 as proposals for legislation of the two parties supporting the Government, a format agreed upon in the circumstances of the drafts. Of these 17 referred, Mr Martínez, Parliament has passed seven laws; the rest are in the process here in Parliament. The Government is working on 10 pre-draft laws: climate change; worship centres; subsidy regime; amendment of the Equality Act, including the eradication of violence against women; sustainable mobility; comprehensive documentary management; youth; administrative bodies and scales; conservation of natural heritage; and environmental administration. In all cases we have the opinion of the sectors concerned and, in some cases, they have asked us, as you well know, as your parliamentary group well knows, they have asked us for time to make their contributions. We accept it because its participation is fundamental. Finally, work on six other pre-projects has begun: rural development; Basque employment system; child and adolescent care and protection; savings banks and bank foundations; sport; and education. I will also say that, with regard to the draft law on contributions, for example, work will be resumed once the new general councils, outlaws and municipalities have been formed, as well as the scenarios that affected deputies and municipalities, prior to the electoral process, have been advising for a long time. The Government's legislative activity is on schedule, Mr Martínez. The Government's commitment, I insist, is to refer the 28 bills to Parliament, but once they enter here, they are not the property of the Government, Mr Martínez. I understand and do not question that parliamentary groups require time to analyse, discuss and pass laws. The example is a bill, which has already passed the full parliamentary amendment procedure, for which four extensions of the deadline had been requested, four extensions of the deadline by the parliamentary groups. By the way, a bill from which you have decided to withdraw the partial amendments so that they would not be accepted by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. Is that your will? Bills, in any case, Mr Martínez, which have been passed after more than a year and a half of having been referred by the Governing Council to Parliament. In any case, we have an attitude – yes, we – open to dialogue, with the will of agreement, so that the projects submitted materialize in laws with the greatest possible support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Euscal Social Socialists of the United States were made to send a bill for climate change to the Environmental, Land Planet, and Housing Department." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u21	Thank you, ma'am. The Basque Socialists introduced into the governance agreement in Euskadi the commitment to the elaboration of a law against climate change because, among other things, we had clear that from our competences we had to move forward in this race in which, unfortunately, we are already late. However, in these two years we had not found an ally in the Government of Spain because the People's Party, unfortunately, constantly devoted itself to resorting to everything that we almost achieved from this House. Tomorrow is a year since the Socialist Government changed the agenda in this country, since that motion of censure made it possible for things to change in Spain and, within that agenda, we would give priority to wage recovery, to the shielding of public pensions, to equality between men and women and, also, to the ecological transition. We had a clear electoral victory and, after that electoral victory, we also had support in Basquedi for a government that we understand has turned to the priorities of this country, a government that deepens that social agenda and with ambition to elaborate with all the autonomous communities those laws and measures that we believe have to reverse situations that, unfortunately, we had to live in this country. Among the challenges to be faced, this socialist government has a clear, unquestionable commitment, as I said, to the ecological transition and to the agreements adopted throughout Europe and also to the autonomous communities. But last Sunday, however, new representatives have also been elected to our municipalities and to the General Councils, which are also institutions that should work with this Government to achieve these objectives. That is why it is very important that all political decisions, all the possibilities of agreement that are explored, allow consistency to be maintained with these actions. And this reflection is what we think is important at the moment, because there are those who seem to be still entangled in their issues, when the urgent task that we have in our hands all the parties – and I say all the parties – after an election in which the extraordinary plurality that we have in Euskadi has been reconfirmed, is to look for points that will allow us to reach agreements between different parties, that will promote stability, because it is from that stability that the achievement of those objectives to which I refer can come out. And today, in this House, in this full session of control, there are a number of questions relating to compliance with the legislative calendar and the government programme. Some wonder about the responsibility of the Executive in presenting its proposals, and we also wonder about the responsibility of the groups in this House to take them forward, not to dilute them in endless debates and not to let them macerate as is the case with some of them. The question that we Socialists have put to you today, Mr Arriola, is about a specific law which has had previous obstacles which have to do with external obstacles, but which now has a new opportunity, which will also require high eyes on the part of all the groups represented in this House. We know that, while some were focused on electoral campaigns, of course, this Government has not stopped working during these months and that its department has continued with its responsibility. That is why, today, I ask you, when do you plan to refer the climate change bill to this House? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u22	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, I can tell you that next Tuesday, I will inform the Governing Council of the situation with regard to the preliminary draft climate change law, which will now be subject to the process of public information and allegations and their administrative processing. As urged by this House, we are confident that all mandatory reports will be available within six months, so that their approval by the Governing Council and referral to Parliament will take place at the end of this year or early next year. It will be an important law, which will define the commitments and actions necessary to continue the fight against climate change, and to do so from an advanced, carbon-neutral economy because environmental degradation is a general problem and we must address it among all. There is plenty of time to bring this bill to fruition – and also other important current bills – if we put the general interest before the interests of the party. I agree with you, Mr Andueza, that the electoral campaigns have already ended and that we must all refocus on addressing the issues that matter to people. I will tell you that as eibarrés, Gipuzcoano and socialist Basque I am reasonably satisfied, but, apart from the particular thing, the electoral results, as you said, have once again ratified the plurality of Basque society and that agreements between different are the best way to manage that diversity and to progress, as our history teaches us. This has always been the bet of the Basque Socialists, and this bet is concrete at the present time in our predisposition to agreements for governability and stability in the institutions. We do so out of conviction, because we believe that Basque society is not going to progress by cultivating and accentuating differences, or risking unilateral adventures, but by providing shared spaces for collaboration in all the institutions of Euskadi. And in the face of the exclusionary temptations, the Basque socialists are always going to put forward the social agenda, which puts the emphasis on equal opportunities and the elimination of all the gaps that separate citizens, because in this social agenda we can all find ourselves, we can all make our contribution to making progress in overcoming inequalities and in overcoming the social gap that affects the whole of Basque citizenship. But returning to its origin, Mr Andueza, the Government will, over the next few months, fulfil its commitment to bring three bills to the House that cover the whole field of environmental protection. But our claim is not that they satisfy only the parties that we are in the Government; on the contrary, we want to open them to the contrast and contributions of the other political forces and representative entities because this is a work of all, because we believe, as I have said, that dialogue and agreement between different people are the best way to respond to the needs of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Five point in theme list: "Queer, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, made to the president about the promotion of the president's reform calendar." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u25	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. There is a certain interest in what we are talking about here today, this morning, in the conversation we have, in the expectation that the legislature we are embarking on has. And I have noted that there is a concern that is shared by all the groups, also by those who support the Government, about the fulfilment of our obligations, our commitments to Basque society, in terms of the reforms that are pending and the laws that have to be passed, because they have all talked about the same thing. And I asked you this question, so you answered the question three times for me when I go up to the rostrum, but you don't worry, I have the ability to vary. Because you came up this morning. He has replied that, of course, his assessment of the degree of compliance must not be entirely satisfactory when he has promised so many laws for the remaining period, and he has explained to us that at this time they have passed laws – either through the Government or through the formula of the proposals of law – and that seven have been adopted. And then he told us that he's going to send another 11; plus another 7 that's in his wallet, plus the contribution law... I've already lost myself. It is not true that there are 26, 16, 17, 18 laws that you intend to send, plus 10 that are here, that must be passed. Therefore, I was coming out – you will correct me – that we have approved 7 in three years, and that we have to approve 28 in one year. Well, we're not gonna get scared, we're Basques. The question is, how are we going to do it? Because you have several advantages. You are lucky to be able to choose – of course, this is good –, you can choose, and you have had that luck, but, of course, that is accompanied by the ballast, the burden of having to decide. And we have to decide, and we're not here anymore. This morning Mrs. Iriarte and EH Bildu have placed her here to step on the sovereign accelerator, and that is the condition. Otegi and EH Bildu want to present already the articulated text for the new statute and place them to you. You know that that is a condition that for a stable relationship with the People's Party is very complicated. And they're pushing him on that side; I'm pushing him on the reform side. But the question is not your ambition, if it is credible that we will be able to do all the outstanding work we have not done so far, but the question is, do you have any concrete idea of how you want to do it and what you are going to propose to us specifically? Do you have any method of dialogue or negotiation with the groups so that we can believe that we are able to do that in the remaining year?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u27	Chief of Parliament. Mr Alonso, in fact, I have reiterated at this morning's sitting, so far, that there are 28 commitments regarding the implementation of the legislative programme presented by the Government to this Parliament and that I will comply. This Government will comply with the referral of the 28 bills to Parliament. If we can add to this more legislative initiatives, already presented by the opposition already presented by the Government itself, they will add up to more than 28. But, in principle, our commitment is that of 28. To take them forward, you have said, to take them forward, the responsibility for parliamentary groups, parliamentarians, has also been maintained in previous debates, so as not to delay in time what may be debates that may even be unnecessary, because, as I have also said, there have been groups that have tabled amendments that have then decided to withdraw so that they are not taken over by the Basque Government itself. In any case, Mr Alonso, the disposition of the Governing Council is an open provision for relations with all parliamentary groups. Also with you after this year already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr. lehendakari, if you have initiative, I have initiative, because you say we're all standing here, looking at each other and measuring each other. We've had elections, there's no more elections – "or no," Rajoy would say. Do you remember?–. But if you have initiative, I have initiative, and if you want to put forward reforms, I will put the position of the People's Party openly to those reforms. And we can move forward. Let me give you an example: we have in the freezer the reform of the GIR that is being promoted by the Counsellor. We can negotiate. But I have my terms, and I want things to change. I'll negotiate that if you incorporate a social guarantee. A social guarantee is that all job seekers who receive GIR are subject to a face-to-face training programme. Look, they've forced the workers to register, all of them; the GIRs don't register. We cannot disagree with the people who are demanding employment; we have to deal with them, we have to ensure that there is a social commitment from the Government to them and from them to us. And like that there are many other ideas that can improve our social protection model or reforms in the areas that are necessary for what we share: the boost of competitiveness, innovation, the ability to sell abroad of our companies... That's improving the conditions of our workers, that's creating jobs. Let us therefore now talk about concrete things in concrete reforms. If you have initiative, I will have initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, we are aware of the difficulties and uncertainties, both internal and in the environment. In all areas and senses, and we are talking about it, in addition, without caps. However, you will not be able to deny, Mr Alonso, the willingness to dialogue and to the agreement of the Basque Government. Areas of collaboration are open. In June, we will present the budget guidelines for Budget 2020. Last year the People's Party did not want to sit down to negotiate, it did not want to sit down to negotiate, Mr Alonso. Do you think that decision has been positive for Basque society? And now, after tomorrow, a year conditioned by party issues, such as the pre-election stage, opens up – yes, I think so too – an opportunity for dialogue and agreement. I think we need to share a reflection with your party and the other two opposition parties, despite the vetoes that have been imposed on us in the past, and although some have already established a position on the Basque Nationalist Party, specifically. In any case, Mr Alonso, we are going to continue to manage the government programme, and I remind you that the agenda of agreements for growth, employment and welfare remains open on the part of the Basque Government. Human development area: social and health strategy, family and child pact, income guarantee income, wage gap strategy, investments in education... Sustainable growth area: employment and reactivation plan, support for entrepreneurs and dual training, Lanbide reform, environmental programme 2020, financing funds for businesses... I am putting these matters on the table, and their development will also depend on the willingness to move forward on an agreement in the budget guidelines. La puerta del Gobierno está abbet. So the Eusk0 gate is still open, open for interviews and the agreements. All the proposals for human development and permanent growth are laid on the table of all of you, and the rules of the budget will be on the table of all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interadectition made by the Congressman of the Presidency Committee of the Home of Pello Urizar Committee to the president of Catalan Commissioners." Urrigate Sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u33	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. On the 21st of May last week, five political prisoners in Catalan had been imprisoned by catacombs, and had received their deputies and senators, after choosing in the general elections of April 28th. Democracy seemed to work, because they maintained all their rights: they were allowed to present themselves to the elections, and they were chosen by society as their representatives. But this specism of democracy lasted less than 24 hours: the next day they were all once more seated in the chair of the defendants, and had been suspended within a few days, although there is not yet a fixed verdict. I was supposed to be a witness to Spejism because last week I went to the Supreme Court to show evidence of protection for Catalan politicians who are prosecuted. And I believe, unfortunately, that I did not take any surprise at what happened to me; and I believe that no one here has taken a good deal of surprise because we know the law better than well, or the ability of Spanish powers to fulfil it. However, I must say that I went out of it in the fear of seeing a dark future more obscure than perhaps I had expected, because I saw that the democracy was seeking to punish it in a more brutal manner than I had expected. If we appeal to the origin of the word democracy, it means the power of the people, and if we approach the context of this day, we may say that we are speaking of the determination of society. I saw that the prosecutor insisted on giving the word to society in order to prove that it was a crime, to prove again and again that the Catalan institutions were guilty of a terrible crime which could not be accepted. The fact that Catalan, the men and women of Catalonia, wanted to make their opinion a reality, is that this was a terrible crime, that the foundation of democracy was to seek to make them real. If this were little, we have all been tempted to accuse them of the most grievous accusations they had in this political trial, because they have no other name for anything else, and we have all seen that they have tried to invent the use of violence to maintain the accusation of rebellion, and that they have tried to make the trouble of two police officers into a capital crime against almost humanity. One thing must be clear: this is not a legal police process against certain persons, and not only an attack against Catalonia. This is a warning to all of our own nations that we must necessarily accept the Spanish frame imposed by a warning. We have often heard, both in this chamber and outside this Chamber, that all political projects are lawful and capable of being always conducted in a peaceful and democratic manner. But if experience in Catalonia teaches us anything, it is quite contrary, that what we were told was lying, and in a conscious way. When the President of the Barche went to present to Congress the new political state, Zapater made it clear by literally saying this frame: "Si vivimos juntos, juntos debemos decidir." To me, of course, I think it's much better for Ibaruch himself to answer: "Tenemos que poter decidir vivir juntos." La convivencia no se puede imponner." And there's the key: what sort of partnership we choose, whether voluntary or forced. 21st in Europe the answer of the century ought to be easy. 37th of the 57 States of Europe. 21. they are made up of the century, and from them after the 2490s. There is a reality which cannot be concealed, that there are many nations and nations in Europe, and that negation, which is often denied as we see it here, does not destroy this reality. The Basque Country, besides Galicia and Catalonia, Scotland, Wales, Corsica, Sardinia, Britain, Octitania, Flanders, Frisia, and many other nations are in Europe who demand their remunciation, and, as it has been before, they will succeed. In such cases also a democratic solution is given us by the example of Scotland, a clear example. In 2014, they made a referendum to distribution of the United Kingdoms, and were able to form a proceeding with perfect regularity, by the Government of the United Kingdom, and by the Government of Scotland; And though it may be wondered at in the Spanish parameters, no catastrophe or apocalypse was produced. On the contrary, there was a much more natural and democratic thing; 21st As is supposed to be the case with Europe, the Scots were able to decide, and in this case they decided to stay in the United Kingdom. I would call it "Democracy" in serious terms. We have a right to do the same in Catalonia and the Basque People, always local. if society expresses a will for it. But in the Spanish State, there is only one nation. That's how it is received in this sacrosian constitution. This holy constitution also imposes the duty of preserving it by frames and armed forces, and thus ends the choice of the execution of all political projects from democratic paths. That's where lies appear. The conviction of the septeri is founded on the threat of armed forces. And we could see that too on October 1st, 2017, how Spain divided her co-operation pills. In Catalonia they learned the theory of the Constitution, they had to learn violence. Concrete path between the United Kingdom and Scotland This, however, I said before, is not a Catalan problem. It's not a Catalan problem, it's a democracy problem. And it also belongs to the Basque People, because the want of Spanish will affects us too, because it is not confined to Catalonia. We can't take another look, Mr. President, as if he wouldn't go with us. This is our problem, too. And as long as you're the principal representative of this community, I'd like to know what you'll do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u34	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Urizar, several times on this subject, I shall confirm the position proposed. One. I have remarked that I do not agree with the judicial power of the state of Catalonia and Spain. Two. I have maintained that the provisional imprisonment of Catalan to politics and the penal types established to them are enormous. Three. I have insisted that the affairs of the state and the direction which it has taken in Catalonia must be differently cultivated. In distense, conversation, negotiation, and agreement, we need a solution. In this context, I believe that the possession of politicians in temporary imprisonment is not helping to find an agreement in the search for conflict. On the contrary, I think that those select ones may assist the execution of their offices with propriety in opening new means of normalization. That's the starting point. But you don't really know whether to put me behind this question or whether it's an excuse to suggest an initiative in the legislature, you ask what's the purpose of the Euskák in front of this anomalia of democracy. You corrected me that question, and it sounds like you're starting to realize that I have a right hand to fix what you're saying "momalia." You know what your right hand is and what it's like to play. The proper disposition and opinion is one thing, and another is the effective power of acting. From a realistic attitude, the subject has been underlined, influenced, or expressed, as I have hitherto done, and I will continue to do so. This is not a new attitude. Since the summer of 2017, in conversation, distraction, negotiation, and arrangement, I have tried to find a solution. For since I have no power to resolve the conflict, I am in the circle of established and positive propositions. The goal has always been to solve the problem. What I intend to do. To find and help with a negotiated solution to the situation. I shall continue with confidence, whilst this assistance may be useful to me, and it is required of me. You asked me about my intention, and I think you're known. My goal has always been to try to influence in order to try to solve the problem, to help find and to try to facilitate a dialogued, negotiated and agreed solution to the situation. I will continue to do so with full conviction, as I have done so far, respecting two conditions. Firstly, that my participation is required, and secondly, that I maintain the discretion that the solution of this issue requires. On the ground, I will continue to defend the theses that I have raised so far. The starting point is that the conflict must be moved from a confrontational framework to a new one of political and institutional dialogue. On this road, Mr. Urizar, I proposed to promote a political institutional process in Spain, Catalonia, and the aim of the majority of the Basque societies to combine democraticly. Politics, interviews, and no agreement has led the state of Catalonia to the present point. I think it must be avoided that any social or political rupture should be internal or internal, or that it may be between deserts and institutions. I mean: we must give priority to treaties. This is a fundamental principle of political responsibility: A traumatic stage of victors and defeated will not solve the problem, and only increase the abyss. I believe that governments and politicians ought to be part of the solution, not of the problems. We are faced with an anomaly – between quotes – because people who have been able to run for election normally, once elected, and maintaining the same status as when they were, can now not exercise their representation. We have a history of democratic anomaly in the parliamentary order, Mr Urizar, and you know them well. I remind you of the Atutxa case, Knörr, Bilbao I remind you of the position of the Catalan Parliament itself, which has maintained its activity with normality, despite the suspension of the people mentioned, of the people elected. I remind you of the position of your own party in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate in the face of the democratic anomaly that has occurred with the Bureau's decision regarding the people elected and now suspended. I would remind you that in the face of this same situation you will find yourselves in the European Parliament, and your political group will normally continue to represent you, despite the foreseeable democratic anomaly in this case as well. I remind you of all this because you should be demanding, okay, but starting with yourself. For my part, I shall continue in favour of an expedient by conversation and compact, in the crisis over Catalonia, and in the model of the country of Spain. This, after all, is the substance of this question: both parties ought to do the same for the solution; the treaties bind and draw up their attitudes; the matureness is required to yield, and the elasticity is necessary for the consent. In Spain, a new government has to be completed and a new stage begins. That could also open a choice. I think it's necessary to adopt the Spanish State and accept its pliant reality. When the independence of the State of Spain is redistributed, it is essential to have a built and compacted view. That's what, in my humble opinion, I have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u37	I was worried for a moment, because I thought you questioned the democratic anomaly. Then, no, I noticed that... No, I thought, I said, you threw it like a question and I wrote: "Not a democratic anomaly? "I don't know. I've seen that it is, and you've given other examples. No doubt we don't plan that we have to lock ourselves up or go into a paradise; I think it will be our turn to act in different quarters. But when we speak in different quarters, and have the power of producing it, I think one thing has escaped from what I said: That this isn't a Catalan problem. This is a question of democracy, and it is also our problem. So there's not so much of the middle-class work that we think there's no middle-class work here if I ask you to, because I know you have no jurisdiction to shake hands there. But as it is a question of eupscal, we must mark a position in which to face the question of euscal too, and no doubt this position must be clearly expressed in Spanish, in this case, to the President of the Social Party, who is of the Social Party. What we have to say is that the Catalan affair isn't a catana, it's not the problem of these people, but that Spain has a problem. And it is that the nation does not admit them, and so far as it does not admit the nations, it is also a question of the Basque People. So, yes, I think it's your turn to have a more active role. Of course, the social rupture must be avoided, that the scene of the victors and defeated is bad, but I have already told you, President, we have a clean choice, and that we must decide whether we want to live a voluntary or a burdened life. And 40 years ago, when the sound of the sabres were still behind, the majority of this people went for a frame, but it's true that we all knew that it was occupancy, because I didn't vote because I hadn't an age to have it; some because I had no idea that there was another alternative, and that the alternative was an alternative, and that the alternative was an armed force. And now, in a more secret way, but armed forces are also present. but the will to consent cannot be, well, in a way, if he has the same vettax, because the refusal will always be on his side. We've got it all figured out, Mr President. Our choice is a choice for voluntary life, as well as a single choice. And I think that you do the same choice, and that's the basis for the new status we've adopted in this Chamber. And if it is voluntary, it must be a relation of the like, because it is thus placed in the same principles. We choose the way we agree with this new state, because we open the door of a concerted road. But, as I said just now, we must ask for the will to agree that which must be present in this case in the Spanish Government. It is not acceptable to fill the mouth of democracy, but to have an armed force for the support of their fellow-citizens. It's not acceptable, and at least we don't accept it that way. Our cooperation, our help, and our support will follow the road we started. From a state of dependence, because we are now in a state of dependence, to pass into a state of equality. We have an opportunity of creating a new frame of the following decades, of creating a frame that may be illusion and will be, in our hand, and of putting into our hands the tools which we now have of halbia, of use to us, not as much as they are needed, since it will deliver all the tools into our hands, to build a just and more advanced society which is now ours. It's worth it, president, and we'll do it. You coming?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u38	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, I have mentioned it before, on April 11, so that two months have been agreed on in the following parliamentary law: "The law of Europe indicates that a new organization is indispensable to the state in order to maintain mutual sincere culture and mutual loyalty, which will not allow the law and the agreement obtained, and consequently will prevent it from making a political use of these observances. This new arrangement must be founded on differences and agreement, and must receive its proper security, or the system. Besides, as in other countries of Europe, it may be allowed to exercise the right of deciding the people." They sign Euneraries and EH Collectors, and others also protect him. You coming? Look, Mr. Urizar, I said that in Spain a new stage begins. It's a good thing you've told me I'm not entitled to Catalonia. You have mentioned Europe in Europe, and Europe is mentioned in this resolution. I support the unity which constitutes Europe, and which admits of culture, a more democratic Europe, which will govern with a multitude of degrees. A Europe which will tend to separate the rights and the independence of Europe, has been a political project in which the union of Europe has been formed, in the course of a separate project, to build a belief in nations and nations. It is necessary that political and decidedism should be shared with the nations and nations which form the multiplicity of Europe. And why do I bring it to Europe? Because you mentioned it, and where I place it to explain the solution. The European Union ought to facilitate the discovery of the problem by conversation, and I have proposed to examine a direct explanation of the light in this way myself. We are not merely in the presence of a question between Catalonia and the Spanish State, Mr. Urizar. What we have on the table immediately affects the health of Europe's project. You know, Mr Urizar, my institutional action within the framework of my competences and in relation to the conflict between Catalonia and the State. The question is, what do we each do? What do we all do beyond what we have approved in this House? What else can we do if they have not done their own Catalan representatives in Catalonia itself or in the Spanish State itself? I have set out my political positions and reminded him of the proposals I stand for in order to seek dialogue and agreed solutions, both for the Catalan question and for the territorial problem of the State. I have also explained to you the desirability of analysing the proposal for a directive on clarity in Europe. Yesterday, and you mentioned Scotland, the Scottish prime minister presented a referendum law, without date and without question, and will proceed to refer it to the British Parliament for approval. That is: a pact, because it does not have rights, Mr Urizar, it does not have rights, Mr Urizar. Does all this I say to you seem insufficient? I wonder and I wonder what would be enough. I look, for example, at the attitude of their parliamentarians in Congress and in the Senate, and I see nothing exceptional they have done. They have complied with the Constitution, the Constitution, to gain access to their posts as senators and deputies, and have continued in their posts after knowing the suspension of Catalan posts in prison. I do not criticise you for this, Mr Urizar, on the contrary, I am glad that you continue to serve as Members and Senators of EH Bildu because I believe you will be more useful in exercising your functions than in abandoning them. And this same criterion applies here, Mr Urizar. For our part, we will concentrate on making the Basque way work, with realism, without fantasies or false expectations. We have a model, a model based on dialogue, negotiation and agreement, based on the defence of bilaterality, which you now assume as your own. It is a model not free of difficulties or obstacles. The Basque way will need perseverance, but our goal is to show that there is another way to address and channel conflicts and political divisions. This will also be a contribution based on our commitment to Basque society and its priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the lawmate of Podemos to the president, about the risk of denominating Siemens Games." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, all members of the legislature, good morning. Mr Lehendakari, two years ago the Siemens multinational company absorbed Gamesa, and on that occasion, two years ago, Councilwoman Tapia said that there was no doubt whatsoever about Siemens Gamesa's commitment to Euskadi. Last year, you met with Siemens CEO Joe Kaeser, and the CEO signed a partnership agreement with Markus Tacke, Siemens Gamesa CEO, to root the company in the country. The roots and commitment were no longer so clear. Just a month ago, Mr. Joe Kaeser, with whom you met, announced that he's taking out for sale at Gamesa, Siemens Gamesa, he's taking out for sale the entire Siemens energy division, he's taking it out on the market in September 2020, and that Siemens' participation is also going to stay below 50% of that company. Do you still think that the deep-rooted Siemens Gamesa in Euskadi is insured?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u42	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In reply, Mrs. Tapia is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, all good days. Mr. Becerra, often when we talk about the enpresian romance, we only consider where the capital is from. And if that's the case, we'd have to see that foreign capitals come to make a few purchases in the Euska, but the Basque companies go out shopping too. And this is, in itself, neither good nor bad, but how business is managed, and how so many things are considered. So when we talk about shooting, we must not only consider where capital is from, where social residence is, but much more important what production it will be, if they continue to investigate, what position it will be for workers, in that country where there will really be growth... Those are really important romances. Eta zentzu horretan, aipatzen dugunean errorketa, éta zuk zeuk esaten duzu, horri garrantzia ematen diogunean, ez Bakarrik kapitala nongoa den, sinatu genuen akordio bat, egia da, Siemens Gamesarekin. Zertarako? Not because we doubted what his commitment was, but because he continued in all those actions he was talking about. In other words, to continue to promote R & D, in its supplier traction capacity, in its ability to act in terms of improving the management of all those suppliers... And that's what we're doing in a satisfactory way. And we meet permanently with Siemens Gamesa, both from the government's point of view and with the suppliers represented by the cluster. Therefore, if we stick to the literality of the question, in addition to having to talk about the root, we have to talk about what that root and those conditions entail. And for this the government has different instruments, different ways of acting, in terms of generation and consolidation of the development of a local company, but, above all, taking care of those global companies that have come to be located in Euskadi. Specifically, in the case you were commenting on, we know what is happening in Siemens Gamesa, we know directly, through conversations held with your top leaders, and also by writings sent literally by Siemens Gamesa and Siemens AG as to how they act. And it must be remembered that Siemens Gamesa is already a listed company, so it is not doing anything new, but it will unite all its capabilities. And I remind you that it is not only Siemens Gamesa with its plant in Zamudio and its plant in Asteasu, but also in that new company there will be other plants that are of relevance, which is a company located, in terms of generation, in Zumaia, with its R & D unit in Miñano. Therefore, all this is going to be associated with the new company in which Siemens is not going to have the majority, but in a listed company with 20% one has very much ability to act. And I insist, it's proven, it's been passed on to us and it's written, and I trust someone who puts things in writing, their ability to continue and their commitment to this country. And I'm going to set you an example of two performances, one of which has been known in the press today, even though it was also known: Siemens has a collaboration agreement with a startup startup Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u45	Mrs. Tapia, everything that Siemens Gamesa has written to you so far from September 2020 is wet paper because it will depend on who owns it and we don't know who will own it. The same as was wet paper this collaboration agreement you signed with Siemens Gamesa. In a newspaper publication, it was said, it was written that the agreement "has the special value of wanting to put a stop to the controversy behind the board of Gamesa and the fears of its reference shareholder, Iberdrola, that the headquarters may move out of the Basque Country". Indeed, the only object of this agreement was to silence criticism and silence controversy. Moreover, this is not just an agreement that is wet paper, it is an empty agreement, it has no compromise, and I asked you in writing what specific agreements you were going to sign. I asked in particular: "What specific agreements have been drawn up or are being drawn up today?" Reply, in writing: "There is no specific agreement drawn up or under preparation". I asked: "Is there a timetable for the negotiation and signature of these specific agreements by 2020?" Answer: "There is no calendar." This is also written. There is nothing behind this partnership agreement. And on this collaboration agreement, which he was called "Memorandum of Understanding," the Germans should not have understood anything at all, in the light of what they have decided to do later. I have told you on some occasion – I told Mr Lehendakari a year ago – that foreign capital inflows are often not good news, because capital has no roots, only interests. And Siemens Gamesa's stock market outlet has obvious consequences, and it is that the participation of the Basque reference shareholder, Iberdrola, goes from 8% to know how much, of course never 20%. It happens because no Basque company will be able to take control of that company once it comes out on the market. And it happens because in 2016 we had a profitable, modern, sustainable and future-oriented Basque company, and in September 2020 we will have nothing. And what worries me is that in this agreement of understanding, the last paragraph stated: "None of the parties may assign or transfer the rights or obligations of this agreement, except in the event of a change of control by the sale of the securities with voting rights". My question is, did you know that this could happen when you signed this agreement a year ago now, did you know that this possibility could be given? And if not, why did this clause come into effect? We've been fooled, Mrs. Tapia and Mr. Lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u46	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u47	Mr. Becerra, the difference between you and us is that you work based on distrust trust In this memorandum of understanding there are many actions that are being carried out and that continue and are going to continue, and the commitment – I insist, it is written – of a serious company. Therefore, based on trust, we continue. And, of course, you seem to say that when someone comes to Euskadi and buys, that's bad, but when Euskadi's businesses go shopping, that must also be bad. No, it's just as good one thing as the other. Let's work for the root anyway.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Reformation, Rebeka Ubera Aranz, and EH, made for the head physician of the Medical Department, the public offer of Osaparts on the question of the judicial procedure." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u49	Good morning, everyone. Mrs Murga, you are following Mr Darpón's lead: the idea you are trying to sell and cook is that Osakidetza is not responsible, Osakidetza is the affected. Mrs. Murga, you are responsible, you are not damaged. You're not damaged, even though you tried to establish that idea through the courts. So take responsibility for you, take responsibility, start doing things and fix them, please! With lies, they try to deceive citizens to maintain a customer model based on fear, deception, blackmail, and based on fraudulent, fraudulent recruitment. You and the new director, since you have entered, have dedicated themselves to shielding the space of impunity. They have shielded the space of impunity, with three lines of work. One, appointments to persons who may be involved. To what end? To buy his silence? Two, use the recruitment policy to make it clear that the one who moves, the one who reports it pays and goes to the street, as they have been trying to do with Marta Macho and the rest of the anesthesiologists. By the way, taldeok initiatiba hartu dugunean, prentsak pressu donean – orintxe bertan de tu didate –, jada eman diote zegokion kontratzioa, interinità. Welltzat gure lanak zerbaitetarako balio of the age kontrol-plenoak era zerbaitetarako balio du. Baina guk eskatu gabe egin, egin, hartu initiatiba, konpondu, weretzuleak zaretelako. And three, with the performances performed, launching a very clear, very clear message: "You can stay calm and quiet with the modus operandi For, Mrs. Murga, you must have a strong conscience, very strong, instead of really studying the subject, when you ask the others for proofs, and put the evidence on the table to beat it. It takes little shame, Mrs. Murga, to present yourself to the courts as harmed, when you were to be the first to study the matter as necessary, take care of it, and get the foxes out of the oil-house, and take care not to take precautions again, Mrs. Murga. Do you think it's normal what you're doing? Do you think it's normal how this government and the Oss behave?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u51	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, Mrs. Ubera. As you rightly say in your question, Osakidetza has the responsibility to avoid any irregularity in all its personnel selection processes, and that responsibility has not been circumvented at any time in the process before us or at any other time. He won't even get away with it in the future. It has been explained many times in this House and today I will repeat it: in the OPE 2016-2017, for the first time, a series of new measures were established, also agreed with the trade unions. Joint courts were created; a member of the court on trade union representation participated; the first exercise was prepared by a single person, who signed a confidentiality commitment; the first exercise was corrected in an automated and anonymous manner; the scoreboard of the different exercises was modified. Osakidetza, with these and other measures, from the outset assumed responsibility and commitment for the process to be conducted with transparency and appreciation of the competence and capacity of candidates with equal opportunities. In the current situation, we understand that our willingness to be present in the open judicial process also shows this commitment and, for the same reason, I will tell you that we have resorted to this issue for the second time. Osakidetza is the first interested in reaching the end and completing this OPE with all the guarantees. That's why we want to be personified. We have collaborated with the Prosecutor's Office, with the Ararteko, and we would be able to take part in the investigation and collaborate as we have done so far. Our disposition remains the same and is maximal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u53	Don't make me laugh, Mrs. Murga. You're working with the D.A.'s office! And, of course, the question where you come from and apples I bring. You've been avoiding responsibility from the beginning, you've been eluding. He has no head and no legs to avoid leaks and irregularity in the public offer and to present himself to the courts as harmed. You've lost all belief. You've lost all belief. Are the head physician of health and Chief Director of Osaparties become the hostage charge of service? Are you hijacked? Or have you become slaves and motors of that clitular network, which has been structured for many years? What's going on here? From the very beginning you haven't taken any initiative, and you're always under compulsion and pressure by others, just like Marta Macho's contract. The policy of resistance in force is perfectly fraucular, founded on fraud. This time, see...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera, your time is up. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u55	Ubera andrea, we respect, but we do not share, the opinion of the judge of the Court of Instruction No. 2 of Vitoria-Gasteiz that Osakidetza cannot characterise itself – which is legitimate – and that is why – as I have said – this week, as the legal framework allows us, we have again appealed its decision. I remind you that Osakidetza has acted and, in our view, follows the recruitment processes for all alike, without discrimination, and I hope that we can see it in detail in this House, as you mentioned. And I also remind you that it was the Basque Health Service itself that forwarded to the Prosecutor's Office and to Ararteko both the open information files and the conclusions of the internal reports prepared and that these are precisely the reports commissioned by Professor Jiménez Asensio and the psychometric studies commissioned by the University of Oviedo, which have been based both on the opinion of Ararteko and on the text of the Prosecutor's Office. Yes, Mrs. Ubera, we're just trying to keep collaborating. We think Osamate should be present in the investigation which has begun in the courts. This would be another way of helping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpology, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemos team, made to the head of the economics and the sub-gulden department of economics, the Balsque Country Logistics strategy." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u57	Well, here again, and in this case I'm going to have to do the interpellation with another tone: Unsuspected. My purpose, in this interpelation, is to know, on the one hand, whether we have the strategy to develop logistics, to talk about it, to ask what this strategy consists, and what its principles are, and whether you have the intention of renewing this strategy. Why do I ask about the logistical strategy? For, on the one hand, logistics are more and more important in the current economy, and above all for the euska enpres, as you know; and on the other hand, it's working around the logistics, and we think, from our team, that the work must be planned and not from some one's ideas. The concern of our party is always how public money is managed, in a way that is absurd and perverse, and that's our goal on paper where oppositions are concerned. The object of this inquiry is to see how you are managing the public money that is being used to promote logistics infrastructure in our country. I looked for the Basque logistics strategy, which was presented in 2014 at the International Logistics Hall in Barcelona – presented by Mrs Oregi, who was then the adviser. It was called "Basque Country Logistics." It wasn't clear to me whether it was a strategy or a brand, or both. As a strategy, as a strategy – I asked you for the strategy – it is rare that a strategy has not been approved by the Governing Council – nor is it the first time: that of the pine trees did not pass through the Governing Council either. It's weird that we don't have that strategy on paper, that it just appears on a web. And it is even rarer that, when we have asked about the assessment of the degree of compliance with that strategy, we are told that there is no evaluation. Therefore, my first conclusion is that today we do not have a Basque logistics strategy. But then I go to the second part, I go to the part of if we have a brand, because Councilwoman Oregi, when she presented this brand – or this strategy, or both, or none of them – in the International Logistics Hall, said expressly that "the Basque Country has made a great effort to define and build infrastructure and it is time to put it in a coordinated way, accentuating its multimodal character and generating synergies between them". For this, the Basque Country Logistics brand has been created. So, I asked your department to see if it existed, well, if the brand was registered. They didn't answer. I asked them to see if they had any tools to enhance this brand as the advisor, former advisor Oregi, had said. They didn't know either. I asked them, moreover, whether there was any protocol of assignment of use of the rights of this brand, and they said no. Of course, all of that takes me a long way, and when you go online, you find that the Basque Country Logistics brand is registered by a private company. It is registered by a private company formed in March 2015, i.e. one year after the strategy was presented – or the brand or neither – and one of its partners is a property management company. But, in addition, this company registers the brand and the brand now has its headquarters in an industrial polygon of Bizkaia. Of course, we have a brand that presents the Basque Government and that, however, is private, it is private, it is in the hands of a private company that is also involved by a heritage society. Well, you tell us in the answer that there is an association, a federation, BCLM, which is Basque Country Logistics and Mobility Federation, which groups together the Euskadi Logistics Cluster, the Euskadi Mobility Cluster, the Euskadi Transitory Association and the Bilbao Port Uniport Association. This federation states in its statutes, in article 6, that it is the support body of Basque public administrations for the development of the strategy – or non-strategy – of mobility and logistics in the Basque Country. That is, we have a strategy that does not exist, a brand that is in private hands and a private federation of private companies that in their constitution say they are here to develop the logistics policy of the Basque Government. As you will understand, right now I have to change my temper and go back to my previous mistrust, back to my previous mistrust. Because, of course, I can't blame you for what happened in the previous legislature, but you have a Deputy Transportation Advisor who was there, who was the man who, as the film said, "the man who was there." And this man does know what this is about. I imagine you've told him how this is going. But I want to tell you that when you use public money, you have to know where you get in, how you get in, what you get in and with whom you get in, and, above all, when you spend public money on infrastructure, above all you have to know what the priorities are, what the objectives are, if there is a strategy... It is necessary to assess whether there are needs and what the effectiveness of investments will be. And of course, I find myself in the government program, of this nationalist and socialist government, in commitment 37, Euskadi logistics node, initiative two is entitled, literally: "Import the model of public-private collaboration 'Basque Country Logistics', for the development of new logistic and intermodal platforms: Jundiz-Foronda, Lezo and Arasur". That is, it is clear what the Government is going to do. What the Government is going to do is through public-private collaboration, which is beginning to make it clear what it is like. – that money is put by the government and the ownership of everything else is by private companies – we are going to build three intermodal platforms. And then what concerns us is, if they are to be built, whether or not we need them and to what extent we need them and to what extent we need them. The working group that will boost these logistics platforms is exclusively public money: Basque Government, Eusko Trenbide Sarea, Euskotren, the Ministry of Development and Adif. And then I ask you, by finishing my speech, I ask you, I advance to tell you, do we have strategy or do we not have strategy? If we have it, where is it and what is it? If we don't have it, what if we're gonna update it to have a strategy? Are we going to get the Basque Country Logistics brand back or are we going to keep leaving the private company? And, are we going to develop logistics platforms without tone or are they or are we going to evaluate, first, what is the current and future situation regarding logistics needs, then dimensioning the Basque logistics infrastructure and not squandering money in empty concrete? Those are my questions, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u58	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Becerra, as you said, Basque Country Logistics was presented in 2014 and as a starting point it admitted or presented three fundamental elements of the Basque Government's action. Firstly, to promote mixed transport, and we have been particularly insistent on promoting rail transport, rail freight transport. Secondly, he was talking about promoting the competitiveness of our infrastructure. And thirdly, the intermodality between the different modes of transport. But in addition, all these basic principles, what we have done throughout this legislature, from the beginning, has been to transmit them or transfer them to concrete plans and, in this case, it has been the Sustainable Transport Master Plan until 2030, where we have incorporated all these actions. Basque Country Logistics itself does not define objectives or actions; for this purpose, they have been transferred to this Sustainable Transport Master Plan, where not only logistics is present, but also people's mobility is present. In this plan, you will recall that six crucial elements have been established, six areas to work on. On the one hand, there is the promotion of sustainable, intelligent and responsible economic development; on the other hand, the promotion of universal accessibility; on the other hand, the promotion of this new balance between modes of transport – already included in the Basque Country Logistics principles –; the promotion of Euskadi's strategic position in Europe; and the promotion of efficient and responsible use of transport, developing the integrated public transport system. In addition, in order to achieve all these objectives, a series of concrete actions have been established in which I will stop. Firstly, when we want to define and establish that Euskadi is a key place, that it establishes a strategic position throughout the Atlantic axis, of course we have elements to improve, and among them we are working, as you also know, for the development and definitive implementation of what is going to be the Basque Y Secondly, we have made a clear bet on rail as a mode of transport, so that the weight of goods, at the moment, in road transport is really relevant, and much more important than in Europe (75 % compared to 54 % in Europe), and we want to move towards those modes of rail transport and, of course, also maritime transport. We have promoted the southern railway variant, improving rail connections so that precisely this modal exchange can take place and goods can be transferred from the road to the railway. The deadlines have traditionally been long, but at the moment the information study is on public display so that the relevant contributions can be made. We have implemented and promoted the Arasur logistics platform. At this time, between the Foral Diputación de Álava, the Port of Bilbao and the Basque Government itself, we are setting up a railway parking lot, with a value of 15 million euros of cost, so that there is also that modal exchange of goods by road towards the railway and can be transferred to the port of Bilbao, for a correct use of that port. It is also currently building a very important photovoltaic project, the most important in Euskadi, with 24 megawatts of energy. Different companies have established their logistics platforms there, their logistics elements, can be Bridgestone, can be Aernnova, Gestamp has also set up a plant on that Arasur platform... 90% of the logistics ships have already been occupied – after a very important stop that has existed since its start-up – and we still have 115,000 square meters to be used and developed according, I insist, with that railway platform and, in addition, the Port of Bilbao. The railway highway between Jundiz and Lille has been promoted so that, in addition to being an important element in passenger transport, the Basque Y Not only the infrastructure, but Euskotren, together with the company CAF, have also presented themselves as operators of that railway infrastructure. We are therefore taking steps to put in place the infrastructure and also operate it. Moreover, the multimodal platforms of Jundiz and Lezo already have the updated protocols of action and we will continue to implement them throughout this legislature. We have incorporated digitisation elements that will be relevant in what will be the transport and mobility of the future, both in people – who may be more advanced – and in goods, not only in railway mode, but also in port mode. And from there, we should point out that, for example, the Port of Bilbao is going to be one of the places where the digitization of different projects is going to be assumed and that it is going to be a relevant node in all what are the ports of the state in terms of digitization and implementation of new actions. And, as you said, from the companies that we really believe in, and from that public-private collaboration that we trust and, of course, have established the success of this country for many years, from Basque Country Logistics Mobility, from that cluster that joins many different actors, we will continue to work to make this whole strategy a reality. Therefore, the management of shipments, route optimization, product geolocation or any traceability of goods are a reality sooner than later. These are elements on which we are already working and, in addition, where the transport sector is heavily involved in reducing CO emissions. 2 –not only in the transport of goods, but also in the transport of passengers. And therefore, in addition to that Sustainable Mobility Master Plan, we have approved the Energy Sustainability Act and the Integral Electric Mobility Plan, that the maritime transport through liquefied gas we have also put in place in the port of Bilbao, that we work for the electrification of the transport, that we have new points of recharge with the company Ibil or that we have implemented that renewed plan for modification and improvement of the entire fleet of vehicles of this country. In short, we have expanded what were the objectives of Basque Country Logistics and, according to the Sustainable Transport Master Plan, what we have gone through is to talk more about Basque mobility. This concept encompasses many aspects that are contained in the plan and that we are developing through different strategies. And, of course, I would like to point out that they are not occurrences, that they are planning and that they are, of course, transparent and well implemented resources to carry out all that strategy that we were talking about. I have commented on some of the most relevant actions, in which we will continue to delve into the hands of that cluster, of that federation that has been formed and that has already presented in September 2018 its strategic plan, and that it is born from the impulse of the Basque Administration, by the impulse of the Basque Government, bringing together the interests in mobility of people and goods, trying to give modernity to our sector and trying that, by combining efforts, we can go further. That is the way to act and, of course, the Government will apply the public resources necessary to develop infrastructure. We believe that this is our way of working: railway and logistical infrastructure must be designed and developed by the Basque Government, together with the Government of the State in its case, but of course the use of these resources, efficient use, must be for the benefit, as you said, of Basque companies and also of their hand, so that we can have a transport and mobility system that looks much more like European systems and much less like the one we are coming from right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u61	I, Madam Counsellor, cannot agree more with you that a strategic position is necessary in the area of logistics. But, to have a strategic position, you need a strategy, and there is no Basque strategy, there is no strategy – I have proved it myself and you have not contradicted me in your answer. We don't have a Basque strategy. If the BCLM Federation has it, it has a strategic plan, as you mentioned, from 2018 to 2021, and it has very clear its objectives, what it wants to build, what it does not want to build, what it wants to do. And forgive me for the expression, but the Basque government is going on rounds with all the private logistics companies and carrying the boat, and when the logistics companies want to take something they say to it: "The boat, let's put", and you are dedicated to putting on the boat, but you have no strategy. Private companies have the strategy. You told me about the Jundiz-Foronda platform: "We are taking steps to build the infrastructure – well – and we are taking steps to operate it – and you mentioned CAF –." You build it, you pay it 100%, and you operate the CAF. Public-private manual collaboration of his Government. I, Madam Counsellor, cannot understand this, I cannot understand, that you are doing a series of actions, financing a series of actions without a strategy and with a brand that is private, that is private. This will follow the steps of the Arasur platform, to which you have referred with profusion, and I too will refer with profusion, because I already asked you for the Arasur platform, I think in 2017. Arasur has had losses, has losses and will continue to have losses. It had losses of around 3 million euros in 2013; 2.2 million euros in 2014; 1.6 million euros in 2015... Then I asked him and you said, "Looks like things are going to get better." Arasur's billing follows 25 % below 2013. You say, "We're building a railway platform." Yeah, now he's telling me that it's 15 million euros; it was 9, in 2017 it was 9. It has almost multiplied by 60%. Amazing: everything, public money; everything, public money. At the time, when there were 9 million, 3 million put the government; 3 million, the Bilbao Port Authority, and 2.3, the Álava Diputation. Full public money for a company, which manages Arasur, which is Araba Logística, which is 88 % private, 88 % private –44 % Kutxabank and another 44 % Merlin Parques Logísticos, which, I said in 2017, and I repeat again in case your lords have not found out, Merlin Parques Logísticos is a subsidiary of another Madrid, Merlin socimi, which, I have to remember, the companies are listed companies of real estate investment exempt from paying the company tax and with a 95 % bonus in tax of transfers of assets–. I mean, you guys are giving it, raw, to a private company. But also, as with the railway platform does not go back to Arasur, from the strategic bottom of the soil they have given another 2 million euros in purchase of soil and they have also proposed, you have said, a solar plant of 24 megawatts of power. That solar plant isn't going to be Arasur's. That solar plant is going to have 24 Basque companies – some of them as sustainable as Petronor and so on – and they're going to buy the land from Arasur, they're going to buy the land from Arasur, because you've said it in writing – now I don't have the answer, but you look at it if not – you're going to buy the infrastructure, you're going to be the owners of the infrastructure, the soil and the rights, and you're going to buy Arasur the land to make up Arasur's accounts. If all the logistics platforms that we're going to build in this country – be Jundiz-Foronda, be Lezo, that hasn't started yet, but let's see how it goes out there – are like Arasur, we're tied up, counselor. And what I'm asking you to do is stop, make a strategy, see what logistics needs this country has, and then, with all the confidence in the world, our group will support it, but what we cannot continue to endorse, as an opposition group, is that you are putting public money into a private strategy, from private companies, and without any control and without any transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u62	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u63	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I start at the end, Mr. Becerra: "No control and no strategy." You'll like it or not, but control exists, of course, and strategy too. He commented that the sustainable mobility plan is where objectives and actions are defined, not only for logistics, but for mobility as a whole. And of course, when he talks about ownership and infrastructure start-up, he distorts everything he wants and more. Let me talk about infrastructure more generally. The industrial parks, the industrial polygons, the technological parks of this country, who has built them? The public or the private? I believe that we have promoted them among the public for the use and promotion of private activity, I think that is so. It has been a success, it is being a success and, of course, a model to follow in many other places. And so it has been and so it will remain because it is the way we have to do it. What happens, that the infrastructures in which Euskotren is currently moving, which are the railway network, will be paid by the private now? The important infrastructures of this country, such as the railway infrastructure, the port infrastructure or the logistic infrastructure, are, of course, driven, again, by this Government and the Government of the State, because in many things we share, and then they are used to improve the economy and to boost the economy, and they are used by private companies and public enterprises. And, of course, when we are talking about the Jundiz-Lille platform or the platform, no, I'm sorry, about the platform that is going to be made in Jundiz to then be able to exploit all that freight transport between Jundiz and Lille, there is a competition to which public companies, private companies are presented and, in this case, of course, from Basquedi there is a consortium in which other companies participate, but there is a public company, such as Euskotren, and a private company, such as CAF. They are two different things, and do not misunderstand or want to mix, because, of course, whenever infrastructure is put in place, they are done with an important analysis, with an economic analysis, with a cost-benefit analysis and, as you well know and, of course, you have repeated it to me on more than one occasion, the cost-benefit analysis is done on the basis of how much money we have to invest to make it a reality, what benefits it will have, not only economic – and you, of course, usually point out it on more than one occasion – social benefits and environmental benefits. And always, each and every one of the infrastructures that are put into operation, and every time, of course, we do it with much more intensity, they carry a cost-benefit analysis. And each and every one of the infrastructure we're putting into operation is what they're doing. And, of course, Arasur has been running for a long time, but today it is being a reality, with logistics deployments of local companies, with all kinds of deployments, which are currently leading to an Arasur 90% already, of course, in use, which we have been chasing for a long time, today it is being a reality and we have the possibility to continue it. And, of course, the different administrations have to get involved so that that railway platform that will exist in Arasur... And that, of course, has increased in cost because it will provide better services, because it is wider, because it is prepared for the new trains – not those of 500 meters, but those of 750. For all those reasons, which I believe are the ones that we really have to put on the table, they will make Arasur much more competitive than it is today. Then, transparency, everything; planning, too, and we meet, of course, the needs that arise for us, those that we always evaluate with this cost-benefit analysis, and we seek the competitiveness of our private sector, of course, be it logistics, be it industrial. And, of course, as you said, today an industry is not understood without logistics, but yesterday it was not understood either. We didn't give it that much importance, but we didn't understand it either, because the raw material has to get to the door of a company and the finished product has to come out. And if we do not have adequate infrastructure to respond to that situation and we are not well located, of course, that is going to be a reason for that company to move at a certain time. Then, we're going to work because the root of our companies is also tied to being well connected and having sufficient services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies made by María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez, the members of the American American laws of the Mununtinappal Groups to the head of Economics and Sub-1998, the law of April 8th, of changing the country to the development of the environment." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to ask you, Madam Councillor, regarding the legislative programme for this parliamentary term, the 11th Legislature of this House, regarding the commitment reflected in that programme by which your department undertakes to refer the law amending Law 10/98 on Rural Development to the Governing Council for adoption in the first quarter of 2019. The main objective of this amendment is to adapt it to the new rural urban reality, based on parameters other than those of 21 years ago, which is when this law was passed. In addition, to respond to the new trends affecting the future of the rural environment, as well as to the evolution of Community policies and the future role of European regional policy. Similarly, we understand that this law needs to be adapted to developments in the Basque economy, to the development of new opportunities for activity in rural areas and to a new model of territorial development. There are other objectives which are also set out in the document containing this commitment, namely to establish a new system of inter-institutional coordination and collaboration, taking into account the Law on Local Institutions of Euskadi; to rethink the role of rural development associations, to give them greater prominence and guarantee compliance with the Law on Rural Development, and to define the competences, services, participation and collaboration in actions resulting from the implementation of the RDPs. It also proposes to rethink the structures and areas of action of the bodies, such as Landaberri, Landaraba, Landabizkaia and Landagipuzkoa. The reality is that the first quarter of 2019 has already passed and a text approved by the Government on this amendment that was committed has not arrived in this House, and we would like to know why it has not arrived and what situation it is in. We would also like to say to you, Commissioner, that from the People's Group we fully share the need to amend this law and that we also generally share those objectives which are set out in the document and which they intend to address in this amendment. We understand that, after 21 years of its adoption, this law requires an integral update to adapt it to the reality of this moment. But it is true that, reading the law, 21 years have passed, and reference is made to aspects of the rural environment that are today fully present. Yesterday we spoke in this House about the depopulation of rural areas, and in the explanatory statement of this law we talk about the integral development of the Basque rural area, which is possible as long as we are able to create "the conditions necessary to create an attractive environment, capable of curbing its depopulation and attracting new residents and new activities", and for this it is necessary to adapt the equipment, basic services, such as education, health, housing or transport, among others. Like I said, it's been 21 years and it looks like we're where we were. We have a problem, which was detected then, and we continue with it. The current law further states that it is necessary "to articulate the instruments that (...) allow the coordinated projection of sectoral policies on a reality that, like that of the rural environment, transcends purely economic or productive aspects". And these instruments of collaboration and inter-administrative coordination are Landaberri, which we already know is the body attached to his department, in this case, to the department responsible for Agriculture and Rural Development, and the three territorial bodies (Landaraba, Landabizkaia and Landagipuzkoa), which are attached to each of the outlaws, which, in fact, have had almost no activity and the objective for which they were created, of course, has not been achieved. We understand that these coordinating bodies are essential, because the policies that are developed and should be developed in rural areas are cross-cutting. And that, indeed, when standards, plans and laws are made in Health, in Education, there must be a space that contemplates how to apply them in the rural environment. And we understand that these bodies are essential for coordinating these policies. As for Landaberri, which was designed, as I said, as an inter-agency body for collaboration and coordination in the field of rural development in all matters arising from the application of the development law, article 10 of this law lists the functions of Landaberri. And he talks about two aspects. On the one hand, "to inform the proposals for rural development programmes prior to their adoption". And, on the other hand, "to inform, on a prior and mandatory basis, the draft laws, the draft decrees of the Government and the plans and programmes of the common institutions" of the Basque Government which affect in a significant way rural areas, either by referring specifically to the economic activities carried out in them – or to cultural activities, or to services activities – or by giving rise to situations which condition the future viability of the activities and services in relation to the objectives of the rural development policy established by that law. In addition, the Act also contains an annex listing all plans to be reported by Landaberri. Madam Counsellor, when the Basque Government, your department, says that it wants to rethink the structures of areas of action of bodies such as Landaberri, we would like to know what it means. Do you want to reduce the tasks mandated by the law? Do you want to reduce coordination capacity? We, as a People's Group, have always insisted on the full functioning of Landaberri. I would like to recall that the Rural Development Act was passed in this House by an absolute majority; all groups supported this law. I believe that it was a very hard-working law, of course from our group, the parliamentarian who carried this law in this House made working groups in the different territories to look for the sensitivity and how this law should be developed. And these organs, especially we saw them as very important and we continued to see them as important and necessary. I would like to remind you that in 2008 our group raised an inquiry with the Councillor, Mr Sáenz de Samaniego, about the fulfilment of Landaberri's objectives, and told us that it was a pioneering body, which was an organ, indeed, which was copied by the Rural Development Act of the Government of Spain, of the Government of Zapatero, of the Act of 2007; but, nevertheless, it questioned its operationality: that its work was improved, that it was prepared to promote a review of its functioning, that it considered sterile to claim that Landaberri controls all and each of the provisions being developed by the Government, which seemed to it to be excessive. And he said that from the analysis of Landaberri's functioning one can come to the conclusion that Landaberri's focus should go more to those issues properly dedicated to the sector. In addition, he understood that it would further strengthen Landaberri's position and relevance because it would be more credible. We, Madam Counselor, would like to know if you share these reflections. We would like to know what role a coordinating body similar to Landaberri should have and what role they want to play in this new modification, because, as I said, we consider it important and that the functions assigned to Landaberri are necessary. Another thing is how we execute them. A motion was adopted unanimously in this House, in which the Government undertook to draw up a report with measures and improvements for the operation of Landaberri. The legislature ended and we never again had such a document, as is often the case. Madam Counsellor, we would like to know at what stage the development of this law is at, if it is possible for it to enter this legislature, at least before the end of the year, in order to then be able to discuss it, and what role – which is what we are concerned about – will be played by the administrative coordination bodies, both the territorial bodies of the parliaments and that of the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I think you've transmitted very well, Mrs. López de Ocariz, the situation and why we started amending this law from the department. It was a commitment of this legislature to amend the Rural Development Act, since, after so many years, we have to respond to the trends that are occurring both in what is happening in rural areas, the relationship between rural areas and the city, and above all what is happening in Community policies and how they have to be transposed at regional level. Well, as a result of all this – and in addition to the fact that we have to incorporate, you said, issues of health, education, of course, territorial issues, issues of energy, of consumption, well, a number of aspects that we believe need to be included – we started at the beginning of this legislature, under the Rural Development Directorate, trying to set up a working group that would allow this law to be amended. Well, from the beginning, as I was saying, we got to work, considering that we were also going to have to incorporate the CAP amendment and how all this was going to have an impact on the new rural development law or the amendment of the Rural Development Act, what success had occurred in the previous one or was occurring, what dysfunctions existed, some of which you commented – Landaberri and Landagipuzkoa, Landaraba and Landabizkaia – well, all those elements that allowed us to continue working. And in that sense, what we did was to analyze what subjects had to be incorporated and what was, among them, what happened with all the information and communication technologies; how that impacted rural development, not just agricultural development, which we sometimes focused on too much, but how it impacted so that new economic activity could be established in rural areas; well, the loss of weight in the agricultural sector, of course, in all that was the economic sector; how elements of hospitality, gastronomy, energy impacted in all that sense; urban development, what was happening, how we were focusing on cities in the face of rural development; how new infrastructures that were being put into operation could also impact rural development; how land could be artificialized; how there was less soil for agricultural development, and yet there was more forest mass, more land dedicated to forestry; well, what impact did the development of the Natura 2000 Network have on the protection of certain sites? In short, a number of areas which, analysed throughout that time, together with all that was going to be, I insist, the new Community agricultural policy, why not in addition to the UN's sustainable development objectives, how it all affected rural areas, well, led to the conclusion that the amendment of the current law was not enough and that what we had to put into operation for all the changes and all the elements that had to be introduced was a new rural development law. We therefore moved from changing the law to establishing a new rural development law. Well, all that, of course, led us to try to modify or use the old law and to introduce these modifications, and although we had a first draft, we did not recognize a good law of rural development done. What we did was go one step back and, in the first half of 2017, we drew a strategic document defining the new lines that should be incorporated into this law. And we have, of course, drawn up an outline of what the new law should be and where reference was made to redefining the general and sectoral strategic objectives, and we had to adapt the objectives set out in the 98 law to take account of the new changes and parameters, which are obvious. That we should restructure governance, seeking the establishment of a more advanced governance that would, of course, act from bottom to bottom, that would take into account the sector, that would take into account all the other institutions involved, of course the outside parliaments, and how they should interact with sectoral actors and, in addition, with the Government, and establish more effective and, moreover, more modern governance. And that we should renew those instruments that would lead us to a more efficient, more coordinated political action and, of course, to a development and modification of the current situation through, also, the financial instruments that were being articulated and that the new CAP is also putting into operation. Well, all this has already led us to have a draft law that we have begun to contrast with the outside parliaments, of course with the ADRs, with the sectoral agents involved. And I have to tell you that this process is, of course, very participatory but very slow, and that it has led us to have up to 21 amendments to that initial document – which means that the initial document was also not the best possible one – and that we have been improving it, and that at this point we already have a draft – a preliminary draft law – which I will comment on later on your administrative situation. This preliminary draft law, if we compare it with the previous law, has a number of substantial changes that I would like to point out and are, on the one hand, that we base the approach of this law on which it integrates the concept of "rurality" and that it advances in that territorial development rather than focusing, as I said before, on what is agricultural development only, but it addresses it from a much more global and much broader point of view, which integrates other types of action, which integrates different departments or actions from different departments of the Government and, on the other hand, from other institutions, as you rightly pointed out. That it also update and redefine the general objectives "It is clear that after 20 years they have become obsolete." That we have a new zoning, that is, that we establish well what are the urban areas, the peri-urban ones, type 1, type 2, coastlines, intermediates... That is, that we define the present areas differently, as a result of the fact that territorial development has been carried out over 20 years in an orderly manner, but that it is not well reflected in the current law. In addition, let us also take into account all local action groups – those appearing in the Leader – in a way that is already modernised and up-to-date. At the institutional level, let us coordinate and share these working bodies between the Basque Government, outside parliaments, and let us expand and give more capacity to an agrarian and food policy commission, to the field of rural development, taking into account all its contributions to what will be the future development of the country. In addition, of course, Landaberri's subject we have considered in a special way, and what is proposed is to act in a way that is being done in the United Kingdom, which we have considered to be the most suitable, perhaps to our characteristics, which is what they call rural proofing. At the local level, we also reinforce the role of Hazi and his approach to all governance, so that that bottom-up policy Finally, it is important to highlight all that is the strengthening of different financial instruments, instruments of action that allow us to implement actions more modern than those we have used so far, updating those instruments that have worked properly. How do we find ourselves, anyway, right now? Well, last May 15th Tramitagune was already incorporated into this preliminary draft law – this draft law – and soon we will have the approval order, and it is put in public display, so that all the documents can be collected, all the reports by the government. We are aware that all the preparation of these reports can be lengthy, but we are committed, however, to trying to speed up all the deadlines so that before the end of this year, it is approved by the Governing Council and the new rural development law proposed by the Government, with the agreement of the three outlaws, is introduced into this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u69	Yes, thank you, Madam Counsellor, for the explanations, for knowing how the work is, because, indeed, we did not know the procedure that was being carried out, although we knew that something was being worked on, but we certainly did not know that it was a modification and that this was going to be a new law. I think it is appropriate because, indeed, when a law requires so many amendments, it is no longer a modification in the end, but it must be seen as a new text. You spoke of those new aspects that must be incorporated – with which we fully agree, as I have said before – and of the control bodies that we have had so far. He was like, "No, Landaberri was just reporting." No, I had two parts. It had in its functions one that was "reports" and another "preceptive reports". That's not reporting alone. Yeah, yeah, but they're "preceptive," "predictive and preceptive." So, it was something else, probably. And that's right, I think there has been, and I have to say so, a certain lewdness of the Administration itself, and from its own department, because I asked, for example, in 2017, to send me the reports that Landaberri had issued in recent years, and he says, "No, Landaberri doesn't issue reports." Well, yes, because that's what the law says. And you yourselves, in your documents, when you make a relationship of a decree and what reports you should carry, make mention of Landaberri's report. Another thing is that they do it later. If someone asks him a lot, they do, and if not, they don't. With this, I believe there has been a lechery of the department itself in which Landaberri did not perform the duties assigned to him. In any case, participation in this process of drawing up ADRs, the parliaments and the bodies that will then implement rural development policies is necessary because, to the extent that everything is involved, it will probably be much more understandable, agile and shared and, therefore, rural development policies can be more successful, because in many cases, if there has been no success in rural development plans and programmes, it has been for lack of knowledge and for lack of coordination of certain programmes. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, we agree with this new law. What we want is for it to arrive as soon as possible, and that would be interesting, in order to be able to pass it in this legislature. And, of course, let it then have the effect that we all want for the rural environment, which is necessary, that yesterday we talked about it and put it on the table in this House, that the rural world is suffering a significant decline, both in agricultural activity and in the population living in it and in the services provided. And as the law says, which was done 21 years ago, for we continue with those problems that were already seen and that have become acute today. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, this is an important and necessary task, a very necessary one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u71	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Very briefly, Mrs López de Ocariz, first of all, I thank you for the provision because you are aware of what the law is, of the situation in rural areas and of all the actions we have to carry out. And I agree with you that if we incorporate the maximum number of actors into this law and there is a broad consensus, then also the processing in this House will probably be much simpler. It is our will, of course, that this law allows for a change in the performance of this greater involvement of all the agents, which we have, of course, the ability to incorporate into their contributions. And as far as Landaberri is concerned, it is true that there are a number of reports that can be or are mandatory, not all of them, but in any case, what we intend to do is that they can also be binding on occasion, so that they are given much more capacity to act. It is therefore our will that this process, which is often lengthy within the Government, should be kept to a minimum and that the presentation of that law should be a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Japan, Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio Espulka, a member of the United States, made to the chief physician of the Commercial and Society, concerning the finances of the professions of persons who have a disaffection in 2019." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Good morning especially to you, Mrs Artolazabal, to whom I am addressing the question. You know very well that a few weeks ago Mr Franco and Mr Moratalla were present in the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Youth to present to us, on behalf of the EHLABE, what problems they have or what problems the sector has to face right now, which directly affect Lanbide's budget allocations for special employment centres, aimed at promoting employment for people with disabilities. I understand that it is a sector of the labour market which is particularly protected by the characteristics of the workers, and hence precisely the amount of subsidies normally received in the budgets. They are facing a critical situation right now. They put us as a red line in June of this year. For two reasons, they are in this critical situation. The first of these, for a practice, well, a bad practice when drawing up budgets, which has actually led to the correction of the amounts over the duration of the budget of each year and, in this situation of budget extension, are being met with starting amounts at the beginning of the budget that are less than the needs that you, as a department, well know. And on the other hand – it gives me the same as 40, 60 % one, or 60 % the first and 40 the second – on the other hand, the increase in the amounts of the interprofessional minimum wage, which have been in force since January this year. In this situation, they need EUR 20.5 million. I take it, Madam Counsellor, that the will is to resolve this matter. Then, assuming that the will is to solve the matter, knowing that there is money to deal with that situation, I ask you, clearly and simply – it is very easy – when you are going to solve it and how you are going to solve it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u75	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. As you rightly say, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, the intention we have from the Government is to continue working and supporting companies and special employment centres. I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the work and collaboration that we have been doing throughout the legislature, because we have a common objective, which is to support these people with special difficulties in accessing employment. Throughout the legislature we have worked with Ehlabe to address the financial sufficiency that special employment centres have. It is true that we have been dragging a budget deficit, which over the years we have been healing. In 2016, we had an initial allocation of 30 million euros, which was expanded by 2,850,000 euros to meet that gap we had. Already in 2017, the amount we had allocated to the special employment centres, to the maintenance and to the creation of such employment was 33,790,000 (3,790,000 euros more), which were supplemented by 5,053,000 euros. And in 2018, keeping that same initial amount of 33,700,000, we complemented with 8,292,000. For the year 2019, we in the preliminary draft budgets set the appropriate, correct and sufficient amount to meet the needs that the special employment centres had, which comes to be about 41 million euros, and that appeared in the preliminary draft law. It is true that we are in a situation of extension and that, therefore, at the moment we have to be working with the Department of Finance to enable those amounts. And it is also true that there has been a situation outside of us, which conditions the wage costs we have in relation to the special employment centres – as you said – the increase in the SMI and, also, the increase of 50 to 55% of those who have a more serious disability. Therefore, the costs have further increased, and in this we are working, addressing it from the Department of Social Policy, together with the Department of Finance, to adequately equip the necessary amounts throughout 2019 to meet the financial need that the special employment centres have had. I am aware of Ehlabe's concern; we too have that same concern, but we are in the process of resolving a problem that is caused by a budgetary situation and a number of constraints that from the state, when there is an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, affect the wage costs that we have to face.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Ruiz de Arbulo jauna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u77	Gracias, president. Mrs Artolazabal, I'm going to have to change my strategy because I ask you two very clear and very simple questions and you take three long minutes not to answer. I said, "How are you going to do it?". You told me they're going to do it; you didn't tell me how. Anyway, technically, how they're gonna fix it, and when. And he hasn't answered me on what date either. When can you transfer that response to the representatives of Ehlabe? The representatives of Ehlabe came here because this question had already been raised both to you and to the Department of Finance. In his apartment they were sent to Mr. Azpiazu's and Mr. Azpiazu's to his. And no one answered him and no one put a solution on the table. The red line is June. Why? Because in July they don't have the money to pay the payroll. It's just that June starts tomorrow. And I ask you when, and you haven't told me "immediately, in a week, in two weeks, in three weeks, in four weeks, this is done." The special employment centres do not, for the most part, have the capacity or financial muscle to cope with the July payrolls. I ask you when and how you're going to do it, and you haven't answered me either. Those legislative changes in Madrid that they mean, how about... Look, in order to cope with the payment of staff salaries, the means were immediately enabled, and in February they were receiving the necessary increase. To deal with the legislative change of the interprofessional minimum wage, we are in June, which begins tomorrow, and you have done nothing. You can answer me in your time, please, to transfer the representatives of Ehlabe and the thousands of workers who know that their payroll is in danger in July, how they are going to do it, when they are going to do it. These are two very simple questions. Let us see if this time we can come up with the answers to leave a sector that must be, for the people's government, especially protected and, for the moment, is not, because they are very concerned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u78	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u79	I, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, would like you not to be alarmist, not to create an alarm situation in that group. I think it is irresponsible what you have moved because we continue to work and we are doing it together with them, with Ehlabe, with Mr Moratalla and with Mr Franco, that we have direct contact. We know about the difficulties, we know about the problems, but we also know what budgetary position we are in, of extension. If the budgets had been approved, that situation would be met from the 1st minute. And two, yes, we are working with the Department of Finance and, as soon as possible, when it is possible in the administrative field, we will face the wage costs that we have to face so that they can collect the payrolls of these people, which is also a priority of the department and the government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Josu Estarrona Elizondo, the parliamentary member of the Union, was made to the chief physician of Eplegus and Societys, the prerogatives of the young, and the direct influence of the difficulties of birth." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. The Euskal treaty of Artola generous, family, and childhood, is IV. Family Plan, First Option, Young Friend, Youth Return Helps... According to all data, these pacts, plans, or programs do not respond to one of the principal commercial problems we have in our country, they do not even change so much as a few tentitudes. It's a sign that the year before Eustate made a public date about the 2018th birth rate of 5.8%. And this data is a consequence, the result of certain specific public policies. It is evident, therefore, that in the former law, and in this case the measures which this government has set forth are not effective. That's why, I'm asking you, if you're going to continue applying the same sizes that you've started until now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u82	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u83	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Estarrona, I think we have the same concern about the situation from the point of view of birth, of the emancipation of young people, when it comes to being able to implement policies, but this problem is not only a problem of this community, nor of this country, nor of these administrations, but it is a global problem, in which all the advanced societies find themselves. As regards the current birth rates and the emancipation of young people, the situation in Euskadi is similar to that recorded in the most advanced and developed societies of the European Union. As in the rest of the countries, the Basque Government is working to provide better conditions for our young people to develop a life plan in their emancipation guaranteed by quality employment as soon as possible. And, as is also the case elsewhere, the solution is not easy, as it is not a matter of an administration or a government, but trends and new youth attitudes too, well, are generating a series of expectations within a wider world. But you are also aware of the initiatives that are being implemented by this Government during this parliamentary term. It has listed a number of programmes, has listed a number of plans, has listed a number of strategies in support of families and youth. And we do it with programs and we do it with a plan, right? Plans in the field of work and family reconciliation; we have that decree which, in the near future, we hope, will allow for the equalization of parental leave by autumn; also the economic support for new sons and daughters – 50% per second child – which we have approved during this legislature; we are working on access to housing; on training for employment... They do so in other countries as well. We have problems, but we all have to try to find a global solution. Look, there was an article that appeared in a media outlet in which a researcher from the Higher Research Council said that the countries of southern Europe are in line because we are an area that, traditionally, because of its religion, because women have entered the labour market later, had higher fertility. That situation is not taking place at this time in Euskadi. We have a birth problem. It is also a problem that has to do with the values and culture of our country, but that problem is not only of Euskadi or of the countries of southern Europe, but countries as advanced as the Nordics or France are now falling back on these birth rates. What we have to do is keep moving forward, putting in place and implementing the measures that appear in the different plans. One of our objectives, as I have commented, is reconciliation in family and work life. We have the programmes, such as that of Kontzilia30, which we are also working with Basque companies to ensure that the working conditions of workers allow young women and women to have the children we want. We're working on this parenting decree. We have also made progress in the decree that has to do with the accessibility of children to haur-eskolak. So I think we have a strategy, we have a series of measures... The changes aren't gonna come overnight. We have talked about this on numerous occasions. We are laying the groundwork for this trend to reverse and to do so are important from the point of view of housing, from the point of view of employment and from the point of view of conciliation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u85	You say, Mrs Artolazabal, that this is not just a problem for this administration and this country. Yes, I would like you to look a little at the data from other parts of Europe where the situation and socio-economic reality are similar to ours, and that you are not always looking down and looking a little bit up. You say you have a series of strategies and a series of measures, but yesterday my colleague Iker Casanova said that "crazy is always doing the same thing waiting for different results", and that is what is happening to them. And that we share concerns. We are very concerned that the youth unemployment rate remains twice the European average, and we are concerned that the average wage of young people between the ages of 16 and 29 is EUR 1,000. We are concerned that only one contract will be formalized in the Basque Government's youth return programme in 2017; in 2018, six, and this 2019 seems to be going the same way. We are very concerned that the average rent in Euskadi is 944 euros and that the government's star housing programme for young people (Gaztelagun) sets the limit for receiving assistance at 750 euros. We are very concerned that in the last decade the housing budget in Euskadi has fallen by 34%. We are concerned that our young people and our young people are on the line in Europe at the age of emancipation. And we are concerned that, as a result of all the above, the average age for having the first child is the highest in Europe: 31.9 years. And, of course, the birth rate is still falling. But even though this is very worrying, the most worrying thing is not that, the most worrying thing, and you have just shown it here, is the self-complacent attitude of this Government, the nil reaction to the results and data, and the lack of will or inability to make courageous decisions that will solve the structural problems facing young people in this country. We challenge the people, but to increase the rate of birth is no longer in this respect irrigation, as President Urkullu said; the object of the people, the challenge of the people, ought to be reserved for worthy lives. Our problem is not, as you have said several times, that we must bring children to maintain pensions, or because we need work. We're not talking about the funding of the well-being model. It is a question whether we young people and not so young can choose whether they are children or not, and to give them social and economic conditions in this country, because we are not all the same to be parents nowadays. And in this we are to act, to produce good social conditions, and to give courage and a quantum leap in the niceties directed to youth. Because this reality will not be reversed by giving the second year 500 euros per child. Quality employment must be guaranteed, for example by applying social clauses in public procurement. Or it would also help to establish a minimum wage of 1,200 euros, or to develop the Housing Act to promote the emancipation of young people. This is the best birth policy, measures that deal with youth insecurity, measures that, if there is will, can be implemented from now on. Because our young people have the right to dream about a future built from the present and, above all, because if we have young people without a future, we will soon be facing a future without young people. And it's starting to be too late.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u86	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u87	Mr Estarrona, we are indeed implementing policies. Throughout this legislature we want to reverse the trend. We're not going to do improvised things; we have a plan and we're going to carry it forward.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask questions, the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Laura Garrido Körors, a member of Eplegus and Polic Society, the development index of social services on the 2018th part of the autonomy section." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments, congressmen. We have recently learned the findings of the study on the rate of development of social services by autonomous communities. In that study, Commissioner, there are shortcomings and setbacks in some specific points. I am referring to home care, I am also referring to the fact that there is a lack of efficiency between the expenditure made by public administrations and the final coverage that it reverts to citizens, in the provision of specific services. This report, which is a rigorous report, points out that we have lost positions if we compare it with other autonomous communities. And in particular, in 2018 we have a rating of 7.20. It is still high, but we have lost the degree of excellence: we have lost 4.5 tenths compared to 2017, which we had 7.75 points, and we have lost even more difference with 2015, which we lost 8.5 tenths, when we had 8.05 points. There is therefore a clear setback in some specific issues. We wanted to ask you about this issue, Madam Counsellor, about the conclusions of this study, which clearly points out that there are aspects that can be improved, how you see it and whether you intend to implement some concrete measures to reverse the situation of setback in some specific aspects.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u90	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u91	Thank you, ma'am. Again. As you say, Mrs Garrido, the study to which you refer conveys a particular vision of the development of public social service systems in the different autonomous communities. And the report, in its first paragraph, dedicated especially to Euskadi, says that "one more year the Basque Country remains the best valued community in the development of its public social services system". We have analyzed the data, within that permanent sample of improvement and commitment we have with the Basque social services system, and the study also offers an overview that shows that the State Administration has not recovered the cuts it made in its day in social services, and that we therefore have a way to go. That DEC index, it is interesting to read, contains important contributions in which we are carrying out an analysis, but it must also be borne in mind that the information from which the party is to be able to carry out that analysis is information that is not derived by the Basque institutions, but rather information that is collected from reports, memories and that, therefore, it must be taken with that precaution. It is still an important report, which we have within our initiatives in order to be able to further improve, and there are some aspects that appear in that report that we have doubts about its veracity. For example, what has to do with teleassistance. It is an own resource, that is managed by the Basque Government, and of that we do have reliable data on what we do. According to the study we have a coverage of 9.2% in people over 65 years of age and, with the data we contemplate within the department, this coverage rate increases to 11.33. It is an example, Mrs Garrido, to convey to you that, being an important report, from our point of view, you lack some more truthful information. We are referencing them, visiting us from other social services of other autonomous communities. Of course we have aspects of improvement; our social services are complex services in time to their institutional architecture. But I do have the idea that we are still the best autonomous community in the whole state. We make an important effort all the Basque institutions, although we have a margin of improvement in which we are working to continue to be and regain that excellence that we have had.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u93	Well, counselor, I believe that we are dealing with an absolutely rigorous, reliable report that contrasts data, and that the conclusions are very clear. Man, to say here, or come to say that the most rigorous reports are those made by the Basque Government, which are absolutely on the side, for, well, it is an opinion and can be an attitude, but, in any case, I do not think that it is a report that can be underestimated and that cannot be taken into account. Indeed, you have remained in the middle of the sentence, because then, following the sentence and the corresponding paragraph, it is clearly said that, while losing the rating of excellent, it reduces your overall fluctuation in recent years, and the score – what I have told you – from 2017 to 2018 has dropped 4.5 tenths, and from 2015 to 2018, 8.5 tenths. It is clear that there are weak points in the Basque system of social services. I don't have to remind you what has been the development of the Social Services Act, the expectations generated.... We have discussed these issues extensively. Specific initiatives in the area of dependency, the outstanding issues, especially in an autonomous community where there is a problem of population ageing, of demographic challenge, where clearly the provision of certain services, such as home care – where there is a setback in that report – is going to be increasing in the coming years. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, I do not think it is a matter of minimizing it at all. On the other hand, there is also recognition of a clear imbalance, as he said, in the rights recognized in the legislation itself and in the expectations of the development of the law itself. One position can be self-congratulation, and like here, well, we're still the ones who spend the most... But it is clear that the report clearly shows an important aspect, which is inefficiency. That is to say, it is very much spent, but it seems that we are not very efficient in spending and in achieving effective coverage in the provision of certain services and services to citizens. So don't tell me everything's fine. I want to know whether you are doing some sort of self-criticism or are considering some kind of forward-looking action to correct some situation in some specific aspects.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u94	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u95	Mrs Garrido, the report is an important report. We do not minimize the conclusions that that report says. In addition, I believe that the reflections that are moving there are important, but I would also like to make it clear that we have a system of care that is efficient, that we have to improve on that efficiency, because, although it is true that we make a very important investment – of 703 euros/year – regarding what other communities can do – which do not even reach 300 euros – I think we have something to improve on. But I would also like to put on the table and stress that in the area of rights and economics, Euskadi maintains that qualification of excellence, which Euskadi continues to highlight over the rest of the autonomous communities, although, of course, we always have aspects of improvement, and that point of efficiency is something that concerns us and that we are busy with. That this report, as far as rights and system management are concerned, positively highlights our law – which guarantees citizens' rights – also highlights the catalogue that develops them and also applauds our strategic planning. And it is true that we have a series of recommendations, such as home care – or another series of issues – in which we have...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, made to Ogas and Economia Chief of Esquire and Economia, about the contributions made by the Benu-de-Estubines to finance the budgets of Eusalia. " Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u97	Thank you, Madam President, again. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Azpiazu, much has been said about the legislative timetable this morning. At the beginning of the plenary session, there had been a number of interventions calling on the Government to comply with that legislative timetable. The legislative calendar is not a legislative relationship of projects to bring along during a legislature; "calendar" is because it has a few dates, and you are quite late with the contribution law. I know there have been reasons, or you have used them, reasons or excuses, not to bring in that bill of contributions, that law that has that name so long and so complex, 2017-2021, we are in 2019. If you hurry, it could enter into force on the 20th. It's a little ridiculous that a law called "17-21" is "20-21" actually when it's in force. But, well, today the lehendakari has given us a new brushstroke and said that they were waiting for the formation of our new outside parliaments, of the new general boards of the three territories, to definitely push or continue the work that is already being done so far to draft that bill. He has made it clear – I suppose it is also important – that the municipalities of all our municipalities conform so that the association that represents them, Eudel, also has something to say, because I think it has a lot to say in the elaboration of this bill of contributions. I come back, although I have not succeeded with Mrs Artolazabal, to try, Mr Azpiazu. Will you tell me when you will bring this project to Parliament, which has already been approved? It is your question, here we are only going to debate and adopt, we are not going to make amendments. It has a peculiarity in the procedure and, therefore, the responsibility is entirely yours. When are you bringing him in? When will it come into force? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u99	Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I am not yet going to give you a specific date, but I imagine that you already expected this answer. You had this question scheduled for 8 March and, since there was no plenary on that day, you have now introduced it again in this session, and I must tell you that since then there have hardly been any substantial changes, except for the electoral issue, or any new developments, to modify my response to what I would have given you at that time, but in any case I want to reassure you, Mr Arbulo, I want to reassure you. The outlaws make contributions to the Basque Government with complete normality and without any problems. Law 2/2007 – I believe you have been confused over the years – is from 2007 to 2011. We have been in extension since year 12, we have been in extension seven years, but it is fully in force because extension is something that is also covered by the law. We are not, of course, in any irregular or much less illegal situation, and, as you know, on 14 February last the Basque Public Finance Council took place, which could be the first step towards the new contribution law. This first step was the creation of an extraordinary fund which will be activated if one or two historical territories fail to collect 99 % of their horizontal coefficient, with the current limit of the General Adjustment Fund. The amount of this fund will, as I said, have a limit of 0.45% of the resources to be distributed, around EUR 60 million. The government will contribute 50 % and the rest (50 %), the outlaws according to their horizontal coefficients. The agreement that has given rise to this measure has been unanimous within the Basque Finance Council, integrated, as you say, by the Basque Government, outlaws and, also, Eudel. Undoubtedly, an opportunity to further develop a new contribution law in which all levels feel really comfortable. As you know, it is not just any law, it is a rule that requires a high political and institutional consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u100	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u101	Well, I am surprised, Mr Azpiazu, that you do not give me a specific date. You are a very serious, very orderly man, and I thought that you had this project in mind and that you had an immediate solution to this project because, indeed, as you have said, an important political consensus is needed. Political consensus that they have within their party or have had, so far, within their party. Of course, if you are unable to reach a political consensus within the same acronyms representing different historical territories, it is very difficult for that political consensus, as we have seen in other aspects of this legislature, to be carried out with others who defend or defend different acronyms. I'll give you an idea. Look, Mr Azpiazu, there are two of the three historical territories, two of the three outlying estates, which are the ones that provide funding to the rest of the Basque institutions, both to the Basque Government and to the municipalities, which are protesting – not now, not since March 8th, not since March 8th, but since March 8th – they are protesting and are demanding a change in this law precisely to avoid caps like the one they passed this year in February, because they are not happy with the collection percentages. The problem is, of course, so far what one doesn't want to put would have to put another. I offer you a chance. As it seems that the problem is between the three territories, which do not agree to lower the percentages to which each has to face, I propose a different question. Since it seems to you that there is money left – well, that I have read in the press, because as you also do not comply with the law and do not bring us here the budgetary execution of the exercise, as it is ordered, not this year, the previous and the previous, like the socialist governments, we do not know exactly what part of the budget they have stopped executing, but I calculate that about 1 billion in the year 18 – as you have the money left, why don't you lower the percentages that the outlaws have to give to cover the expenses of the Basque Government, if then you don't execute it? Perhaps that would enable us to stop the three territories from facing each other, to reach a quick agreement, to reach an agreement in October at the Basque Public Finance Council and, immediately, to bring us the bill that can enter into force on 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u103	Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, you already know that the date does not depend on me. But, apart from that, I don't know why you get the impression that the government's financial situation is better than that of other institutions. That is, of course, an issue that must be seen, and that must be reflected, in coherence, in the law of contributions. I insist, we work for a new law and we will continue to do so, we will devote all the time it takes to have the best contribution law. The technical working group has met on more than 30 occasions throughout this year and a half, and the commitment of the Government and all institutions is negotiation and agreement on methodology. I hope, however, that when this project comes to this House it will have your support and that of your parliamentary group, as well as that of the other groups in this House. He knows that we must combine the complicated balance between the responsible exercise of the powers of public policies at each institutional level and the adequate funding for the exercise of those powers. It is therefore a question of drafting and adopting a law which, taking into account the socio-economic characteristics of each territory, also provides a horizon of certainty and stability for the whole of our institutional system; a law which must continue on the basis of two principles which, after all, are the two sides of the same currency: neutrality and financial sufficiency. Mr. Arbulo, we're on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u104	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interpology, members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Team members of the Board of Education, about the aspirations of the education of the grown-ups." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u105	Good morning, ma'am. Do you have any idea what you're up to for the education of grown-ups? What's the point, Mrs. Uriart, teaching grown-ups, student, with the entire community, creating a new conflict? What do you need in a place where there shouldn't be a problem? We don't understand, really. We've been patient in the education field, we've been waiting a long time, and I'll explain to you why we're being patient in this area. Look, we gathered the Basque People, and together Duguk, together with me, registered an illegal one on the 5th of May 2017. On June 6th, 2018, we waited a year before taking him to the discussion. Why did we wait? Because they told us that educational schools directors were negotiating with fun and interviewing and the results of the interviews we were waiting for. But at last it appeared that there was nothing at all, and that the intention of the Board of Education seemed to be more to distract them in private, to spend time and prolong them, than to extract anything definite. When we made a discussion the subject began to move, and began to work with a vortex of proclamations. What a coincidence! But in the meantime, we agreed in the Parliament, and the crew reporter started up. Is that what you're doing? In other words, when the reporter group started, and it is supposed that some consequences will come out of it, then you, instead of waiting, act on one-sidedly, the most difficult thing is to do, instead of doing a good work with the groups, looking for consents and seeking means. Instead of doing so, you are one-sided, making everyone angry. Because if you've done something, everybody's mad. But it is true, and it must be admitted that you are voted by the people, and that they suppose you nothing, and that the citizens easily forgive you. But, after all, wouldn't it be better for you all to agree with each other? And then, if we did wrong, we'd share the blame. No, it looks like you don't even need it. You always do the hardest. But I find it very difficult to enter or understand why you give so little importance to this important medium, such as the education of grown-ups, and what reason can there be behind it? I don't understand. Could it be that you want to privatize that area? But even from a public perspective and a public financial point of view, it'll cost you more. So I don't know, I don't understand. Maybe you can explain this to us tonight's performance. But I still do. We're working on power jobs, and in the 20th, as you know, we should've brought our conclusions to each team. We introduced them. We have represented our conclusions, where we determine the functions and ends of education. I don't know if the other teams have introduced him or not. I don't know. I don't know them, I don't know them. But we're ready to agree with the other teams, we're ready to agree with the fun, and we're ready to agree with the adults' education operators as well. I don't know if the Board of Education has any integrity for that. Today you've explained to me whether or not you're ready to restructe the decree or not; you're ready, because you haven't been ready until now to negotiate with the adult community and get an understanding. I mean, to account for everyone's contributions. We all know the situation in which the education of grown-ups was founded. We all know. But we all know it's been a very important role. We all know. And we all know, or at least think, that the paper which, from the modification in society at this moment, and the challenges we have, is very important, such as the whole life's form and education. You're constantly playing with the former President of lópez de Gueréñu Confebask. I listened to him as the whole of his life and education, but you don't really wear your tools, and you don't really wear them. Here also is the ponposous law of 2013, but having it not yet fulfilled, as is manifest. It's a very important tool to look at the complete educational formation of adults, as an inclusion tool, to lead to an active life of age... Well, of course, we'll have to make some adaptations and we'll have to adapt to new times... We, at least, are more and more convinced of the importance of the education of the grown-ups, and are more and more convinced by the occurrences we have had, not only when regulated, but also when they are not regulated. But we don't really know what you think of all this, Madam Uriarte. We don't know. We don't know and we'd like to get some tips this time. Is this department, this government ready to strengthen the education of grown-ups? Is it ready to penetrate into a less regular form, and, by the way, to gain efficiency even in public finances? Is your adult education ready to be used as an inclusion tool? Look, we have a huge problem with segregation. Well, with college schools, education, education of adults, an agreement to direct them into the formation and power of families... Several things can be done which we do not do. Then also with his profession, and when Lord de Belandia also came, he showed integrity to "encomenda de gestion." And there, too, we can solve several of the problems we have with the rent. So many things you can't do! We also want to know if you're going to check the résumé. Such a simple thing! Well, my list is very long. We determine several ends and functions, but what we want to know is what the projects of this department are, Mrs. Orrei.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u107	Mr. President of the Parliament, Chief, Congressman, good day. Mrs. Ubera, I would like to begin my speech by explaining the rules of education and determining the source of need for this education. In the first place, the 1/2013 Act of October, about the High School of Life, was formed by the four ends it contains in its explanation: Determining a legal experiment that will encourage and regulate an efficient system of learning throughout Eukadin's lifetime, which will strengthen the chances for the access to the work that participates in it, and for social integration. The establishment of a united system of professions, and based on the study of life, the satisfaction of the valuation and recalculation of the citizens of euphora for the rest of their life. To promote a life-indication system. And to promote an association of institutions which constitute the Esquimic Esquimia Erelic Administration. Similarly, setting up a system that will enable us to learn all our lives together enables us to change the preparation and to change the traditional idea that it is now. In fact, this task was up to this time acknowledged to the people who had been admitted by the institutions: to schools, to business centers, and to universitys. The work of association between public institutions will also be necessary, and a partnership between these public institutions and private agents. Another fundamental rule is that of 236/2015 Decree which defines the curriculum of the Basic Education and puts Euscal Autonomy in Ermate. The supplementary fourth regulations are spoken of by the mature persons who desire to acquire the qualities and knowledge of their elementary education. The fourth following additional regulations are as follows: "The fundamental competitions of education, and the adults who wish to acquire knowledge, will be offered to their condition, either in presence or in remote education." "It will be developed in the elementary education of grown-ups according to a specific curriculum, the II of this decree. adjusting the resumes of the attachment." The production of a more general, more cultural, and permanent society requires the improvement of personal capacities, in order that the citizens may adapt themselves to a complex community. He has created new wants for the education of the community and the promotion of life, connected with personal development. Because technology and production system are rapidly developing, that requires a constant adaptation and redefiction of learning, ability, and professional training. By this means education and training must be exercised in another respect, in order to face the new challenges which the society of knowledge has in society, since it is the chief feature of this society that the people have improved in all their perfection in education and preparation. It is essential that the population should offer a chance of personal, social, professional development, considering that they are entirely connected with each other. It must be necessary to encourage an integrated system that will encourage them to learn all their lives, which will continue after children's education and retirement, and which will put all the citizens into it. This system ought to ensure that the fundamental faculties are acquired and developed, and that all men, especially those which are most injured, should be united in social, economy, politics, and culture, and encourage them to participate in them, and to be initiated or creative. Considering all this and answering your question, the Board of Education is at work to guarantee the right of education by grown-ups and today has two reference for its action. First, a sketch of a new decree which will determine the curriculum of elementary education and place it in Euscal Autonomy Er member. This being absolutely necessary, to give an answer to the fourth additional regulations mentioned. And, on the other hand, and as important as the former, the resolution to organize the public schools of education of adult learning. When we come here, we must remember that the elementary education for grown-ups is organized and structured in both fashions: A presence and a distant one. Basic educational presence is offered in adult homes and prison educational units. The remoteness that would have to take more and more importance is given at the Basque Institute in the Faraway Education. As a result of this plan, the list of jobs in adult public schools must be adapted to new needs, adapting the education offer of all schools to the needs of the educational environment of each school. In addition, it is necessary to work together with local entities and other institutions to prevent the duplicate of the offer. At this point, I would like to highlight the network of adult education centres as a basis for a public and quality education service highly valued by citizens. There are currently 29 public adult education centres (28 under face-to-face education and one at a distance: IVED). Virtually all of these centers – all but three – also have what we call "circles", that is, classrooms in other places outside the reference center, to offer a service closer to the citizenry. In addition, they have enjoyed and enjoy great autonomy in management and organization, and staff who are well-equipped enough to be able to give almost individualized attention to the student. As I say, a quality public service. The Department of Education is working to ensure that this situation is maintained or even improved. The number of hours per group is not only not going to be reduced, but it is increasing from 10 to 12 hours per week in initial or grade I education, and from 3 to 6 hours per week in the case of Spanish or Basque for foreigners, which can even reach 8 hours per week. In addition, in the case of training projects for parents of pupils and pupils of public schools, training may be provided at the regular primary or secondary educational centres to which these families belong, thus making family reconciliation much easier. And we're also working with Lanbide. An organizational improvement work carried out from the consensus. The improvements made have been the result of the work of contrast and debate of the committee made up of representatives of the department and the EPA centres.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u109	Ms. Orriarte, "consent" but what is consensual? No consensus. Can't you see how the directors and teachers and students are in education? Then you say it'll get better. They don't share it that way. Don't you hear? Can't you see the situation? You said you're working to improve the adult education and fulfill the goals. But I don't know if you've heard it, I don't know if you've heard it, but it's very obvious: the directors, teachers and students of education are not satisfied with the work you're doing, and they're asking you to change the work, to negotiate with them, to agree with them, because they don't appreciate that what you're doing makes better, but they say it's wrong, it's wrong! So you don't answer, you don't answer! Also today you've given us a marketing session and we need answers here. Replies, arranged with the community, based on the real conversation. We want to know if you're gonna restructe that decree you're transcribed. Answer me! Answer me! We propose to stop that process right now and restructurate it. And the contributions that are considered, and the consequences of power. Restore. Or, for instance, there is a law for the education of grown-ups in Navarre. The laws of all life, and the education of professions, have made their own law, why the circle of education of grown-ups cannot have its own law? He would dress better with content and help to respond to future romances. But no, you don't. I don't know. Then you say that one must go deeper and deeper into the forms of life, but what you do is weaken. And instead of answering the changes which have been made in society, for example, that which is neither regulated nor regulated form, you consider and reject. Yes, yes, Mrs. Uriart. What else? Specify a map, OK, you must specify a map, all places; of course, teams must adapt to the future roots, but note the community's contributions; you must specify curriculum; once you're in the profession "encomitanda destion" which you've never seen before, do your measurements.... It's no use here, "what's philosophy," because if you don't really take it to practice, what you're showing is you don't care about. And what isn't normal is, it's very remarkable, if it was consistent, the adult's education professors, directors, and students wouldn't go out. And here people are working and people have been willing for a year or so for a year. We've been working in power, and we're working, and we've contributed so much in positiveness. There are proposals, agreed. If you don't have a solution, or if you don't have a measure, we have other things. And maybe you don't agree with some of us, and maybe we don't agree with others, but we'll have to find means, because the paper that can fill the areas of education is very important looking at the inclusium, looking at the impeccable, looking at the profession. If we agree, then why did you cause anger? It's not understandable. Because if you'd agree, and if there weren't any problems, we wouldn't be here. I am disappointed to go out to this door and say: 'Congratulations, Mrs. Uriart, congratulations! You did great! "I don't know. I'm disappointed. I'll see if next time I come out here and ask you a question because you've got the contributions of adults in education. You are in time, because this decree is still rising; you are in time to consider the consequences of power, and you are in time to consider the interests of the field, the teachers, the students, the contributions of all. It's up to you. You'll have to choose.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u111	Mrs. Ubera, as I have pointed out in the first round, and as a scheme, I must say that the restruction in the education of grown-ups has been three axes: The establishment of curriculum according to the curriculum of basic education, the establishment of the EPA, considering the new demands and priorities of our society, and the prescribed and not regulated education offer, and the reorganization of their management. As regards the updating of the curriculum, in accordance with the provisions of the current basic education curriculum. As I have already indicated, in order to comply with the fourth additional provision of Decree 236/2015, the department is working on a new decree establishing the curriculum of basic education for adults and being established in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. This draft has been contrasted and participated by EPA members. Both during the design of the draft of the new decree and for the regularization of the organization of the course, two types of initiatives have been carried out. Meetings with the directorates of all adult education centres in which they have been explained and the changes proposed in the opening decisions and in the first draft of the decree on 17 January 2019 have been contrasted. Meetings of a specific team that has facilitated decision-making and discussion of the major issues related to the new decree –14 February, 14 March, 14 April and, last, 24 May. The task force has been composed of the heads of six centres, two inspectors, two departmental technicians and the Director of Centres and Planning. This, if it's not about finding deals, you'll tell me. To establish the purpose of the EPA, considering the new demands and privileges of our society. As to this point, priority criteria for organising the EPA education must specifically take the reality of people who have no qualifications, to get the title of the Mandatory Second Education, or to access education cycles, in order to prepare tests for 25 years or over 45 years, and pass to new education stages and work worlds. EPA, on the other hand, for elderly people Most of the members have been taken up with etherretics, which have been completed in the last years by the eulogy and extra aid. In the case of the most regular and regular disciplines, it must be remembered that those who give the sense to the former are only a supplement, without forgetting the particular end of the EPA. At this moment, the arrival of unequivocally immigrants, and the lack of quantitation from those who did not complete their elementary studies, must be one of the preference to the barrier of society. Thirdly, with regard to the reorganization of the regulated and non-regulated training offer and its management, responsible and efficient management, based on the competences and benchmarks for other types of teaching and the criteria for prioritization, requires the necessary reorganization and regularization of the regulated and non-regulated training offer of adult education centres. Look, Mrs Ubera, a lot has been said about the EPA lately, and in a possibly interested way has been misinformed, and I will try to summarize a little what has been said, some of the criticisms that have been conveyed. Some critics point out that they will only have two years to pass each course. That's not true. By how the courses are configured, the student chooses which content to register to adapt the pace to their needs. Of course, anyone who has an interest in obtaining the EPA title is not going to have any problems over the years. Another issue that is constantly mentioned: hours of non-regulated teaching are to be limited to 5% of the hours given. That's not true, and this doesn't change. Both today and from now on, the non-regulated teachings will account for around 22% of the hours given, and within those non-regulated classes, what we have done has been to differentiate the non-regulated priorities from the rest of the regulated ones. The latter will account for 5% of the total hours, but the sum of the non-regulated lessons will be around 22%, just like so far. And to mention another matter, the reduction of classes, which is also not true. What should be stressed is that classes are made up of a minimum number of pupils, as is the case everywhere. If there is demand, there will be classes, but if the demand is fictitious, that class cannot continue, it is not viable. I think that is easy to understand: the first thing to offer a teaching is that there is real demand for it. To put an end to my speech, I wish to show once more the importance of the service which the public schools of education offer, and give proper answers to the needs which society requires for new examples and precepts. And that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, you know, that together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos made to the chairman of the Educational System of the Basque Education." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u113	Yes, good morning. Thank you. Madam Counsellor, how do you appreciate the growing phenomenon of school segregation?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u114	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u115	Mahaiburu's walking. Mr Martínnez, as has been already expressed in this Chamber, is a complex phenomenon. It shows itself in many ways and answers several factors: the sourbic structure of areas, the geographical position of schools, the distribution of the population in a township, or the social and social characteristics of the population, their cultural models, and so forth. Although we know well that it's a challenge beyond the educational police, the Board of Education has decided long ago to reach that challenge. Thus, in 2016-20, we have chosen to give attention to the Students, who introduced themselves not only on the Plan II, but on the Exodus, and to strengthen equality in education, and, in particular, to raise more equilibrium and cohesion between the schools of the school system, in this course of learning, we have sought to advance further. Last November 5, 2018, the Diagnostic Study on the Enrolment of Students of Foreign Origin was presented
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Martinezlin, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u117	Thank you. Mrs. Greart, as you have said, is not the new theme. You may think I'm a little heavy, but the point is, we must see a reality in our people, and see its size. Politics, we believe, are not the ones that can reach the size of the problem. You have given some reasons, which explain segregation, but there are others: That the differences of Eukadin have increased, that poverty has increased, and that the purchase power has been lowered, that there have also been raised by the people from the other countries of the state and foreign countries, so that the multiplicity in the school has increased. And our groups and in general, I should say, we think that the whole of educational immunities are making us rich, and they think that at the same time we know that we must govern this multiplicity. The data's in there. In the education system there is an evident balance between the public and the compacts. So that to make multiplicity strong, we need effective measures, resources, and human resources, and not to stabilize two-speed systems in time. We have examples in Araba, in Great Bilbao, but also great imbalances in Gipuzkoa. There is an average between the public network and the concerted network of 6% difference between pupils of origin outside the Basque Autonomous Community, but we also have areas where the difference is 32 points between one network and the other. We have the case of Ordizia – which was the last question I asked her – where, far from fixing the problem, we believe that the measures that her department has put in place have increased the gap. There have been citizens' initiatives which have been rejected in this Parliament; there are initiatives which the various centres are setting up with scarce resources and which cannot achieve the results that would be expected. Administration, by correcting the exact measures of planning, and the use of public resources, must make politics to ensure equity, life, inculition, and erosion. A few days ago, moreover, a series of collectives from the Basque public school, from management groups, trade unions proposed a series of measures to him. Hain zuzen ere: set up in each territory a planning table consisting of agents of the educational system that avoids situations of segregation. On the other hand, it's the privilege of the public schools and the planning of the schools under the treaty, of fulfilling cares and social functions. Another would be that places where there has been a decrease in the birth rate are prioritized in public centres. Fourthly, an education planning that will lead them to balance in countries which are a remarkable state of segregation. Eta, azkenik, a recognition of the Basque public school and that necessary measures are taken to help better manage diversity and coexistence. Does your department, in this sense, intend to respond to these demands of a large sector of the educational community, to put in place measures that will really solve this problem? We must make an effective bet that the machine of public schools, which is the heart of public society, assures us of the beating of our whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u118	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u119	Mr Martínnez, yes, if there are data, we introduced them in November, and I think it's a deep analysis, and that's the measures we've proposed. There is no doubt that a balanced education is a challenge to our education system. We understand that an excess of education can be conditioned by the population of the schools, and that the educational area of the students at the highest disadvantages, can render the community more difficult for our social co-existence, and that the production of differences may cause the propagation of the social existence of the community to be due to their origin or social condition. So within a careful scheme of school posts, it must be considered, without doubt, that in all schools there must be free squares, as established in the 21/2009 Decree, within the reproach of different schools that are supported by public funds, to instruct scholars who are to be taught from time to time in the education system. But you have asked me about school segregation, and I must reiterate to you that it is not a simple subject. In any case, the differences that we have found in the dynamics of schooling from one territory to another again show that the interventions that are made from the perspective of planning and educational action have necessarily to take into account the social and school reality of each municipality, and this will require greater coordination with the local institutions. We have launched a pilot collaboration experience between the department and several municipalities to establish information and guidance points, which is one of the elements that all studies indicate as determinant. Also, in March we approved, together with the mayor of the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, a protocol of intentions in favor of coexistence and equity in that city. We are working in a similar framework with other consistories of our territory. Only from co-responsibility will we be able to respond effectively to this challenge. Education must be accompanied by policies and initiatives of a more global, cross-sectoral nature, including actions in the fields of social protection, youth, employment, leisure and culture, urban planning, housing, language policy, among others. As I said, we are implementing new measures. Some are already bearing fruit this year, others are working for the next course and others will be planning. As we know, this is not solved overnight, and we are on a long-distance path in which we all have to work together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Ask the question, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, a member of the Podemos legalist to the head of the Board of Education, the financier of the colleges under the treaty." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u121	Good morning, Mrs. Uriart. They say that irregularity has been in the funding of legal professions. These simpleities have appeared in communication, they have been accused of unions, and they have been irregular with public money. So, my question is what you've been up to now to face and correct these irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u122	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u123	Legebiltzar presidente andrea. Mr. Becerra, in answer to your question, I must state that the financery of the colleges under trade is adapted to the regulative regulation established, as well as to the application of the treaty as to the means of subsidy, as is well known, since the treaty is not the only formula for giving funds to schools. In fact, projects and activities can be financed by calling. The private schools, therefore, which give instruction in the professions, who have signed education, receive partial finances from their own peculiar characters, and agree with that established by the 293/87 Decree of September the 8th of September, which admits of the rule of education. Besides, they can even acquire financial aid by subconscious calls, that is, aid from the Board of Education, and the help of other departments or institutions, according to their regulators published in official journals. We have an example for equipment, professional training, training, etc. With regard to funding through the concert scheme, I would like to inform you that the financial funding modules are approved annually under the budget law for each financial year. These modules are calculated per school unit in analogy with the costs of public education, taking into account the components of staff costs, operating costs and replacement of actual investments. The department has acted and acts with absolute respect to the current regulations, complying, as it cannot otherwise be, with the principle of legality. More than ten meetings and contacts have been held by the various competent directorates of the Department of Education with the ELA union, since in February 2017 information was requested regarding the content and calculation of the funding modules of the concertation of the training cycles, as well as information regarding the DAEs, timetables. In order to know the state of play regarding the application and use of certain resources in private concerted centres offering training courses, the department has carried out a first analysis that has been shared with the trade union organization that you quote. On the date of 13 May this month, this trade union organization has filed a complaint that is being examined by the department, and a reply will be given.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u125	Well, it is clear that the money from concerts finances only the agreed centers, but it is also true that the money that is public, which comes from the Department of Education, somehow it is up to the Department of Education to analyze and study to what extent it is spent properly or not. I have not referred to any union, because there is not only one issue, there is one that is denounced by the ELA union three years ago, which is the mismanagement, or possible mismanagement, of money dedicated to hours of management and monitoring of practices in companies and hours for the second teacher during the practice. There is a report from your own department that comes to determine that it could have been up to 3 and a half million euros a year that could have been spent badly, which means that in the three years that we have been doing, of course, more than 10 million euros. My question is, if the Education Department itself, through the Education Inspectorate, has detected that possible fraud bag, have they done anything to recover that money? Have they sanctioned the centers that have spent that money badly or have not spent it? Have you really calculated the amount actually defrauded? Have you carried out inspections to verify that this has been corrected? Eta zein izan da edo zein izango da ELA syndikatuari emango diozuen stantzuna, haiek jarritako salaketari? Public money has to be spent with rigour and transparency and, as I said, on the one hand there is the money for concerts, but, on the other hand, we also have another outstanding issue, which has also appeared in the media, which is the money coming from the TKgune innovation programme of the Lehendakaritza, which also manages its department. It is money to encourage cooperation between vocational training centres and SMEs which, as I say, runs the Vice-Advisory Office for Vocational Training. By means of this program, the teachers of the center are engaged in offering technological services and financing them through this program; and the more they visit, the more money the schools get, the more money they get, the more their projects are completed, the more they gain for the centers of income. So, my question on this second question of the TKgune innovation programme's money would also be to know how your department is working to ensure a balance between meeting the educational objectives of the concerted centres and working together with SMEs. Because seeking, through this programme, an over-financing of educational establishments that can go to the detriment of the educational function is, of course, not a good way, either, to manage public money. Ultimately, what underlies here is how concerted education is financed. You know, you know the critical position of our group. We knew it was anything but transparent, and what we'd like to know is whether or not the department's control is at least rigorous and secure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u126	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u127	Becerra jauna, I will begin by clarifying several issues that you have cited that are not true. Firstly, it has mixed two different subjects, both of which relate to vocational training, but which are not what we are talking about today. The ELA union, you quote it in your justification. And, of course, the analysis carried out has not detected any fraud or talked about quantities. I don't know where you come from... We have not said at all that there is fraud or that it has been quantified. I mean, I don't know where you get that statement. As I said on my first shift, the division has been treated with complete respect of the established regulations. Among the rest, from the given analysis, the department is working on the following lines: To clear and determine the functions, to receive the meaning of this information, to combine the names, and to examine, as far as the division of groups is concerned, the rule of the public centres, the choice of accepting another rule. These lines of work have been shared with some employers with the commitment to take corrective measures that are considered appropriate to improve aspects in the management of workplace training and safety. All this information, all these steps are known to the agents involved. In addition, the Department is working on the proposal for the start-up resolution for concerted centres for the implementation and implementation of existing legislation; on the need to update the economic modules for financing training cycles with a view to the preparatory tasks of the preliminary draft budget law for 2020; and on monitoring the extent to which corrective measures are being implemented as deemed necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 18th point on the subject, "Interregation of the Interition, by the law of the Eugulians of the Mario Barroja Popula, made to the chief physician of the Medical Department, in regard to the talents of Eucadicus' public health for investing in technology." Neighborhood Sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u129	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Let's see, it's been traditional, usual, donations to charitable institutions, residences, hospitals... forever. And there have been benefactors. In the same way that there have been patrons in art, there have been benefactors in other areas of assistance, mainly to people, the disadvantaged and the sick. And in that sense, we have seen many examples throughout the history of these attitudes. And Basque public health has recently benefited from generous contributions made by the Amancio Ortega Foundation, and that is why thousands of people in this country have been able to improve their health expectations. However, the arguments made by some political leader in recent weeks have been very striking, criticizing these donations and throwing and even insulting those who made them. Nor can it be said, and it has already been seen, that these disqualifications have been perfectly answered, criticized by the vast majority of people, but above all they have been criticized and answered, and very well, by people who have benefited from the medical processes that they have been able to receive, thanks to these donations, medical processes of these health infrastructures, that they have been able to receive, or that they have been able to receive them before or that they have been able to receive them in better conditions. There have also been many testimonies of gratitude and appreciation of what has been donated by health professionals, scientific medical societies – we have to see the Spanish Society of Oncology, Hematology, recently in a joint statement – professional colleges and their councils on these issues, patient associations, trade unions – including doctors and nurses – assessing this circumstance, and the health authorities of the vast majority of the autonomous communities benefiting from these donations. In addition, the way in which donations have been made – and that is a very important element – has been entirely and essentially collaborative. It has not depended on the foundation, it has not depended on the donor what is donated, but it has been negotiated, it has been discussed with the health authorities of the whole of the Spanish health systems – in this case with Osakidetza, with the Department of Health. It has depended on their needs. In this regard, in addition to a donation of health infrastructure, it has also been done in this collaborative and understanding nature in relation to the donation. There have even been some health advisors, such as Andalusian, who have asked the Amancio Ortega Foundation to consider Andalusia a "preferential area". That is to say, some have already installed it even in their medium-term political assessment, in relation to needs, and they have sent him a letter to that effect. Well, we do not come to that, of course, by asking the counsellor for other issues and other assessments in relation to what has happened and in relation to what can continue to happen and to what measures we can continue to benefit from and the analysis made by the Basque Government. In addition, it has been said that the Amancio Ortega Foundation will maintain its donation policy. That's good news, that's good news, because, after the disqualifications and insults, the answer has been "because I will continue to maintain this policy of donations, these donations that benefit society, the men and women of this country, the sick, the patients, in general to society intimately." And so the foundation has been pronounced. In addition, we must remember that this donor foundation of health technology, in this case, because its main actions have also been in education. That is, not only in this health technology, but the main activities that the foundation has developed have been in the educational area, with thousands of scholarships to students to study elsewhere, its specialties, in the United States, in Canada, in the United Kingdom, educational innovation, training, even agricultural, not to mention donations to entities such as Caritas or food banks, millionaire donations that it has also shared with health donations in this case. Therefore, seeing what has happened these days and in this election campaign, I think it is a good time now for reflection and to continue talking and, given that the department is beneficiary of these donations and in view of the electoral disqualifications that have been attended, we would like to know that assessment of the department and the lady advisor on this type of donations and know her willingness to continue collaborating with the Amancio Ortega Foundation or other private donors. There is no doubt that there will also be them. Something like that can tell us the adviser in relation to these kinds of donations and these kinds of generous and altruistic attitudes that the Basques can benefit from. Finally, we believe, the People's Group, the People's Party believes that the donations of the Amancio Ortega Foundation have been and are very beneficial for the health of the Basques and for the improvement, the improvement of our health system, and we reject, we reject, as has the vast majority of the health community, the disqualifications and insults cast by politicians in campaign towards whom, in addition to creating thousands of jobs, they devote their money to education, health, social services, all of them public. That attitude, generally speaking, deserves tribute, not insults. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u131	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. Barrio, good noon to all. I would like to begin, as Mr Barrio himself pointed out, by pointing out that in Euskadi we have a long tradition of testamentary legacies and donations to the health system. In fact, these donations covered for a period of time a very important part of the total economic needs for the maintenance of the different health organizations. Without going further, the University Hospital of Basurto – a hospital I know well – is a clear example: the historical importance of the legacy and donations in the hospital of Basurto is of such magnitude that even its construction was made thanks to donations from benefactors living in Bizkaia and overseas. These varied in the type of property (real estates, noble titles or cash): from a building in Sagua la Grande (Cuba), which Basurto received as a legacy in the late 1950s, to a chacra in Chile or the legacy, made by a Bilbao, of building number 13 of Calle Colón de Larreategi in Bilbao, which shared the hospital at 50% with the Santa Casa de Misericordia in Bilbao. Or, more recently, the legacy of another Bilbaon woman, of more than 200 million of the former pesetas, which resulted in the installation of the Macua pavilion's operating theatres. Today, the situation has changed significantly, but there are still people who, wishing to show their gratitude to the Basque public health system and its professionals, continue to donate goods and economic quantities to Osakidetza. By setting an example, in recent years, the Vizcay hospitals have received almost a million euros from these donations and legacies, donations that have materialized in purchases, investments, for the benefit of all people. In this same vein, from the Department of Health and Osakidetza, we have always been grateful for the opportunity he provided for the collaboration agreement signed on 24 April 2017 by the Basque Government and the Amancio Ortega Foundation here in Vitoria-Gasteiz. An agreement in which we both reaffirm the commitment to a quality public health service for all people. The Amancio Ortega Foundation decided to donate €14.7 million to the Basque Health Service for the purchase of high-tech equipment for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, based on the needs that Osakidetza presented to it. This significant sum has enabled Osakidetza over the past two years to renew, in a shorter time than budgeted, five linear accelerators for radiation therapy and one mammograph, all of them of the latest generation, to improve the health and quality of life outcomes of people suffering from cancer in Euskadi. It should be said that, since the signing of this collaboration agreement, linear accelerators are being renewed in the university hospitals of Cruces, Basurto, Txagorritxu and Donostia. And I have already said: we are grateful for the donation received. In fact, next June the new Cruces accelerator will be in operation, and by the end of the year it will be Txagorritxu, which will be the first linear accelerator with features of the latest generation installed in the state. It's one of the priority of our 20th Medical Plan to face cancer. Today, almost one of three deaths is due to cancer between us. To face that, we need first-class professionals, even the most advanced technology. The Basque Health Plan 2013-2020 reflects the commitments made by the Basque Government to Basque society to improve their health, increase their quality of life and reduce inequalities. Precisely this same week, the steering committee of the Health Plan met, with the lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu at the head, to take stock of the work carried out in 2018, and we can say that nine out of 10 actions or objectives foreseen in the plan have already been initiated or implemented. Within the framework of the action of this Health Plan, one of the focuses is placed on the care of people with cancer because today it is the first cause of death: in Euskadi, 30.8% of the annual deaths are due to this disease. Although in recent decades the implementation of cancer screening programmes, as well as the development of new diagnostic and treatment techniques, have significantly increased the survival rates and quality of life of people with cancer processes, their high prevalence, as well as the increase in the complexity of their diagnosis and therapy, make cancer an indisputable priority for the Department of Health, Osakidetza and the Basque Government as a whole. Hence the importance of this collaboration agreement with the Amancio Ortega Foundation, signed in 2017, which is allowing us to improve diagnostic and therapeutic resources for people with these processes in Euskadi. I will add that the Basque public health system currently has 10 linear accelerators for oncology care and, thanks to the agreement signed with the Amancio Ortega Foundation, Osakidetza is being able to replace these accelerators and invest the items that would have been necessary for this purpose in other health infrastructures. Almost 60% of people with cancer Euskadin get radio therapy, thanks to the better diagnostics and treatments, it gets to be cured more and more sick. Thus more than half of the patients survive after diagnosed cancer and five years of age, 52% of the men and nearly 60% of the women. As you share with me, Mr Barrio, on the basis of the priority that we have set ourselves to tackle and attack with all resources the first cause of death in Euskadi, from the Basque Government we value positively the partnership agreement that we have signed and we are open to analysing and exploring all those paths that we consider can benefit all people living in Euskadi. We respect the right of each person to think what he or she wants in this regard, but it must be said that we are not faced with any exceptional or unusual cases. At the beginning of my speech I referred to the long tradition of testamentary legacies and donations to the health system that we have lived in Euskadi, but today we also continue to have daily examples of calls from various foundations for research grants, grants for innovation; we recently signed an agreement with BBK to further enhance research at the Biocruces Bizkaia Institute; the Kutxa has for years supported and will continue to support onkologikoa de Donostia. And in societies as advanced as Swedish, there are similar cases. Ikea, for example, is the main benefactor of the Karolinska Research Institute. So, they've always been receiving economic aids in medical systems, and today it's also an ordinary situation in the Euscated and the world. Membership and health department are ready to examine every situation and every opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u133	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, counselor, for your explanations. The truth is that they have been interesting, because there has been some data in relation to other donors and with amounts that are relevant, and that lead us to share the fact that this effort of benefactors, donors, generous or altruistic people, or that they decide to give it to health in this case, for it is there, and it is an effort that has been traditional and usual, but that is still being done, and that we all benefit from. And also, most importantly of all, it is clear in the explanations and therefore what comes from the question in relation to donations. That is, it is a support: we have ten accelerators, five are part of the donation in relation to needs. It is that the quantity is impressive, in relation to the technology that we have at our disposal. That is, it is essential support, essential, very important, to our oncological plan, to the oncological plan that we have adopted, and that in this regard has been implemented, and of course to the health plan, and to the achievement of its objectives. He has well explained to us the importance, of course, of that decision. In this regard, this donation will ensure that the objectives of our health plan and the objectives of our cancer plan are met. That is, thousands of beneficiaries who would not normally be so. That is, we must realize the importance and what it has meant for our health. That is why we have brought this debate here. And we also want Basque society to be grateful, and we will bring a motion. We will bring a motion to speak among the groups on those issues, to be grateful, to value what we have and to value what we receive in that regard. That is to say, we want to know the views of the rest of the parliamentary groups and, of course, we want to thank publicly and as a people the donations, and to urge that, as far as possible, such collaborations can continue in time, and that the Basque Government should do so in that way. You can't criticize things for criticizing, you can't insult for insulting. You can't insult anyone who makes your health goals come true, your cancer goals, your cancer plan, come true, come true. Insulting, criticizing those skills, of course, is a regrettable issue, and we will discuss that in a forthcoming plenary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u134	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u135	Partners. Mr. Barrio, you mentioned investments and equipment, but I want to be able to tell people too. On the one hand, a professional member of the profession, his commitment, as well as the basis of public service, and on the other, I want to remind myself of every person suffering cancer, him, his family, and his friends. I would like to use this appearance in the House to say loud and clear that in the fight against cancer, or against any other disease, technology is fundamental, but it is not everything. And I am referring to the importance of the people and professionals of the organization. The renewal of technological equipment and the capacity of professionals is undoubtedly a good combination to try to best respond to the demands of society. Hence the importance of coordination between material and professional resources, collaboration between different institutions to further progress, etc. In the case of the Basque health system, we have for years been the autonomous community that spends the most money on health and invests per capita, 1,730 euros at the moment. This year 2019, we are managing a budget of 3.8 billion euros, and despite making up a third of the entire budget of the Basque Government, we all know that it is a budget that has limits, 3.8 billion, that must be respected and managed properly. What do the donations, the agreements, the economic legacies that we receive allow us to do? In general, they allow us to exchange what we do with them: investments, which are already planned, in a faster way, we can allocate to items we had prepared, to other needs. What I want to say with this is that we have a budget, needs in the system, it is true, and we use every contribution, everything that is donated, I say, by Fundación Amancio Ortega and other foundations, for care aspects, diagnostics, therapeutics, research, training or innovation. We believe in each other's work in the neighborhood, and the contributions we get will always be to strengthen and improve our public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "About the workers' systems." Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u137	Thank you. Good afternoon. The year 2018 was not good at all, and when it comes to the work-makers that had the effect of death, I should say it is a pity. According to the data from Osalan, 37 of the labor stripers, though more according to other accounts. In February, in the presentation of the balance of 2018 work strippers, the vicerean department Jon Azkue Lane and Social Security said that data is bad. I'd say more: these facts are not acceptable. And this year it doesn't look like a better year: According to the data of Osalan, the laborists have already caused the death of 15 workers. Last week, four of them worked. Four people who don't go out to work and go home: While he was working in the woods, a tree had fallen on him, and he was telling him that the dead man had fallen from a crane, who had been killed by two trucks and Loiun, who had been working in a van. Our sympathies and solidarity with their relatives and friends. I asked you about the measurements of November 2018 to take before the disturbing developments of labor strippers, your reference element for 2015-20 times the security and health strategy. Do you really think that the measures you've taken in order to reduce the labor stripers have been effective?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u138	Thank you, Madam Mount. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. I fully agree with you, Mrs Otamendi, on the concern for all accidents at work. And I want to begin this intervention by showing my solidarity with the relatives and relatives of those who died in an accident at work. All accidents at work are a failure of society, but when the outcome is the death of a person, emotions flourish, and statistics and strategies remain in the background. But this is only a first reaction, to be immediately aware that what is left to us is to continue working to ensure that they do not happen again. On several occasions we have talked about this problem, and today, as on other occasions, I have to reiterate to you that the way is to continue using the resources we have, our Basque Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (Osalan) and the Labour Inspectorate. Each time an accident occurs, the first action is the detailed investigation of each of them, as we will obtain the necessary data to lay the groundwork for the circumstances that have caused an accident not to occur again. To clarify what has happened is the first work to be done by the Labour Inspectorate and Osalan. To this end, Osalan technicians and technicians and labour inspectors are immediately identified at the place where a fatal accident has occurred. Another measure that we apply with absolute precision is never to hide the data of sinisterity, they have had the outcome that they have had. Some may feel more or less serious, but they are all improveable. Transparency is another element of prevention of occupational health that helps to raise the awareness of society as a whole so that workers, employers and citizens at no time can justify that sinestrality is inherent in work. Accidents can be avoided, and we cannot consider them as a factor that goes together with production, that goes together with work. I am aware that every day we have to improve the means we have, increase our material resources, and that is why we have increased the number of prevention technicians in this legislature, which we will complete in two months with two more. Five technicians who will undoubtedly help to give more coverage to prevention. The same can be said of the Labour Inspectorate, which I am committed to strengthening and which has never had as many inspectors and sub-inspectors as it does today – and we have created six places of sub-inspectors who will be covered as soon as possible. These are, Mrs Otamendi, some of the measures that we have implemented and that are helping to improve the situation. I admit there's a long way to go, but I'm convinced we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u140	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u141	Mrs. San José, you haven't answered my question, but since it's being routine, I'm not surprised. The solution is not to keep doing what you're doing, and you know, because there's no obvious change. And you said, "You will strengthen the vision and strengthen the vision." I will not deny that it is necessary, but we must do much more than that much more. The real public policies must be established, the policy of security, and the real policy of security must be established in order to turn this situation around. Look, I'll give you a little example. Last week, Barakaldo, at the construction work, there's a seven-eight-story flat here and a working worker working under it. The answer to Osalan and Labour, do you know what it was? There was no danger, no danger, and nothing went by, all the measures of security were fulfilled. Do you think this works for security measures? If so, the law isn't right, the law must change. There is something to be done in order to be more strict, and it is not enough to say that corporations ought to perform strict measures. I'm sure companies are going to do their measurements sharp, but I'm sure it's time for the government to fill up those measurements. But for once, and Osalan can't say there's nothing going on or there's no danger in such a situation. That's not acceptable. And I'd like to say more, but I don't have the time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u142	Thank you, My Lady Mount. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u143	Well, Mrs Otamendi, I don't have much time for further action either, but I will tell you that, apart from what I have said to you, another is the training of prevention delegates from Osalan, the involvement of all social partners together with the government. In this regard, a specific working group on occupational safety and health has been established within the Social Dialogue Bureau. It is necessary to activate collective bargaining and to raise prevention issues as paramount, to ensure that entrepreneurs aware of their responsibilities comply with the security measures provided for in the mandatory prevention plans in each of the companies, which assume that prevention of occupational risks must be integrated into their overall management system as a fundamental tool for fulfilling their legal obligation to protect workers from potential risks in the working environment. I insist, collaboration of all the parties involved, strict compliance with the law, to continue with the reduction of the incidence and disaster rate, which in 26 years of Osalan's existence has been reduced to half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-31.u144	Thank you, Mrs. San José. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-one.
