ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. One theme: "A 2018-year-old copy of the interrogation, 208 of the Chamber Regment. the article goes on." For the first time, the interrogator must present a summary of the report. Mr. Arrid, Mr. Lezerta, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u1	Good morning, Mr. President of the Parliament. Comrades, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, gentlemen, gentlemen of the Government, good morning. As a year ago, I stand before you, and it is my honor to me to present myself to this whole of the Basque Act, the contents of my former report of 2018, briefly, with my intention to explain it to you. I am delighted to present myself before the representatives of the Basque People, because the intermediary is, after all, only the higher and most important member of the legislature. On the 3rd of June last night I even stood before the Human Rights and the Committee of Equality to make this report known. During this apparition, I made a quantum analysis of the smokes that the people had made to the intermediary, and briefly explained the activities of this organization. Therefore, in front of the whole Union, I must not exactly describe all the activities of the intermediary, of our 28th district, and of the Office of Children and Nerves. I shall then present myself only in several parts of the opinion which this institution has of the public administration of eussa and political affairs. In any case, before we reach the substance of my performance directly, I would like to mention at least the most significant general data that the Arctic work last year was to be placed in the context. In the year 2018, they have violated the marks of serving the people, and of attending the administration. The total is 14,500! There were more to attend to the public and to the activities which relate to the administration than to the 9,000. Besides, we filed 61 filed for the treatments and developments, and they were answered by 5,000 consulters asking for information and oriental treatments, 78 meetings with social institutions, and 86 meetings with different administrations. On the whole, the activity of the intermediary last year has been 8% in comparison with the year before, considering this 2017. that 22% of the year had gone up in comparison with the year before. And in 2016, 23% went up in comparison with the year 2015. I mean, more than 50% has increased the activity of the intermediary for the past three years. The administrative cause of complaint has been corrected and altered in 84% of cases. Most of the time, no formal recommendations had to be made to accept the proposal of the interrogation by the authorities. This data has been the highest of the year examined and shows clearly that the intervention of the intermediary is actually effective. The Basque Administration generally accept the recommendations and recommendations of the Arlias, which, no doubt, is an indispensable position, which gives a perfect sense to the work of this institution. However, the situation I have just described, being as positive as it is, is far from as idyllic as I intend to explain to you below. In fact, remind you that Article 11 of Law 3/1985, which creates and regulates the Ararteko institution, provides for the possibility of "directing recommendations or recalling the legal duties to the competent bodies, officials or their superiors in order to seek to correct illegal or unjust acts or to improve the services of the Administration". Therefore, if in examining complaints we come to the conclusion that administrative action has not been correct, we make a recommendation, sometimes a suggestion, to the administration concerned, asking it to modify its action. Unfortunately, the implementation of the recommendations and suggestions issued has not been as satisfactory in 2018 as we would have liked. Of the 94 recommendations issued in that year, as well as of the 28 outstanding in the previous year, only 26 were accepted, 60 were not accepted and 36 were pending a final decision on the date of submission of the report. As a singularity, it should be remembered that, as has already been customary in recent years, the recommendations issued in the area of social inclusion this year 2018 reached a percentage that exceeds 44% of the total of those issued, due, as always, to the high number of files processed in all the economic benefits derived from the Income Guarantee Act. Many of these unaccepted recommendations address the same issue, on which the Ararteko institution maintains a different approach than that of the administration concerned. I would also like to stress the importance that this institution attaches to the need to properly motivate the resolutions it directs to public administrations, in particular when what is requested is a modification of the decision by changing certain intervention criteria. The Ararteko has always maintained that the lack of coercive capacity entails the need to develop greater dialectical efforts, to deepen our analysis, to counter legal discrepancies and to reiterate our arguments when we observe reluctance to comply with Ararteko's recommendations and reminders. These are the rules of the game accepted by everyone. However, one issue is that the administration does not share the legal interpretation of the recommendations and suggestions made by Ararteko and that it argues what its reasons for discrepancy are and another is that the administration concerned does not even answer whether or not it accepts the recommendation or suggestion. In 2018, 21 recommendations were rejected due to a lack of reply, almost 20% of the recommendations followed up. I must also echo those occasions on which the requested administration, in communicating its non-acceptance to Ararteko, makes no assessment or makes no arguments that support this refusal. Although the number is not striking, as I say, I cannot hide from you that I am concerned about that reality. And I must insist once again that these kinds of actions and situations affect the exercise of the functions that have been entrusted to Ararteko as the institution of this Parliament. In addition, these behaviours show an inconsiderate attitude towards those citizens who, using one of the mechanisms of which the rule of law has been established in Euskadi to solve the problems, have come to our institution asking for protection for their rights and compliance with the legal order. Well, that said, as I have already said in Basque, I think it would be preferable to refer even briefly to some of the most significant issues that have affected the enjoyment of citizens' rights throughout 2018. I shall refer to some of the issues which I consider to be of particular relevance. Problems affecting children and adolescents, the equality and integrity of women, the social inclusion of disadvantaged persons, the reflections contained in the Ararteko report on the energy transition. Finally, I should like to mention the initiatives deployed by this institution at European and international level. The number of complaints experiences where the presence is expressly mentioned or where children and adolescents are involved reached 729 in 2018, accounting for 28% of all cases. More than 41 per cent is related to the material conditions that allow boys and girls an adequate standard of living, specifically issues related to the income and housing guarantee system. Another 38 % refers to problems in the education system and the remaining 21 % is distributed, in percentages below 5 %, among social services, family support policies, health system, actions by the services of the Administration of Justice, school sport and other issues. This year I'd like to insist on the activities the Child and Nerape Bureau has started on their own. Thus he has paid visits to various departmental services and programmes, such as social services for children who are helpless, young legal, educational or family services. The meeting has shared places of reflection and discussion with social institutions, academic institutions, and institutions, to examine the following topics: the supreme interest of children, the right to be heard, the mental health of children and young, the sexual abuse and the children without family, for example. But it would be inappropriate or unfair to talk about the activity of that office without mentioning the Neraben Council. In the course of this council, 2018. This institution has also been affected in the course of the year, in order to protect the rights of children from the European networks, and in order to determine the affairs to be discussed, both in the controversies and in the controversies themselves. This division has extended beyond the limits of our countrymen. I'll go back to this point later. The course organized by Ararteko, "Child sexual abuse: a complex reality that challenges society as a whole", which took place last year as part of the summer courses of the University of the Basque Country, is also worthy of special mention. The theme aroused an extraordinary interest, as was credited by the record of attendees. According to the data available to us, it was the course in which more people participated and resulted in conclusions in terms of future work lines and Ararteko's commitment to continue to promote improvements in intervention in this area. A clear demonstration of this commitment is the project addressed by the institution, which I am honoured to be the holder of, during 2019, a protocol for interdisciplinary and inter-institutional action in cases of child sexual abuse in Euskadi, in which we are committed and whose technical proposal is already the subject of a very advanced consensus, as it constitutes a repeated demand from the key actors involved in Euskadi, as is evident every day. Turning now to the issue of women's equality and integrity, it must be recognized that undeniable progress has been made in the last few years in the Basque Country, but unequal power structures persist, gender-based violence continues to persist, women's participation in political processes and decision-making is still insufficient and women's precarious work and the feminization of poverty remain realities in our society. I will discuss only two of these important challenges that the Basque political agenda should, in our view, address as a matter of priority: violence against women and the challenge of achieving economic equality between men and women. It is urgent to develop the State Pact and to establish a new framework in Euskadi to prevent and advance the elimination of macho violence. According to data from Emakunde, in 2018 more than 4,000 –4,244 women victims of violence were counted in Euskadi. That is, an average of one complaint a day. The trend this year does not exactly inspire optimism. In Euskadi last year we had the painful balance sheet of two women killed by their partners or ex-partners. Maria José, 43 years old, was murdered in Vitoria-Gasteiz by her ex-partner. This woman had a minor daughter and child. Florentina, 69 years old, ex-sister of the aggressor and mother of Maria José, was also murdered that day. Subsequently, on 25 September, Maguette, 25, was murdered in Bilbao by her husband. Maguette lived in Bilbao and was the mother of two daughters under five years of age. Today, I want to dedicate this time of which I have to dedicate a small memory to these known victims and so many others unknown, highlighting, yes, the firmness that Basque society demonstrates every day against male-based violence and sexual assault. The state pact agreed by broad political consensus in 2017 has not achieved the expected development in 2018, yet many of the planned measures have not been implemented. Euskadi, in our view, must also make swift and decisive progress in this area, exercising all the powers that can improve the effectiveness of the fight against this social scourge, without prejudice to the progress of the proposed reforms at the state level. In this context, the announced renewal of the commitment of all the institutions signing the interinstitutional agreement currently in force in Euskadi is particularly necessary. This will help to adapt it to the new state framework, as well as to international and European requirements and provide a stronger basis for institutional coordination against gender-based violence. It is also urgent to make progress in Basque legislative reforms or initiatives aimed at ensuring and intensifying the care, support and protection of victims in the areas that fall within our public administrations, in particular in the areas of social services, education, health, police protection, and the coordination of these services with Justice. The culture of silenced violence must be brought to an end and sufficient support and protection must be given to women who decided to take the difficult step of denouncing their aggressor and embarking on the complex path of exiting violence. In this regard, it is necessary, in our view, to speed up the process of reforming Law 4/2005 of 18 February for the Equality of Women and Men, through the preliminary draft promoted by Emakunde. The urgency of this reform is based on the need to adapt our system for the protection of women victims of violence to the standards of the Istanbul Convention, in particular to the creation of a Basque system for the accreditation of victim status, which does not oblige women to go through criminal complaints and allows them, despite the lack of complaints, access to benefits that are necessary to obtain support and to achieve their effective protection. I would also like to refer to the inescapable fight against the economic gap and to the question of the lack of equity in the sharing of care work. Ararteko considers it essential to make progress in the measures envisaged in the Basque strategy against the wage gap, by articulating, as a matter of priority, the necessary measures of all kinds, including the regulatory and legal reforms specifically aimed at this end. To this end, it is essential that Basque administrations exercise leadership on the road to equal pay. It is also necessary to take into account the negative impact on the employment situation of women of the lack of equity in the distribution of care work, such as unpaid work, between men and women. It should be recalled that the gender equality expectations set by the United Nations in the 2030 Agenda – in objective five – within the framework of its sustainable development goals are geared towards addressing the contrast that the average time spent on care and unpaid domestic work exceeds more than three times that for women than for men. Also in this area, the Basque public authorities must focus on education, training and social awareness measures, as well as facilitating work and family reconciliation, and valuing care work as a work that benefits the community as a whole. I now turn to the extraordinary report on the energy transition presented by Ararteko in 2018 to this Parliament, entitled "The energy transition of the Void Country towards a sustainable model". This energy transition takes place at a time when international commitments and agreements, such as the Paris Agreement and the European Union's proposals for the creation of the Energy Union, mark a road map to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, establish energy savings and efficiency quotas and boost energy consumption from renewable sources. In this global context, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country must rise to the challenge of decarbonization of the society demanded by the international community. The report we have produced points out that the current Basque energy model, although efficient in terms of the use of energy resources, is still largely based on the use of fossil fuels. Another element to highlight is that greenhouse gas emissions, although they have had a downward trend in recent years, have seen a rebound since 2017 and are 6.2% below 1990 emissions. It should be noted that the transport sector continues to be one in which emissions continue to grow, which have doubled since 1990, especially those resulting from the use of vehicles. In any case, the final consumption of energy from renewable sources in the Basque Country remains low compared to the average of the State or the European Union. In Euskadi, the share of renewables – at the time of the report at least – in final energy consumption remained at 8% of the total. That share would amount to 13,3 % if the proportion of electricity of renewable origin that Euskadi imports from other territories is included in that calculation. In these terms, the report proposes a number of conclusions which I would like to reiterate to you the following. First, the energy transition in the Basque Country must be aligned at all times with the objectives of the European Union. Secondly, Euskadi must move forward on the path of energy saving and efficiency. Thirdly, the Basque public authorities have to continue and consolidate the efforts already made in saving and efficiency in sectors such as industrial or residential sectors and accelerate them in the field of transport. Fourthly, the transition in the Basque energy model requires the impetus of the social consensus that allows to increase the production of renewable energy in Euskadi. Fifthly, the social acceptability of energy and climate decisions is a shared responsibility between institutions, social actors and citizens. People as consumers and energy producers must be the fundamental pillar of a fairer energy transition. The energy transition must be equitable for all sectors and especially for the most vulnerable groups. Finally, the transition to a low-carbon economy is, in our view, an important opportunity for economic and industrial development and job creation in the Autonomous Community. Following the completion of the report, I would like to highlight the importance of three milestones in this area. On the one hand, the adoption by this Parliament of Law 4/2019 of 21 February on Energy Sustainability. On the other hand, mention should also be made of the non-legislative proposal agreed at parliamentary level on 14 March, in which the Basque Government is urged to press ahead with the work to achieve a Basque energy pact by setting up a commission of experts. Finally, on 30 July 2019, the Basque Government signed an institutional declaration on climate and environmental emergency, setting out the objective of making Euskadi a carbon neutral territory no later than 2050 and as soon as a fair transition allows. The importance of these laws and declarations must be recognized. And these commitments must be placed in urgent and immediate local actions to reduce the use of fossil resources until the total decarbonisation of our society, actions that concern not only the institutions, as I said, but also the citizens themselves. It is by this report that Eukadin requires a social condition to be supported by the current progress of the energy transition, and to speed up the most agreed measures. That is, to increase the saving and efficiency of energy as much as possible, to encourage Eukadin's retractable energy, to diminish the consumption of the fossil energy of Eucharadia and the fluids of the heat effects, especially in the transportation. With regard to social inclusion issues, I think it is useful to note that the Basque Country has maintained a lower poverty rate during the crisis, among other factors, thanks to the social protection system and the economic benefits of income guarantee income, housing supplementation and social emergency aid. However, the economic growth that is taking place is not yet reaching vulnerable sectors of society: people who are socially excluded, belonging to cultural minorities, single-parent families, people with low qualifications, people with functional limitations, intellectual disabilities or physical and mental health problems, long-term unemployed, young people. Prevalence in social policies should not exclude other policies aimed at redistributing wealth, preventing the feminization of poverty and preventing social exclusion. In addition, we consider it necessary to be committed to social clauses and to support the access to employment of the most disadvantaged groups, especially persons with disabilities. The Department of Employment and Social Policy has put in place measures to facilitate job training, as well as accreditation of vocational training for vulnerable groups. And Ararteko positively values these initiatives, as job activation without exclusion is a priority guideline for achieving the social inclusion of all people. A large number of people continue to be detected throughout 2018, however, who do not access GIR despite their situation of severe social exclusion. The recently published Social Needs Survey 2018 also highlights poverty indicators that need to be reflected, taking into account the purpose and spirit of this regulation for income guarantee and social inclusion. In 2018, no progress was made in amending the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act. The amendment of this regulation seems appropriate in order to adapt the social needs, including the necessary technical and legal improvements. The new law should be the subject of the greatest possible consensus by affecting the most vulnerable population in our society and by taking into account, in addition, the conceptual and terminological commitments and advances incorporated in the various plans of the Government, the regulations or preliminary drafts already adopted and, as previously stated, the preliminary draft reform of Law 4/2015, for the equality of women and men. There are a large number of single-parent families, made up of women with dependent children, who report that they do not have housing. In addition, as I have said, unemployment or middle income indicators are also unfavourable for women. Public policies aimed at the inclusion of people compete at different institutional levels. This requires prior coordination and planning, which is undoubtedly subject to improvement. Municipal social services receive demands for assistance from families who do not have income or housing, resources that are the competence of other administrations, which, in the event of lack of coordination, results in multiple difficulties and impacts on their social accompaniment functions. The largest number of complaints that Ararteko deals with in this area continues to affect the management of GIR, although in 2018 it decreased its number compared to previous years, by around 17% less. The processing of some of the complaint files continues to see a thorough monitoring and monitoring of the requirements and obligations to be met in order to be a holder of the RGI and supplementary housing benefits. The reviews of the files by the offices in Lanbide are, according to our usual experience, those that allow to rule out in principle suspicions about the fulfilment of that public responsibility. An issue on which Ararteko insists is that, if the perception of the economic performance in its entirety is conditioned on the fulfilment of certain conducts and obligations without the possibility of guaranteeing a minimum vital situation, situations of extreme difficulty occur. The proposal to condition only part of the provision in situations of total absence of income would alleviate the current pressure on municipal social services and would be a valuable measure in the fight against child poverty. It should be mentioned that in an important part of the complaints whose processing was completed in 2018 Ararteko considered that Lanbide's performance had been in accordance with the legal order. However, a significant number of interventions continue to exist in which differing views are maintained, and recommendations and suggestions have been sent out which have largely not been accepted by this body. The intermediary appears to be essential to the work of organizations which have been developed by the service of society and the bag of preparations, and to accept the regulation which is not yet allowed to develop the law of the Social Services. Besides, considering the life and complexness of society in this respect, we must continually estimate and predict the policy of improving new public policies and the modern legal circle, without exception to the social community. The measures which the public administration of eroscals reduces immigrants and refractorys to the society of strangers and refractorys are of immense importance, and this also agrees with the ends of the world's will for migration. As the migration party has increased, it must necessarily be invested in education, dwelling, health, social services, and suitable employment policies, in order that society may understand the advantages of this fact, and the social services of social distress. This state has no reversal, and the political system must be answered by self-instructors. These politics ought not to depend on the conditions under which they cannot or can hardly be fulfilled. In conclusion, I mean that, in order to complete the population of the social elements, there should be an effective exercise in the scope of the national strategy of social society in Europe, in the National Strategy for the Gypsies and in the Eucala strategy of the people of the Gypsies. One last point I would like to raise in relation to the international European dimension of Ararteko. This sect of Europe and of the world of this institution naturally penetrates into the activity of the intermediary. In particular, we performed 33 activities, which are related to the VI. of the report. in section, "The importance of the activity of the interrogation in the name of Europe and the level of the world." Among them, I shall mention only a few. In May, the Gaste name was organized and done as an amphitarian, the mint of the International Institute of ONTI Ombudsman: It's a good direction for the environment: Ombuds' function in order to protect environmental rights then On the other hand, we participated in certain activities relating to the Network of the Children's Defence Organizations (ENOC) in general meeting and at the 22nd meeting of the mental health of children and young men. The EYA project of 2018. Or whatever they have to do with the rights of refugees. Among them the report was made in the circle of the ONI activities in Europe about the socialization of asylums and refuritions; I've already been too long here to finish it, and I want to thank all my colleagues in the Ardal organization for their zeal, for their effective work, and for their commitment. Without their help we couldn't have carried on so much activity. To finish my speech, I would like to thank you for your attention, and to ask you to follow me through the State and the law to fulfill the duties given to this parliamentary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u2	Thank you, interrogator. Next, we'll go round the teams and begin with Mrs. De Bengochea, representing the Basque Potula Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u3	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin this speech on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party by thanking Ararteko for the presentation of his report, because it must be said that it is a comprehensive, easy-to-read report and that he also gives us an X-ray of what we in Euskadi have failed to do, or that the Government has failed or has failed to do so properly. So it's an x-ray that we rarely have access to in such a detailed and complete way, while we usually have x-rays – and it's not a reproach – of the government's achievements often. Well, now we have an X-ray of the state of the situation with what fails or with what we just didn't do right. Ararteko has explained quite a few things about his report, but of course, in the time he had it was not possible to make an extensive count. But I will start by saying what we are particularly satisfied with the Ararteko report. To begin with, we mean that the complaints have dropped drastically, I would say, except in Gipuzkoa, that they have had a small turn. In Bizkaia they have dropped from 1,542 to 1,333, and it seems to us an achievement. And in Álava they have dropped from 863 to 592, and it seems to us also an achievement. It seems that we are improving the relationship between administrations and citizens. But there is another fact that I would like to point out, that we are a little spoiled by what I have just given you, and that is that the Ararteko makes recommendations, logically, and the recommendations that the administrations do not accept, do not assume, have risen: it is 16.75%. They'll tell me it's not much, but, let's see, as he said, there's a consensus on the Ararteko bridge between citizens and the administration. If we read the report carefully, we will see that each of its resolutions is very articulated around all the legal documents and very well argued. So we do not understand that more than 16% of its resolutions are silent or, I think, contempt. I believe that this is something that the Basque administrations, and especially the Basque Government, which this Parliament controls, should improve on. And there's another fact that also spoils a little the joy of seeing the complaints come down, and it's next. A person complains, and the first thing Ararteko does is see if that complaint is justified or not. Last year 53% of complaints were found to have no justification. I mean, a citizen may be very upset about something, but Ararteko finds no justification for the complaint. That was the year before, 48%. This year, up to 53% of the actions reported by citizens, which Ararteko finds incorrect and therefore justified, have risen. I mean, we have fewer complaints but of those complaints we have a much higher percentage in which Ararteko really sees a lack of performance. I want only in the time that I have left, which is very little, to touch on two issues that have worried us a lot in our group. First, it is the subject of ESAs. In other words, the fact of the delay in the granting of ESAs, which is often caused by the government's failure to transfer enough money to the municipalities to pay ESAs, needs to be addressed. Then, October comes and the municipalities run out of money, and then they have two options: either stop paying the AES or wait for the government to send more money. This is not a correct way to act. The city should have enough money to pay the AES for the whole year and not a bottleneck in October. Another thing that we found important is the fact that we had the expectation created – and it was approved in this Parliament – of the creation of two new courts of violence against women, and it has not materialized. Then, the courts of violence against women are to a certain extent saturated. And the last thing I'm going to name you is that we believe that the department that has the most holes, the most difficulties, and that causes more complaints and that causes more frustration to citizens is the Department of Housing. We have 65,000 registered people waiting for rental homes. We have set targets for 2020 for the number of rented houses that we would have built that, of course, is that... Let's forget about them! In this field it is very important that we define what a single parent family is. We have the type of single-parent family without legal definition, and citizens need it in the area of income guarantee income, but above all and also in the area of housing, which is where Ararteko most complains about the shortcomings in the responses of the administrations. I would therefore like to say that after reading the whole report, we are concerned about many aspects, but we are particularly concerned, because we consider it structural, not small examples in one area or another, but structural, the deficiencies of the Housing Department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u4	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u5	Thank you, President, Lehendakari, Sailburuok, Ararteko and people who accompany you, ladies and gentlemen, egun on guztioi. Firstly, from the Socialist Group, we want to thank the Ararteko, as it cannot be otherwise, and his entire team, the work done and the presentation of the 2018 annual report at this parliamentary seat. It is always a pleasure to receive in this Parliament its high commissioner for the defence of the rights of people in relation to the public actions and policies of our public administrations. Mr Lezertua, you are the visible head of this institution, which is configured as the intermediary between the administration and the citizenry to respond to the demands, complaints or consultations that the citizenry itself poses in its relation to that institution, with the aim of informing the public authorities about the rights it holds, as well as to carry out another series of actions aimed at the evaluation and diagnosis of public policies. In short, Ararteko is an institution for guaranteeing and defending the rights of people, which provides more control and democratic quality to our public institutions. Fortunately, we have assumed that the human rights system is a basic pillar of our democracy and coexistence, and it is the duty of the public authorities to work towards optimising the system itself. But the fact is that the constant evolution makes the needs of the citizens themselves sometimes go ahead with the actions of the administrations themselves, and this is where the proactive and preventive work of Ararteko promotes the constantly evolving and improving of the way of providing quality services and, above all, of guaranteeing the exercise of rights, and of combating and eliminating inequalities, discrimination, precariousness and social exclusion. Coming directly to the content of the report itself, it is observed, indeed, that the global activity, from a quantitative point of view, has continued in 2018 progressing, as in recent years, since the actions related to the attention to citizenship, collaboration and control of the administrations continues in this trend of increase of 8% regarding the previous year, and this is only the consequence of the confidence, as I said, growing of the citizenship in the institution. As regards the complaint dossiers – as they have already said before and as has been commented by Ararteko himself – I think it is necessary to point out that, in addition to a slight decrease, 84% of the cases did not require the issuance of a formal suggestion or recommendation, since they were resolved in the course of their processing, which means, ladies and gentlemen, that in our administrations they voluntarily accept the criterion put forward by Ararteko in this case. I want to highlight some issues, a couple of them. A first mention of the extraordinary report on the Basque country's energy transition to a sustainable model. We have always said this from our group and we value it positively, because the achievement of a sustainable model, respectful of our environment, with our life, makes it necessary to act on these so-called fourth-generation rights, which are priorities for the present and future of Basque society and citizenship. In this regard, it should be pointed out, because it is a matter of justice, that the Department of Housing and the Environment is making progress in this regard and that both draft laws, conservation of the natural heritage and environmental administration of Euskadi have been submitted. On the other hand, I believe that it is also necessary to mention, because it is also made in the report, and from the point of view of free justice, that Ararteko should endorse Decree 153/2018, on free legal assistance, of the Department of Labour and Justice, which contains many proposals for the improvement of the essential system of free justice, which guarantees equality before the law, the exercise of the right of defence and effective judicial protection, as well as social integration. And I also highlight from his report complaints, important in number, which provoke banking and insurance activities, which are not subject to supervision by the institution, but we highlight their involvement in advising users and consumers, noting also that from the Department of Commerce and Tourism, important advances are also being made in this regard to protect consumers and users – which I would like to recall, we are all – in the process of amending the Statute for Consumers and Users. This is to pursue the promotion of responsible consumption and the protection of disadvantaged individuals and groups. And finally, from the Socialist Group we absolutely share, as it cannot be otherwise, the need to strengthen the culture of human rights. Both citizens and public authorities must defend and remove all obstacles to the exercise of the rights of all persons, regardless of their origin, race, sexual orientation, gender identity or functional diversity, especially by looking at this unbearable phenomenon of macho violence, which is, as we all agree, the most hateful manifestation of inequality. In achieving real and effective equality between women and men, we all agree, and the protection of women and minors who are victims of sexist violence is a priority for decent and democratic societies and governments. And, in that regard, it is essential to give equal policies greater binding force, more resources, more means and greater political weight. In that regard, the second amendment to the Act on Equality of Women and Men, which must be passed in this Parliament as soon as possible, must be taken forward. Finally, I cannot stop expressing and congratulating all the Democrats. We finally got the dictator out of where he never should have been. So recognition, justice, dignity and memory for all the people who gave it all for democracy, for democracy and for freedom. I would like to repeat my thanks to Ararteko and his entire team. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mrs. Guanche is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u7	Thank you, ma'am. All the members of the legislature, the chief division, the lord of the army, and all your band, thanks for your contributions and your doings. For Elkarrekin This report is very valuable, as is all the work the institution does in its day-to-day defense of citizens' rights. As we said in the committee, where we have already dealt with this report, from our group we put some alarms about what it contains. And since we have little time, I'm going to be as concise as I can, knowing that we're going to have things left out. In our opinion, in the defence of the citizens' rights, the intermediary is an indispensable institution, and therefore I would like to remark one thing: You have to pay more attention to his work. More than 9,000 face-to-face complaints, almost 5,000 phone calls, more issues resolved without issuing recommendations, but, at the same time, more recommendations ignored by the institutions, 8% less of the recommendations addressed than last year. And, I see, they are 50% of those that are issued, since they overshadow the joy of the drop in complaints and we are, of course, concerned about them. Since this concern, we would like to point out some things relating to the various sections of the report. Firstly, on the report of the Office for Children and Adolescents, which points to an increase to 729 complaints compared to 490 in 2017, involving girls, boys and adolescents, of which, in addition, almost half have to do with material conditions, namely 41% with the GIR and 38% with the education system. Data that should draw attention to this Government, but that we do not know very well what is being done, because year after year there are things that are still the same or worse. In education, the second area with more open files in the government, most of the complaints have to do with the admission of students, transportation and scholarships, fundamental elements that reflect the concerns of the educational community of the year 2018 and that should guide the government to give a clear answer. Absent or contrary response, as we have seen, for example, with the proposal of the unique information and enrolment offices proposed by the Ararteko, which has also proposed our group and have been rejected by the groups supporting the Government. Questions relating to finance. On the one hand, and given that Basque society has become aware of the serious problem of corruption of clientelism also in Euskadi, as we have said before, we believe that citizen participation is one of the most effective means of exposing and combating political corruption and, as such, must be protected and encouraged by the public authorities, something that Ararteko supports and mentions in this report. The potential benefit of increasing these citizen complaints in areas where the law of silence often operates makes it essential to establish mechanisms for the protection of persons making such complaints and that, while different channels of information collection have been established, for example in Lanbide, they must be something widespread in other areas of the administration, because we already know that half of the cases are reported by the citizenry. This is also said by Ararteko. On the other hand, and because it directly challenges the powers of the government, it is essential – says the Ararteko, eye, not me – to make a greater effort to take account of the different models of family, and to take fiscal and tax measures that recognize and protect families, such as single parents to persons with disabilities or dependency. All this has gone through a great deal of outstanding duty – and I am glad that you are here, Mr Erkoreka – which is the need to make the information and communications of the institutions also accessible, something that we have repeatedly addressed, but which is still pending. With regard to the environmental recommendations, firstly, as it cannot be otherwise, I would like to congratulate Ararteko on the extraordinary report on the necessary energy transition in Euskadi which he presented last December. We also welcome action on a number of issues related to environmental protection, the media and social impact of which is unquestionable. We are talking about the protection of the wolf, the fumigation of the pine trees and the construction of the access roads to the Aralar massif, issues in which the Administration may be tempted to act to promote specific interests to the detriment of the general interest. And it's important that Ararteko reminds them that the laws are about to be enforced. As far as housing is concerned, I am not going to expand, because I have already been well preceded by how it is repeated year by year the impossibility of implementing the subjective right to housing recognized by Basque citizens, and although Mr Arriola is not here, let us hope that he will take note. It is also concerned that public rental housing will become a space for rights violations in the face of the potential for eviction of families who are unable to afford them. We recently knew of a case in Barakaldo of a woman who was the victim of sexist violence and also with minors in charge of it. In the area of health, there are also open fronts that we think it is important to highlight, issues that I am just going to outline: the comprehensive health protection and prevention programme in the health system; mental health care, especially serious in children and young people, and what we have here is the closure of the psychosocial module of Cruces. Delicate. In the area of equality, quite a few juicy issues that do not give me time to address. On the one hand, we do want to point out the lack of information aimed at ensuring full respect for the freedom of sexual affection, as well as knowledge of any medical needs that may arise from the gender identity of individuals. And we are concerned, because a law has been passed here that requires action in this regard. On the other hand, complaints related to the equality and integrity of women, in particular with regard to the gender perspective, which is not being implemented in social services, in relation to staff training, prevention, detection of cases of sexist violence, adequate orientation towards rights or services. Finally, mentions of things that are repeated year after year, such as the boasters, and that we understand that they require a courageous bet on the part of the institutions. And I will not end without talking about the Department of Employment and Social Policy, of course not! Despite the improvements in which Mr Ararteko has already stopped, this Department has the dubious honour of having in its hands 44% of the complaints and 70 of the recommendations not accepted. Last Friday we listened to Mr Belandia saying something that I think, almost textual, that Ararteko responds to specific cases and they cannot listen to him because they have common interpretations in the 700 offices. If the regulatory law of the institution is read, it is clearly stated that "Ararteko has the possibility to direct recommendations or recall legal duties to the competent bodies, officials or their superiors, in order to seek to correct illegal or unjust acts, or to achieve an improvement in the services of the Administration". Ararteko himself points out what I am going to read textually: "Recommendations are reserved for cases in which a violation of the legal order is detected, an irregularity in the strict sense or a very serious omission, and the administration concerned is required to review such action". Reminders of legality. I hear Mr Belandia's words again and, either we speak different languages, or what is here is a lack of respect for this institution by a department that is believed to be above good and evil, even above the institutions of control that we have endowed ourselves with. It would be a gesture of political responsibility and respect for citizens and for institutions to end this high percentage of unaccepted or unanswered recommendations from the Department of Employment or Social Policy. We will continue to wait and, in the meantime, remind you that every recommendation or suggestion that is not accepted not only represents an impediment to the guarantee function of the institution of Ararteko, but essentially implies the persistence of the violation of legality or the violation of citizens' rights, preventing the replenishment of their legitimate rights. Ararteko's words in this report, not mine. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u9	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Your Honor, for explaining the year's report deep down, and for the work you congratulate on. Don't hesitate that the work you and your team do every day is absolutely necessary to defend the rights of the people. EH Collect won't determine the number of kerosene files or activities, because you've already defined it and besides, the spokesman, as you know, because we're short of time. But we shall insist on certain ideas, even from the surface, the shades already made on the committee, which are things we shouldn't forget. The word frustration was repeated several times at this committee, several recommendations and advices repeated every year in the year's report. And in a great measure, it means that your work from the Government, or from different institutions, is very little attended to, and that the most injured collective reports are repeated. That's why we feel the frustration that you and us. Can't forget that the intermediaries are related to 55% of social rights: education, health, social protection, housing, as we have said before, year after year, same collective years. Between the files opened by trade are evidently the chief of society, and, in order to give an example, it is plain that the restrictive plan is made against that which is committed in the nature of the revenue. On the other hand, this year you have been obliged to repeat the necessity of considering the highest interests of the minors, or, after 20 years, to avoid the law of susceptibility. It's really amazing. As to the equality of women, we cannot say that we have improved much, and that we have nothing to say about the feminization of poverty. In this case you say that the Administration must be a pattern, and, of course, we share your reflection, because in this sense there is a great deal of work to be done. And in this respect we must tell you that we shall wait eagerly for the extraordinary report of equality which you will publish next year. On the other hand, we would like to point out the deficiencies in Osa, and that they are repeated again. Again we must remind ourselves that complaints about the arranged health transport are repeated, for instance, and the still existing problems in the waiting lists, which appear this year. It cannot be forgotten that the state of many persons in an irregular state is not the universal health-almost. This collective, as I have already observed, is in a state of great trouble to receive a health attack, and what to say about the affairs of the housing. And we may deepen the number of strangers who have arrived from the coast of Andalucia, the Arlias tends to pay attention to these young and children for the complex challenges, and this reflection is also shared by the E-RG. Healthy, education, environment, occupation, minors, professions, social services, feminizations, and complaints that appear every year. We ought, in our opinion, to ask ourselves what kind of society we seek to promote; and we ought to ask ourselves what means and means we should endeavour to establish that society which we please. We'll end up, as we did on the committee, with a few words that appear in the report. Although the social police have the preference, they cannot neglect other politics, the distribution of wealth, which tend to acquire the equality of genera, and to avoid the maintenance of social institutions. Besides, the firm wager is deemed necessary to the social clauses, the protective employments, and the crowds of society. We will continue, as we are doing in the course of the law, in the manner that we are doing, because we have very clear evidence of what society is to be encouraged. We are going to encourage the society which has no place in the watering of human rights, and while we wait for the report of 2019, we hope that we should behave properly with you, and not be obliged to speak of frustration next year. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Finally, Eubertarians, Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief Department, members of the legislature, gentlemen and your crew, all good days. We have to thank the intermediary and his team for the work they do for the year, and also for the preparation of the report, the general report and the report of the Child and Nerabe Bureau. We ought, indeed, to be grateful not to keep or guard the forms, but because the work they do is useful and useful to all of us and to society in general. The effort of the work of the interrogators is reflected in this report, and is also very helpful to the Administration and to those who use the Administration. After all, that's the point, whoever goes to Administration needs an answer, needs to be heard, and to find a solution if there's trouble. Although the reading is negative to some, I believe we ought to value the work which the Administration and the Government employs every year to penetrate and improve all these complaints and suggestions. Again, we must do this in the shortest possible time, if possible in the shortest possible. I will not deny that there are things which must be improved in the administration and the community, which is true, and this appears in the report. Things have to be improved, procedures must be improved, and time must be reduced. But the report also shows that there is will in the administration, and that, as far as possible, problems are listened and solved. If there are such requests, it is because there is a system, and consequently the people receive this service, and often require a better or even greater answer, from the fact that they know the Administration more and more clearly, and are not so foreign to it as before. To know where weakness and strength are, and to know what they are, is useful to us all. To the point, as important as the goal, it is as important as to reach the goal. And this path must be as easy and as light as possible. Often the attention and light procedure are grateful, especially in the presence of certain circumstances and in the presence of some questions, and the people who are in serious circumstances must be heard and attained the results. Here it has been mentioned that requests have been raised in 2018. There has been 8% of the rise, which is a tendency that happens every year, which always exists because there are frequently new wants and needs. I would quote a few words which appear at the beginning of the report, because they are significant and significant. It is said that a culture based on human rights must be strengthened. Okay. But it would be more just to say that we must continue to strengthen the culture based on human rights. In the priorities which we shall examine in a few days, and which will be discussed, this point of view is reflected. A lot of money is used for social matters, and this culture has been in ours for a long time, and if we are an example outside, it will be something and the point of view and environment have been strengthened. We have but a limited time, and I cannot examine the affairs of many departments and departments here, but, for example, it is a profession that is often called the source of petitionings, and the report is reported by the ion, that the improvements have been made in the administration of halbs. Seeing this, it's the same or almost the same reading that some people do every year. And I don't think that's very neutral, and he doesn't have much to do with reality. The better things are there, the better ones are there too. In the report, it is clear what is the tendency, and I think it is only fair to admit it, and to make real reading, and not merely to look and look at the negative sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Now that we've finished the whole meeting line, we end the monographicographic and start a whole new round. It was ten o'clock in the morning and forty-five. The meeting began at ten-six in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u13	Now that we start with the vote, I'll ring the bell. [[Silent]] "On the other hand. The drawings of the whole 17th of October, according to the 92.1 article of the ruler, to the motion introduced by the members of the Poldemos to José Ramone Becerra Carollo, together with the legislature of the Podemus, about the "Bausque Country Logistic strategy." It was a draw in the vote of the universal corrections introduced by the Euubertist and the Sociialist Basque Society together. Following the site's 92.1 article, we're going to make that correction vote again. So you can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u14	Since it is a draw, the integer correction is cancelled. First point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by Don Rodriguez Lejara EH Collectorian, about 126/20 Decretums of the old Rascal Autonomy, the older of the Erdiians. Discipline and final resolution. Your turn, Mr. Rodriguez, is to introduce and defend the engagement. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u15	Thank you, Mrs. President, and good morning to all. At the last control circle we took an interpolate to the head of the Artola Wides. We asked him carefully if people who live at the old houses are worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u16	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u17	And also the conditions of work required by the guards who work there. And the theme that we wanted to bring about this discussion is very important. As we said the other day, I also want to remark that 180,000 people live at the agebeds in Araban, Uska, and Gipuzia. As we explained in our interjection, the new decree will in many cases cause the revolt of the ratios. In fact, the direct attention given to the elderly will be less than what the 20-year-old decree prescribed. Besides, the workers will also suffer damage, and the balance and crack of different countries would be greater and greater. So we asked the chief physician for a thought: We asked him to take it seriously what kind of harm his management will do. We requested that we should behave carefully, give up the rank required by his post, and reverse the new decree to correct the disorder that created it, and to prepare another decree, to ensure that it is really to be paid a worthy care of our age. That's our goal. Unfortunately, the answer from the chief physician was genuinely disappointing, and not only that, but also disturbing. We gave precise technical explanations, political arguments, and clear reasons, but in vain. Iba a decir "y vuelta la burra al trigo," pero no lo voy a decir si se malinterpreta. He said no and he said no. The Government has no intention of correcting its defects. So, with this government, it's no use. That's why we had to bring this motion here today. Our purpose is clear: to cancel the new decree and challenge a new decree. After that, I will explain the contents and the reasons of the points received in the motion. At the first point, the request is clear: Let the new decree be abandoned, and in six months' time a decree be approved by the government, who is evidently promoted by the assistance of daily activities. One of the allegations presented to the draft decree by the third social sector made the following warning about the decree: "We run the risk of having architecturally wonderful residences, but few of the fundamental input to guarantee the quality of care: human resources". To what extreme do the privations of the new decree extend as to direct attention? I'll give another piece of data until the definition of the tabernacle centers is broken. For, though the third article of the new decree says that the constant presence of the guards is to be maintained on 24 hours a day, for those who are subject to a very serious dependence, for instance, the presence of the guards would be limited in the day of 19 hours. A decree that, literally, as reflected in the working documentation, suffers from multiple inconsistencies and inconsistencies. In fact, the Euskadi Legal Advisory Commission deals in its opinion with literally "unravelling its possible meanings". The decree that makes it essential to repeal is defined in this way by the third social sector: a draft with a lot of letters, exactly 14,000 words compared to the 6,600 of the previous one, but with a content more than questionable in fundamental aspects: real sensitivity of the staff ratios to the profiles of the residents. In other words, the number of words in the text is increased, while the attention time is reduced. And, ladies and gentlemen, with text characters, people are not treated as residents, but with hours of care. I would like to finish this first point by paraphraseizing the thought of an arrangement taken by a decree project: He does not go only to the german wars, but to be careful, to be guarded, and this view has entirely lost the new decree. At the second point, we are concerned with the condition under which the new decree should conform to the demands of the workers. We propose in section, following international recommendations, that the daily support time is approximately 120 minutes average. Already in 2014 the Ararteko, in the report presented to the Basque Parliament, echoed some of the international recommendations. I will stick to the procedure proposed by the Social Care Association, which proposes to use a scale very similar to that used to measure disability and advocates ratios very close to other works of recognized solvency. And what do you propose? It offers 780 hours of direct care in centres per year for each dependent. 780 hours. Decade of the 90s, late 1990s. In the B section, considering the order of the intermediary, we plan to place the ratios in accordance with the presence of the person in direct care, and to express them in minutes. We must remember that the Government received the first order of the legislature in 2014 to update the previous decree. In this commission they were received to be made according to the order of the interrogator. Instead, in the new decree, as in the previous regulation, to calculate the ratio of resident staff, it is chosen to use this formula. In this formula the problem we find is that in the numerator a divider appears, which is the annual day of the labor agreement, and this implies that the direct care that the residents receive depends on the maximum annual day of the corresponding collective agreement. This formula of calculation generates monsters. For example, if women workers in a residence manage to improve their working conditions by reducing their working hours – something that has happened over the last 20 years – the centre can operate automatically with fewer staff, increasing the daily workload of geriatric assistants. In analogy, for example, to the trap of poverty – which I imagine the counselor will sound like – we could classify this formula as a trap of precariousness, because it is a self-sustaining mechanism that causes precariousness to persist in the sector. Let us use another example to illustrate the monstrousness of this formula in relation to the times of care of dependent people. For example, the fifth sectoral convention for Bizkaia provides for a reduction in working hours between 2021 and 2022. Well, this reduction in working hours, already agreed in that agreement, automatically implies, by the end of this formula, a reduction of almost two minutes of daily care for a person with severe dependence or great dependence. Fighting these monsters implies, as Ararteko proposed in his resolution, establishing ratios of physical presence of direct care personnel. In the D section we propose: like the previous decree, determining indirect attention by means of labor. For, without any explanation, the indication of indirect attention has vanished in the new decree. Is it possible that washing machines, cooks, etc. are not indispensable to guarantee the physical and physical welfare of elderly people? In the second-point e) section, we propose to consider the degree and type of attention of addiction to the establishment of the workers. As the previous decree did 20 years ago, the ratio of the new decree is reorganized into two single profiles of users. With regard to establishing only two profiles of care, the third social sector stated: "To deny that the profiles attended in 2017 have little to do with the geriatric reality of 1998 would be a dare, if not a total disconnection with the current configuration of residences, total disconnection with the reality of the growing difficulty of care of the more than 18,000 dependent people attended in residential centers. Equipping the attention needs of the zero degree and the degree one is, as has been manifested during the processing of the decree, a departure error, when not an empirical absurdity." In fact, the ESC notes the following in its opinion: "The care needs of these grades are objectively different; we understand that, unless there is a justification that should be known and that nobody knows today, both categories should be treated separately, depending on their own difference". The department responds to this, and responds as follows: "The needs of people at risk of dependency and those at risk of moderate dependence are similar, since those at risk of dependency who go to residence also require help to carry out basic activities of daily life at least once a day." This description is precisely the one that defines a moderate dependent, not a person at risk of dependency. If those are the support needs of a person at risk of dependency, they are actually moderately dependent. Look, I'm a big fan of quantum physics. Schrödinger's cat paradox is an imaginary experiment to expose one of the most counterintuitive issues, which is the quantum superposition, that is, the simultaneous existence of several states at the same time. If we look at the entire legislative output of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, we could talk about Schrödinger's dependents. Why? Persons at risk of dependency who, in reality, are moderate dependents according to the decree we are dealing with today, but moderate dependents who in reality are not dependent according to the draft law for the guarantee of income or according to the decree on aids for the reconciliation of family and work life. All this would be really funny, if it weren't tragic, since the attention that a moderate dependent will receive will be withdrawn in almost 30 minutes a day, 30 minutes a day. In the F section we plan to regulate the Departments of Health, the chief physician of the United States has left. As the Euscamy Escade Economics and Society Business Committee said of this, if a psychogrean profile and a social profile require different areas, they must also require different care and plantilities. In the G section, we plan to establish special employees at headquarters up to 25, just like the previous decree. Such a solution would answer, for example, the serious problem which I have just pointed out, namely, that the presence of the sentries in the little centres of the dorm would be 24 hours a day. At the third point we plan this: That material requirements are applicable to the establishment centres in which they are placed, and that they are always regulated by the exceptions, with the proper foundation. Because, I said at first, will the residential centers of older people be architecturally wonderful? Well, we saw a cover, just pass the decree, which said: "75 % of Basque residential squares must be individual in two years." This cover we could read. No, they won't. As set out in the first transitional provision, operating residential centres shall not meet any of the new material requirements. None. Once again, the Department of Employment and Social Policy first presses and then thinks. Chapter II, concerning material requirements, uses the literary genre of sperpent, since everything in it is grotesque and absurd. For example, the statement of reasons for the decree literally states that there is an exception in the single additional provision of the decree to its application to experimental centres. On the other hand, we go to the above provision, and there is only talk of accreditation of the centers, no exceptions, no experimental centers. Of this contradiction the department was already warned by the lawyer of the Department of Services two years before its approval, and later the Cojua made the same warning. Well, it hasn't been corrected. Let us continue with another example. Article 14.2 mentions the existence of general common areas for centres with more than 25 places, so it could be perfectly understood that centres with less than 25 places do not have to have common areas. But three articles later it is collected that common areas in the centers of less than 25 places have to have a certain size. Should they have them or should they not have them? But let us return to the block exception of compliance with material requirements, an issue that the Cojua says is the most problematic of the decree, since its opinion states that derogating from certain requirements, such as modularity or the number of individual rooms, can be reasonable and proportionate, but that it does not observe with identical clarity a justification to derogate, for example, from conditions of habitability, communication, security, protection and accessibility. In the fourth and fifth points, we plan how to finance or how to plan the right interest resulting from a new decree, to test the rise of a subsidy to the opening of a subsidy line of subsidies and material demands. And lastly, we receive, at the sixth point, the content of the new decree, which will be approved in a real act. I would not like to end without mentioning an issue that occurred to me last Saturday. Last Saturday I went with Maddalen Iriarte and Nerea Kortajarena to present this document: "The sustainable Euskadi, for a new intergenerational pact for a country of care", and there were representatives of the entire parliamentary arch, there was Joseba, there was Borja, there was also a colleague of Podemos and there were representatives of the Socialist Party, I understand that to adhere to this document. This document contains the following: "If care is a natural part of the life of the human being, in that circle that should be virtuous in which we are cared for, cared for, cared for again, the challenges posed by ageing would have to be considered as an incentive to progress as a society, to show ourselves and ourselves that we can deal with it by supporting our welfare model with a promotion of a social pact that builds a solid and lasting bridge between generations." The best way to build, to start building this solid bridge between generations is for the generations that we are part of this Parliament to ensure decent care for those generations that are currently being cared for in old people's residences in the three herriads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u18	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u19	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. It is true that the subject which Mr. Rodriguez presents to us is not new; It is true that during the preceding law, in 2016, we plainly told the whole meeting that the decrees of the government ought to be sent, and even at this time, on the 9th of February 2017, we told him that it was necessary to fulfil the order which this parliamentary law gave us during the preceding election. It's true, we have to report the government's position on this subject, because it's been late and it looks like things weren't done the way they expected. More than ten years have passed since the adoption of the Social Services Act and more than three years since the adoption of the Basque Social Services System Benefit and Service Portfolio Decree, including residential centres. As we all know, the Social Services Act marked a milestone by setting out as a subjective right the different services and services covered by the Act. It is clear that this Government, the Basque Government, must be given an earful, and this group has done so on repeated occasions, not only now but throughout all these years, because of the little regulatory development of this decree, and also because the decrees have come late, and also because, once they have arrived, it must be said clearly, as has happened with this decree, they have not met all the expectations they had generated. It must be said that the previous decree had been in force since 1998, so I believe that those mandates requiring the Basque Government to update the aforementioned decrees, including this decree, were absolutely justified on several occasions. I would also like to say that the Basque Government has had to be thrown out of its ears several times because it seems to be, as is often quite common, that in this case it also ignored the mandates of this Parliament at first. Without a doubt, the purpose of such a decree must be to ensure that users receive the necessary care and personal assistance. Beharrezko stops eman behar zaie eta attenzio integral bat ere eman behar zaie pertsona horiei It is also necessary to try this comprehensive care, guaranteeing to the users the personal care and assistance, so that, to the extent possible, obviously, they can also maintain their personal autonomy and personal development. As I said, it is clear that this decree, which was adopted in July and published in September, has not met all expectations. It is true that from this group we also do not propose a complete and absolute review of all the aspects that are contemplated in the decree. But it is true that, as has been said here, many of the considerations, many of the content and forecasts that were specifically contained in a report by the legal advisory services of the department itself, as well as in the opinions of the Legal Advisory Commission and the ESC itself, have not been taken into account. It is also true that it does not set too ambitious targets, for example, when we talk about the ratios of attention. There are ratios that are fixed and that some outside institutions, which must also be remembered that they are competent in this field, already exceed those forecasts. Obviously, it is true that the Basque Government, by establishing a regulatory framework for this matter in the above-mentioned decree, establishes a minimum, which is also true that outside parliaments can expand. But we can conclude that some of the aspects have not been satisfactorily resolved and, in that sense, not all expectations have been met, when this decree had to face, without any doubt, one of the main challenges that we have as a society, and that is something that the People's Party is constantly putting on the table. It seems that the Basque Government, this Government, does not take too seriously the demographic challenge, the demographic challenge that we have, with the low birth rates that we also present. They are not only the lowest in comparison with the rest of Spain, but with Europe, also in the progressive ageing of the population. In this regard, we have analysed in detail the initial proposal by Bildu. Although some of the points may certainly be raised, and in this respect we are proposing our compromise amendment, we believe, Mr Rodriguez, that it is much more appropriate to talk about revising the decree. You initially talked about suspending the decree, which is not possible, the suspension, and less from the department to decree or urge the Government to suspend a normative provision or a law or a decree. But you've finally sent a correction saying you meant repeal. Indeed, the repeal of a decree may be called for, but if we repeal the current decree it would not automatically enter into force in 1998. It would not automatically enter 1998 and we obviously have the doubt that there would obviously be enormous uncertainty in the sector and in those people who want to set up a residence or adapt to the rules in force. We would not know what rules should be applied and, therefore, what specific regulatory content there would be in this area. I appeal to the proposing group, since the Elkarrekin Group We cannot table an amendment. And I have to say that the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party does not come to say much, rather it does not say anything; it comes to say that it is going to continue with the line when I say that some aspects of this decree I believe can be substantially improved by the forecasts, as I say, of some of the documents and reports that have been drawn up in all its proceedings. That is why we believe that it is more appropriate to talk about the revision of the decree, taking into account the documents to which I have referred, and to modify those aspects of the new decree that are necessary to provide adequate attention, among which we consider that the following should be included: Establish appropriate staff ratios, differentiating the levels of dependence and the specificities of the psycho- and socio-health units. I believe that further progress can be made on this issue and that it can be further clarified when it is amended, because, in our view, it would be one of the issues that would have to be changed in that supposed revision. To attend to the typology, nature and size of the different residential centers. This is a demand that we have put on the table from the People's Group on repeated occasions. I mean, here you're making an absolute blank table for all residential centers, and I think it's necessary to establish differentiations in this regulation between the big residential centers and the small residential centers that, obviously, everyone understands are different. We also understand that it is necessary to regulate in a more precise way what corresponds to the Unit of Psychogeriatry, Sociosanitary Unit or the Unit of Cohabitation. Finally, with regard to all the debates, we also had the opportunity to participate as a group in a series of days organised by this Parliament to take stock of the Social Services Act. In this case too, it must be made clear that expectations have not been met, that development has been very low and late, which has also prevented the realization of that subjective right, which was set out in the law itself. But I also believe that, if we are honest – and we are, of course, from a point of view of competition and also from an outside perspective and from an absolute respect for the competences of the outside institutions – if we are all honest in this House and coherent, we should also call for the amendment of the law that makes the distribution of resources throughout the Autonomous Community, which is the Law on Contributions. In other words, we cannot tell the Members that they develop their powers and provide their services, in this case provided for in the catalogue approved in the decree of 2015, when they then do not have sufficient resources to realize those contents that they have entrusted. We therefore have a very important point that we believe is fundamental, which is to urge the amendment of the Act on Contributions. We have already done so through specific initiatives, but I believe that this is also something that is absolutely timely to be reflected in this debate, and that is why we have included it in a specific point in our replacement amendment. In principle, I have to say that we think our amendment is more correct, more accurate. We are talking about revising the decree and amending the decree in a sense. But we sincerely believe, Mr Rodriguez, that talking about repealing it would create a regulatory vacuum that would not be adequate and would generate much uncertainty, and would not be good for the sector or for the general public. I don't know, you can convince me in the second round but our position is this, I tell you, quite a lot of work, too. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u20	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u21	Yes, thank you very much, President. Today, the parliamentary group EH Bildu, through this initiative, initially called for the suspension of Decree 126/2019 on residential centres for older persons in the area of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and for it to be replaced within six months by another decree, which should be redrafted. Today, the debate on this point has already begun, and we have received the correction of errors which says that where it says in principle that it has remained in suspense, it is now requested that Decree 126/2019 be repealed. It is certainly more correct to ask for their repeal, because you cannot suspend a decree and replace it with another one in force before. But of course, my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, do not agree with this initiative, because – as Mrs Garrido has already said – we too believe that this request for abrogation would also lead to very dangerous legal uncertainty, which would bring a lot of damage, because with the adoption of the current decree the previous decree of 1998 is already repealed. But this is not the first attempt made by this parliamentary group. We already discussed in May 2019 in the Employment and Social Policy Commission the attempt to suspend the application of Decree 126/2019, with the presentation of a non-legislative proposal on re-assessing the gender impact report of the Decree of residential centres for older persons in the area of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. That proposal was not approved, nor was the compromise amendment tabled by EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos. Within the initiative itself, what he felt should be reflected in that report was also marked. To our parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, this seemed to us to be a misconception. We were counting on the gender impact report, prepared since October 2017, but that initiative presented it two years later, in March 2019, the EH Bildu group, and said almost two years after it had been prepared, not one, but two gender impact reports, by Emakunde and by the Department of Employment and Social Policy, that they did not like that report and that another report should be prepared, and they also defined what had to be collected within it. That is, your group, if you do not make the report in some cases, makes it an excuse not to discuss the initiative, as in the case of income-guarantee income; and if you do, you say that you do not like it and that it is repeated, because you also consider that this report has to bear a number of points. We then said that we considered that the only thing that was intended to delay the development of the decree of residential centers seeking any excuse, and again today they ask, once the decree of residential centers has already been approved, that it be repealed. Obviously, this does not seem serious to us, and lately we are getting used to both the EH Bildu group and the Elkarrekin group We can bring, and try again and again, identical or very similar initiatives that have been rejected in previous plenary sessions or in the corresponding committees. The recently approved decree on residential centres for older persons aims to regulate the material, functional and personnel requirements for residential centres for older persons and to establish the conditions for their authorization of operation, accreditation and approval, where appropriate, and represents a step forward in the consolidation of the Basque system of social services. It was presented by the Employment and Social Policy Adviser to the Employment and Social Policy Committee of this Parliament in 2017; it fulfilled the mandate assumed by the GNP adopted in February 2017 in this Parliament; the public consultation procedure was initiated prior to the drafting of the decree and it has all the necessary reports; and the plenary of the Basque Council of Social Services on 5 February 2018 issued a mandatory report, counting the draft decree with 20 votes in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions, so it was approved by a large majority. And if their approval was based on that consensus, where different institutions and associations have a voice, we cannot now defend their lack of consensus and the request for the repeal of the decree. Thus, this decree has been drawn up with broad participation and coordination of professional colleges and associations; specific legislation has been compiled and the reality of the three parliaments has been taken into account; and it represents an advance in coordination between institutions. At the time of its elaboration, it started from different realities in the field of the Basque system of social services in the different territories of our community, which had to be tried to homogenize, from respect for the needs for the character of the care network in each territory. Mr Rodriguez, you acknowledged in your speech, in the full control of 11 October last, that the Álava Diputation has already stated that there is no impact, since the ratios of the centers managed directly are superior to those indicated in the decree; and the same in Gipuzkoa, where the Diputation has pointed out that the ratios of personnel are already implemented; and also in Bizkaia the impact is null and void. And that is because, as the Councillor for Employment and Social Policy pointed out, also in the plenary on 11 October, the decree sets minimum requirements, which, of course, can be improved by the deputies, which is what happens in the different territories, as, Mr Rodriguez, you yourself defended. The decree does not regulate working conditions, that is regulated by other rules. This decree improves the ratios to the 1998 decree and introduces a number of improvements: it talks about personalized care, people-centred planning approaches, improves the percentage of individual rooms and has had an institutional consensus, agreed with the three parliaments and with the Social Policy Council in Euskadi. That is why we cannot support the initiative presented today by the EH Bildu group, because what it seeks is the repeal of this decree and that a new decree be drawn up, in addition, giving it a period of six months. In these six months there would be all the legal vacuum that I pointed out at the beginning of my speech. And it also wants to be done with all the consensus, with all the participation once again of all the institutions and organizations. That is, he wants to repeal it, in six months he wants all that participation to be made again and another decree to be re-adopted. And we obviously do not agree, neither with that uncertainty nor with what you propose, and we advocate the maintenance of the current one. We do not agree with this initiative. What we are going to defend is our amendment to the whole, which we have signed by the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, where the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in carrying out its normative and planning functions in the field of the Basque system of social services, to continue to make progress in the deployment of the care network throughout the Basque Country, in a way that corresponds to the characteristics and needs of each territory, to the institutional architecture of the system and to the autonomy of each institution, and to the Community model of care, which also calls for decentralization and management. Nor do we agree with the amendment of the People's Group's decree. That is why, as I said, we are going to defend our amendment as a whole. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u22	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. The eubertarian is the representative of the group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, as far as the senior centers are concerned, our behavior is clear. We think it's necessary to work for the sake of the funk service and to guarantee the stability of the system, and we think it does, and that's what he's looking for from the start when he started this decree. We don't think that we are going to abandon the decree, and they don't think that when they discussed it yesterday in the Big Courts of Biscaia, the local members of the EH Collector didn't mention it. We think that this would leave us without legal security, and leave us without legistes, if we left him. It also draws our attention to the fact that EH Bildu is worth any criticism in order to be able to criticize government action later. Because you have spoken about the third sector today and it draws our attention to the use of the allegations made by the third sector, when we have seen in the Gipuzkoa Chamber how what you have tried to do is to put aside the third social sector, advertising it. It has therefore drawn our attention to the fact that at the beginning of your words those allegations have been brought to the fore. I'm going to get into data because I think this decree finally works on a lot of technical issues and we need to talk about these facts and compare it to 1998. On the one hand, as to direct facts and ratios, we see that at the moment when the degree of dependence is zero, or that this or that direct ratio of attention increases 45%, and that when dependence is two and three degrees, they rise to 23. We also see that the decree improves the percentage of the individual logels, que los cententos de nuna creacion deberán con más squares indifferentialles, beginninga un 75%, en vega del 25 percent actual. In terms of ratios, the 1998 Decree includes all staff in the ratio, and then specifies that out of that total, direct care staff must be over 65 per cent. Now we are not talking about other staff other than that of direct care, either that dedicated to activities of daily life, or technical staff; but not that of management, management and administration, which was previously included in these ratios. Also with this decree there are improvements in pharmaceutical care. Similarly, the age required in relation to the previous decree to request access to 65 years of age is delayed. And it contemplates, in order to maintain the unity of coexistence, the access of the spouses or de facto couples of the people you would use, as well as of those who believe they have a relationship of kinship up to the second degree of consanguinity or affinity, and maintain with it a relationship of habitual coexistence. Seeking quality and giving more personalized attention, the new decree narrows down the size of residential centres, establishing a maximum capacity of 150 places per centre, and establishes a modular structure, with a maximum of 25 places per module. After all, there are many initiatives that this decree contains, which, of course, we think are very important for improving the quality of service provided in homes for the elderly. We believe that this decree sought a clear objective, which is to ensure greater well-being and proper care for the elderly, giving users the necessary care and personal assistance; that users maintain their relationships with the community environment, calling them to participate in it; and that they promote their sense of security. It is also defined that the care model will be comprehensive and person-centred and, within this framework, a comprehensive care plan is defined, where the participation of the user and his/her family will be essential. Strengthening planning focused on this approach is therefore a fundamental objective, consistent with what is defined in the Social Services Act. This decree, as we all know, leads us to renew the decree of 1998, in which we have a regulation which is expressly restricted to the seat of the old. Many have changed since the order of 1998 has been made, and if we look at the demographics, we see that there will be more and more inhabitants of over 65 years. And that the characteristics of these dependences and dependences have changed. So we think it will be important to watch for the quality of the service I've been talking about and to guarantee the stability of the system. I should like to remark, too, that the work which has been sought for in this decree, and which I should like to set to value, has been a decree which has had a high degree of participation, and has at first been a decree which has had the will to associate with one another. And I dare say that since 2014 this decree is expressed by the fact that it has brought us many hours of labour and demanded a great deal of disputes and working hours, both in a technical and political position. When Mr. Rodriguez hears this decree, it's because it's a decree that's decided by itself. And we all know that, even you, it didn't work out that way. When you were in Congress, 2014, they started studying all the documentation and regulations. That's the way it was done in the three different parties, and that was the first thing that was done, and you and the local technicians participated in it. The first important decision was that the decree of 1998 should be replaced by two other decrees. It would be one, this decree, about the senior centers, and the other the service of the old people. So when all these internal works had been done, discussed with the technicians, and established a frame among them all, in 2017, according to the order of this legislature, the contents and structures of the decree appeared here. After that, he was also in public presence, and the project shared with 20 agents and entities. Several settlements were received, and then, on February 5th, 2018, the preliminary reports were transferred to the Basque Council of Social Services. There are different sets of fun, three sorts of forgeries, Eudel, unions, patriarchal, the entities of the third sector, and the professionals of each other. The report came out with 20 votes against one and two against each other. So we think it was a report that had a high degree of agreement. In conclusion, the Decrea on the senior centres of the EAE wants to demand a minimum of service for the rest of the organizations, as soon as they develop it, and to establish the minimum that will answer those real demands of the older collectives. I think what we should put in value here is a deal. Our system of organization leads us to step forwards between us and to place them in place of each other, and to see what are the reality of each of us. That's why we think, and we're going to do it for the sake of it, and then we're going to have to make some minimum of it, and then we're going to have to make a necessary application to the reality of each individual forge to guarantee the quality of those services which he has. So it's been a long time's work, so there's no doubt about it, it's been a document that's taken many hours later. Now we have its development and cultivation to do. We have seen how there have been disputes about him in the Great Assembly of Biscay yesterday. This is the time to discuss, to decide how this development is going to be done, to face it. We do not think that it is a document which ought to be rejected, and we think we ought to do so for the development and progress of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. A group that hasn't committed any correction, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u25	To debate, therefore, the decree adopted this past July, this last summer, of residential centers for the elderly, a decree that, in our opinion, comes late and comes ill. It is late because, as has already been said, residential centres were regulated by a decree of 1998, despite some minor modifications of 2005 and 2006. The decree, therefore, had largely become obsolete. In our opinion, it has become obsolete, not so much because of the old age of that decree, that is, because of the age of that decree, but because it has changed the reality of what it regulates, and, therefore, if we do not adapt regulation to reality, regulation is not effective. That's true. And, in addition, being effective in this matter, when regulating residential centers for the elderly, means guaranteeing a decent life for these people or not. It is therefore an important issue on which, in our view, the Government should not have allowed such time to pass under any circumstances. And this has also had consequences that affect the lives of older people in residences in a decisive way. These have been adversely affected by this lack of action by the Basque Government and, more specifically, in the latter period, by the Department of Employment and Social Policy. But the problem for us is not so much that it comes late, we know it's better late than never. The problem for our coalition, for our parliamentary group, is that it is wrong. It goes wrong, because its content is not going to solve the main problems that exist in our model of residential centers for the elderly. Problems which determine that at present the conditions in which the elderly are in the residential centres in Euskadi are not the best possible with the resources available to us in the Autonomous Community, are not the best conditions. We will not deny the existence of some positive elements in the decree regarding what we had previously. We also think that this is not much merit, because the previous decree, as we have said, is more than 20 years old: it is difficult for nothing to be improved, some element. But it must also be said that these small improvements that can contain the decree, have to do with the infrastructure that the residences must have and in many respects only concerns the new residences, has already explained it perfectly, I think, Mr Rodriguez. There is a bit of a trap here too, but for us the worrying thing is that there are several elements that are going to get worse with the new decree and that are going to affect the elderly in residences in a negative way, and, above all, that the fundamental issues, some of the most important ones, those that affect in an absolutely decisive way the quality of life of the elderly in these centers are not improved by the decree, and they are not going to solve the existing problems. On the contrary, even if the Government says it will improve the situation, it will worsen the situation of these people in residential centres. That is why our coalition is going to support the motion put forward by Mr Rodriguez, by the EH Bildu parliamentary group. Suspending or repealing a bad decree to put forward a decree that does contain the conditions that can guarantee adequate care for the elderly in residences is a good approach that we will support. One of the fundamental questions to address the regulation of senior residences is that of the regulation of what Mr Rodriguez has called human resources – I'm a jargon that I don't like anything, it's a euphemism that I don't like – the residence workers, mostly women. If at this point someone has not yet understood that the improvement of the working conditions of these workers, especially in relation to the workloads and the pace of work, is absolutely necessary in order to be able to guarantee the quality of these public services to the elderly, it is that it has not understood anything. Or that you've understood everything, but that you just want to save money and don't want to put older people in the center when it comes to managing. It is not only fair to improve the working conditions of these workers, it is necessary. It is necessary if we want good care in the residences. Collective agreements will regulate their working conditions, which may be won by trade unions in the negotiation process. But the decree – this decree, like so many others – collects things that affect these working conditions. In this case, these working conditions are decisive for the good, bad or regular care we give to older people in residential centers. In addition, the decree speaks of them. Over the last few years we have seen major conflicts raised by the workers of the residences in Euskadi. Now are those of Gipuzkoa, previously the conflict took place in Bizkaia. These are conflicts that arise as a result of a very concrete, concrete and hard reality, I would say. The working conditions of residential workers are not good. They are not generally so in any of the three territories, even if there are differences between them. This lack of good working conditions in women residential workers has a direct, decisive impact on the living conditions of older persons in residences. Anyone who has a woman working in senior residences in their environment knows how they are doing: with a huge workload, with haste, changing shifts, excessive partiality, calendars often incompatible with conciliation, not being able to plan their holidays, etc. The current conditions do not guarantee adequate care for persons in residences, and the new decree cannot resolve this issue in the terms in which it has been adopted. On the contrary, it can make the situation worse and, in fact, it will make it worse. I think Mr Rodriguez's explanation has been quite clear in this regard. It is going to involve, in fact, fewer hours of care for older persons in residences, fewer hours of care for people in need of such care with varying degrees of dependence. For us the conclusion is clear: the decree in the terms in which it is proposed and, unfortunately, already approved by the Government, is not valid. It is a bad decree with negative consequences for the elderly in the residences and for their workers. These are the reasons why we are going to support the motion brought by the EH Bildu group today, we would like to use it to make a little more in-depth reflection on the model we have for senior residences. We have a model, as in other areas, in our view, which is overly private. Most residential places in our community are private, arranged, yes, with public money. We have more than double the number of places in private residences than in public residences, something that is not casual, but is the product of the model that has been decided to promote over time. It is a model that we do not share, even recognizing that part of the concertation can be oriented towards the so-called third sector. For us, care for the elderly should have a network of public residential centres capable of covering existing demand. We know that that doesn't happen overnight, and we know that it costs a lot of money. But neither did we suck our finger, the current model has not been built from night to morning either. The system we build depends on the model we want to drive and implement. The model based on an important weight of private companies, entails a greater cost in the long run for the public administration and always poses greater difficulties in guaranteeing decent working conditions for professionals in the sector and, as we are seeing, also greater difficulties in achieving good conditions for older people in residences. If there are no profits, the business is not interested: this is logical. Therefore, for private residences to work, they need to guarantee those benefits in the profit account, they need the sharing of certain dividends, that is, and, therefore, there is a share of capital that ends up in someone's pockets. That is the case in private companies, that is also the case in many companies in the third sector, even if there are formulas to hide it. And, on the other hand, a public residence should not be deficient, but it does not need to have benefits in its profit account exercise after exercise, and that capital, if it exists, can remain in the public system. We believe that a model based on public property is a better model to ensure the quality of care that older people should receive in residences and to ensure that the working conditions of women workers are adequate, precisely to ensure that care, because we must, of course, conceive residences for older people as a genuine public service. Having done this reflection, somewhat more deeply, on the model – we did not want to miss the occasion – we reiterate our support for the motion, since, as I said earlier, we are facing a bad decree approved by the Government that needs to be corrected to improve the conditions of care for older people in residences. The content of the motion undoubtedly improves the decree adopted in force at this time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u26	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing on the answers, Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u27	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I'm going to start with some comments that the groups that support the government have made. Firstly, to the representative of the Socialist Party: you acknowledged that I was right and that the impact is null and void. The impact of the new decree is null and void. Isn't that right? It's null. All right. This is a problem. It's a problem because you're part of a group that supports the government and leaves the councilwoman at the feet of the horses, who literally said this decree improved the care of our elders. That you come here and say here that the impact is null, because, I don't know, it's an issue that you have to talk to each other anyway. To the PNV representative. There's a problem, which is repeating like a parrot what someone has told you. On the third social sector – this is an issue that has articulated as a political campaign Markel Olano against Euskal Herria Bildu – I will tell you three notes only: First, on the relationship with the third social sector: it is the PNV that has expelled the Red Cross from the provision of the Gipuzkoa beach service. Red Cross, third social sector. Second: for example, the model of care for disability, which is a pioneer, is a model built between the third social sector of Gipuzkoa and the Foral Diputation of Gipuzkoa, then in the hands of Euskal Herria Bildu. And another example I will give you: in our parliamentary group there are people from the social sector, or if you go to the City Hall of Gasteiz, you will also find people from the third social sector. Therefore, I do not allow you to question the relationship Euskal Herria Bildu has with... No, I just don't allow it. He talks about participation and he talks about it being a job that has cost a lot of time. Well, I think it was partly to get out of the way, but it's not that it's my opinion, it's the opinion expressed by the Cojua. It also seems to La Cojua that the decree is a little out of step, because it says, literally, analyzing the decree: "There is the impression that the contents of the annexes to Decree 41/98 have been brought to the articulated text, not all the adaptations required by this translation being made. The title of the paragraphs is a good example of this. Paragraphs should set an idea in a full sentence, which does not happen in article 6, 12, 17, and so on." Therefore, the Cojua has the same impression that much work in the final drafting of the decree has not been done. Moving on to the question they were moving on to repeal or revise the decree. First – this Mr Arbulo will like – it has not only been mentioned in the intervention of the People's Party, but in previous interventions: they have spoken of the decree of 1998 as an abrogated decree, but it is not abrogated, it is only partially abrogated, partially abrogated. In fact, the Cojua said in this regard: "As far as the chosen formula is concerned, the commission considers it more appropriate to adopt a comprehensive rule governing the system of residential centres for the elderly than to order the new regime through a partial reform of Decree 41/98". To which the department replied, literally: "It's that it's complicated." Complicated. After five years, it's complicated. But, well, given that the 1998 decree is partially in force, why propose repealing it? Precisely for security, for security. First I will try to expose it from the point of view of a residence manager and then from the point of view of someone who has taken over the management of a network of more than 4,000 places for 4 years. Firstly, if we only call for revision, especially without establishing a temporary framework, the problem is that the residences that have already received a mandate from the current decree to adapt to the new functional, material and personal requirements will not know what to do, because they will be thinking: okay, I have a mandate from this decree, but Parliament has said that certain elements will be reviewed, then what do I do? Am I adjusting or am I not adapting? But I'm gonna tell her too. I, in experience as an ex-parliamentary, would prefer to be told clearly: look, this decree is repealed. Perhaps our problem was, I recognize, that the counsellor should also be told what kind of repeal of the decree should be done, but the reasonable thing would be that, with the repeal of the decree, at the same time it would be said "and we are still in force or we are recovering the 1998 regulation", as soon as the text is being revised, in order to give legal certainty, because it is precisely the revision that generates legal uncertainty. But I'm done. I believe that your proposal is a redraft of our proposal, sincerely. Unfortunately, I have only had to certify the impossibility of an agreement, the vertigo of an agreement by surely exogenous factors. From Euskal Herria Bildu we defend that the care of people must be elevated to a political category, the care of more than 18,000 people, the care of those 18,000 people, and we will act accordingly. I share, I want to share one last thought with you. I think the grieving tree shouldn't stop us from seeing the forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u28	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Euscalal Group Representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u29	Well, in relation to revisions and modifications. We all know that the previous decree, in force until it has been repealed, in many respects, by the current one, published in September, was also amended in 2005-2006. That is to say, the existing decrees can be revised and can be amended, so I see no greater problem there. Of course, as the spokesman for Podemos said, for for some this decree will be better and for others not. Perhaps for you it is all abrogable, we may not be in such an extreme position. We believe that some aspects of this decree may be fine, but others may not. In this respect, we have proposed its revision and, where appropriate, its amendment. Of course, here too, you take the opportunity to mix labour issues, but I believe that this is another issue and that, of course, it is important, but it is not exactly based on some aspects that can be contained in the regulation of this decree. This is more a matter for the business community and for the specific businesses that provide this service. We, Mr Rodriguez, well, have considered it, and I think our text is more correct. I tell you from a legal point of view, I think it's more correct. We understand that it is more correct, once we have a decree in force, to talk about revision and modification of it, as was done in 1998, 2005 and 2006. They'd put patches on, whatever we want. We have all agreed, and we have therefore reiterated this in this Parliament in successive mandates, in which the corresponding decrees, including that of residential centres, were updated, but that decree was withdrawn by making amendments. I believe that we now have a decree in force, which is already in force, which is already in force, that this decree is already being implemented. It is not a decree that has not entered into force, because you could also have presented an initiative in this Parliament asking for a decree with another set of characteristics, but it is that this decree is already in force, so it is the legal framework and regulatory framework that the residential centres are going to attend, both those that are currently in operation, with the corresponding adaptation periods, which you know, as I do, that also in some matters the reports establish a series of cautions; but it is the one that we currently have in force. You say that the current decree is repealed, but you do not say that the 1998 decree automatically comes into force. We therefore understand that there would be a regulatory vacuum and that, in that sense, our wording is more accurate when it comes to revision and modification. I also invite you to consider voting on our initiative; I believe that it is genuinely more correct in the terms we have used in proposing a revision of a decree which in some of its contents has ignored the forecasts and the content of the reports and opinions which have accompanied all their processing. On the other hand, in some specific aspects, in terms of ratios, types of residences, all that has to do with psycho- and socio-sanitary units, we obviously believe that you can go far beyond what the decree itself has gone, and they are also aspects, as you well know – I know that the subject has been worked on – which are referred to in successive reports and contents. Therefore, of course, we will maintain our initiative to be more correct. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u30	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u31	Okay. What is clear is that the decree had to be adapted to the new realities and that is what has been done, after a long work of participation, after having had an important consensus and obtaining a vote with a large majority in favour of the decree and having all the necessary reports for it. Mr. Rodriguez, you haven't heard my words well and changed them, have you? You haven't heard them. You said that I did not support the Employment and Social Policy Adviser, because I said that the impact of the decree is null and void. I didn't say that. I have said that the impact of the ratios is null, because they are and are minimum requirements, which are already exceeded, and that you yourself, in your first intervention, already recognized that they were exceeded in the different territories, and you have not made any reference to that. You are not interested in saying that they are minimum requirements that can be improved, and they are already improved, fortunately, we are above, with which we are much better. So, it's not right what you said, I've referred to something else completely different. In your first speech, Mr Rodriguez, you missed the subject of structural requirements, the number of places, etc. Of course, the requirements now set out in the new decree cannot be asked to apply to existing centres, because that would also create chaos. It is logical that residences that are built and created upon the adoption of this decree should be those that have to meet the requirements that are currently collected and that vary with respect to the requirements that were set out in the previous decree. We can't get into non-regulatory. You know perfectly well that most of this decree would be repealed and we would go into legal chaos for a lot of time. Is that what you want for senior residential centers? Legal chaos? How long does it last? Because you say, no, let it be done in six months. But now he wants it to be done with consensus, to be done with a mugollon of participation, to be drawn up another and to have everything done in six months. That doesn't give time, you know perfectly well that you can't do that, if you want to do it like you say you have to. With this, do not propose the generation of chaos. Do not propose that people in residential centers have to be in legal chaos until you have to approve what you consider. That, moreover, even if another is approved, perhaps he does not like it and will want it to change again, because this is what we are used to asking for all the time: one thing is approved, I do not like it, that it be changed, that the application of that decree, etc., etc. be annulled. We didn't know what the Elkarrekin Group wanted to vote for. We assumed that Mr Hernández would support the initiative of the EH Bildu group. He did. You have pointed out that you are going to support her, even if that leads to legal chaos. You guys don't care. We would go into legal chaos until a new decree was adopted again. We will, of course, vote against EH Bildu's initiative and against the proposed repeal and the proposal for such legal chaos. Of course, in any case, it is more appropriate to talk about an amendment, as Mrs Garrido has done; we cannot ask for a derogation, to go into chaos and so on. But we also do not agree with the proposal made by the Group of the European People's Party. That is why I have already pointed out in my first speech that what we are going to do is support the amendment to the whole that we have tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, because it is the only one that is coherent. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u32	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gourga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u33	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Rodriguez, that doesn't allow me... I will say in this rostrum what you think is appropriate and appropriate in the debate that we have. I don't repeat anything like a parrot. I think I have enough judgment and we have nothing more to do with any of us to know what model was being sought in the four years of management you did in the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation. So, I don't think he should even bother listening to something like that, since it was what you were looking for, it was the publication of services. And now to use that, to use that third social sector that you wanted to put aside to criticize the government, well, if you think that is appropriate, ideal, but come on, we believe that it is already inconsistent. Nor will I enter into that debate of who is more expert in this Parliament and who has more social workers or less, or who has more scientists or less. I'm not going into that. I believe that here we come to make policy and to mark policies to improve the quality of life of the citizens of this country, and that is what we have to adapt to. I'm not going into that debate of who the expert is. We believe this government sought to make a decree in order to give the best quality in the ages, and to establish a few minimum in conjunction with the trients, in order to carry it forward. It is also clear that each forum will later have to develop this document and have its reality and its foundation in mind. I believe that in this debate we should also take into account what users of these services and their families think. When we do surveys of what they think, we see that families give a very high rating in the services provided from Basque institutions to residents. We believe that we need to continue to work to improve the quality of these services and to further improve that increasingly personalized care that we want to give from the residences. We're not going to let that go, but we think we're starting from a good situation. In short, what we seek with this decree and several other policies that start, is always to place people in that centre of the pretty ones. We think we're actually in front of a really-based document, and that's the way, you know, with different organizations and fun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u35	A chaos, Mrs Sánchez, is that a dependent elderly person is served only for seven minutes a day: that is chaos. Adopting a motion, in this case, would not entail any chaos, and in any case, if it were chaos, you would at least acknowledge that it would be chaos produced by the parliamentary majority of the House, because it takes something more than the vote of the Elkarrekin Podemos coalition, which seems to have accused us of having come here to generate chaos because it is. You have taken up a very specific technical issue. You know what the intention of the initiative is, in the text it can put what it wants, it is a motion, then the government will do what it wants. The debate is not the exact terms in which a motion is drafted; the debate is the decree: is the decree good or is it bad? Is the decree going to lead to an improvement in the care of the elderly in residences or not? We say no. We say that not for several months, since the decree came out, and therefore we will support that motion. The decree regulates things that affect the working conditions of women workers in the sector in a very decisive way. I'm always told here: it's not that we're talking about anything else, and you're already with the working conditions... The decree regulates things that are decisive for working conditions, and working conditions are decisive for the care that older people have to receive in residences, and that is why we discuss this issue. But I am pleased that the groups supporting the Government say that working conditions are another issue, that trade unions and private companies will already be talking about that. It turns out that the decree, chapter IV, says: "All jobs according to the type and characteristics of the centre may be part-time". So why do you pick this up in a decree? They couldn't put anything in. The partiality or not of the days will already be negotiated also in collective agreements, in collective bargaining the unions, right? But, in case, you do, because you know that this feminized sector has an excess, an abuse of partiality in the days. So, for some things yes and for others no. We will vote in favour of the motion. It seems to us that the decree is not correct, it is not a legal question as to whether the motion brought by Mr Rodriguez is better or worse drafted, it is a question of will, whether this decree is to be implemented, or whether things are to be changed so that the decree collects a number of different issues to ensure more appropriate ratios that allow the elderly in the residences to have good and better care.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u36	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The discussion is over, and we're going to vote for the original text of Mr. Lejarza's motion in Rodriguez. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u37	Original text therefore not allowed. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. Is there a problem with voting dot-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-have any trouble? How do you want it? Number one, and 2nd, and 3 out. We're going to vote for it in point. 1st and 2nd We'll vote for points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u38	So the 1st and 2 points are accepted. Next, we vote for number three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 66; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u39	So the third point is not accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced by Carolo Becero, a member of the Podemos team, concerning the changes required by the modern model of the schools. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Becerra, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u41	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u42	Ten days ago I told Mrs. Uriart that it was necessary to change the model of the school stations and that we were ready to make an agreement with our team. Ten days later we bring the agreement here, and in that arrangement, not only in time, but also in order to alter the pattern. Of these instruments, I would like to mention the conversation on one hand, and the conjunction between all the agents, because they are indispensable to a treaty. We still don't know all the characteristics of the new system, and we still don't know how to determine the characteristics of this system which belongs to the parents, to the workers, to the centres, and to the government, but we know what we don't want to do with the future. We don't want a dark system that creates frauds, we don't want a system that makes a preventive system, we don't want a system that isn't an educational system or a system that doesn't share, and we don't want a system that restores economic profits over the health of children and the economic economy. He said that we do not know what the characteristics of a new school dining system, of the new school dining system that will come out as a result of the agreement that we have reached today; but I can say that a few weeks ago, when we went to the Education Commission to the "International Days of Joy on Healthy and Sustainable School Food", I had the feeling that yes or yes in this country we deserve a better dining system than we have and a more similar dining system than we can see elsewhere. That is why, after those days, I was clear that we had to raise in this Parliament, above and beyond other debates that we have had on the investigation of the current system, the peremptory need to change the current dining system and that this need is a country-to-day objective. Changing the dining system is not a necessity for the Government, nor is it a necessity for the opposition. We can stay in the permanent rifirmrafe without the need to change anything. Changing this system is a necessity for our children, it is a necessity for the families of this country, it is a necessity for our educational institutions and for our economy and it is also a necessity for our environment and our climate. It is a necessity for our sons and daughters, for the boys and girls of this country, because they deserve the best possible system and what we have now is not the best possible. They deserve a healthy system to prevent childhood obesity. And in these days of healthy eating the data came out, for example, that in Japan by law every school has to have cooking. And in Japan they have a child obesity rate of 3.7%, while in Euskadi – if the counselor doesn't correct me – we are at 11%. Three times more. We need a healthy system that is not necessarily based on hot catering. And here I'm going to show you a graph where you see the evolution of the nutritional quality of the menus as time passes. After half an hour the nutritional quality has fallen, but after two hours it has fallen in half. Our schoolchildren eat the menus six hours later, not two. Six hours later. And we've based a system on catering, but it doesn't necessarily have to be based on that catering. In addition, it has to be an educational system, which educates in good habits and also in good eating habits. And I stress again here the Strategy for the Prevention of Child Obesity, which has also been presented by our Government, the Department of Health, in the past few days. And it has to be not only a better system for our sons and daughters, but also for families: that they can know with complete transparency where their quotas come from and what part of the funding of the system they contribute, and, above all, that they are sure that with what they pay the price-quality ratio is good or even better. And it also has to be a better system for schools, because there we have workers who take care of the dining rooms, who take care of the courtyards and who are subject to conditions of work at least improveable, and who are in a space, the dining room, which is – and these are official studies – the main source of bullying today at school. And it was said in these healthy feeding days – also said one of the attendees who came to the Education Commission –: "The motivation of the staff is an essential factor in the final quality of the service". We should be aware of that, of that important issue as well. But, as I say, not only families, not only boys and girls, not only schools, our economy too would appreciate a better system of school dining, because we have a primary sector that is in decline. We are importing 90% of the food we consume in this country and yet our primary sector is facing serious difficulties in exporting its products in a situation that is at least uncertain. And, on the subject of a debate that we may soon have on Trump's tariffs, we would have to consider the extent to which we are exporting our agri-food products and the extent to which we are consuming them here. I'm not going to joke about how much wine is consumed in our schools, but I could talk about how much Idiazabal cheese we consume in our schools and how much cheese came from other places, for example. But today is also World Climate Change Day, and we have to say that this country has been in a climate emergency for several months. In a climate emergency because, as I said, we are not only importing much of the food, but we are bringing it from the other side of the world. To this day, the fish that is consumed in our school dining rooms is panga coming from Asia, perch coming from Africa and tilapia coming from South America. This is what our schoolchildren are often consuming. And, in addition, they face that this type of food is worse nourished and food waste increases. So, last week, I offered a deal to the chief physician, and I told him we weren't ready to leave the system as it is, and that we weren't ready to let the time go by, but that we were ready to work and make a deal, and today, luckily, we're willing to file this agreement for the vote. This is the first step we have to take. The next steps will be to get an arrangement with the school and social agents, and the next step will be to get extensive agreements with other departments of the Government, such as the Department of Health and economics, and why not, with local institutions, we can see how we can make our system better. I end up quoting those "Jozo Days" again. , of Healthy Food" and the presence we had on the Education Commission of the Scottish Government's advisor on food issues. He presented the Scottish Good Food Nation program, a whole food policy, a whole declaration of intentions, with millionaire investments in school feeding, with millionaire investments to make food in their schools healthier, with limits on sugar and red meat, with increased fruit and vegetables, with restrictions on advertising insane foods; a policy that has led them to invest more than £4 million in school feeding, but which, in the words of his own advisor, has brought back to them, a 3 pound amortization per pound in the form of obesity control, in the form of combating climate change and in the form of a boost to his economy, which has become 53% local providers in his school system. In the days of Gozo a phrase was said that I was recorded: "Each community must be recognized in its school model". Each country, I would say, must be recognized in its school model. Euskadi is, today, a country with a gastronomic culture of its own, which generates pride in all the people who are part of this country, of this society, and we also have a structured school system, rooted in our villages and in our neighborhoods. Why not join both virtues? Why not join them in a system of dining rooms that gives us pride for our gastronomic tradition, for our gastronomic culture and that is also rooted in our villages and in our neighborhoods? A dining system that gives us the certainty that we are doing our best and impossible to ensure that our sons and daughters have the best dining system this country can offer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u43	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u44	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First of all, we must thank Mr Becerra for his motion as a result of questioning and for his willingness to agree and for trying to address an important issue for everyone, for this House and, of course, for society and for our children in schools, schools and the Ikastolas in Euskadi. The committee of inquiry into school dining continues to bear fruit. This compromise amendment is a good example of this, validating important aspects of the work of this committee of inquiry. The Government, with this signature, has also recognized the need for improvement and the need for change, and that is important. This is something we missed last day, but today it is important, even in this way, through a compromise amendment in relation to improvement and new ways of managing school dining. And that was also included in the recommendations that were part of the committee of inquiry's opinion, which we valued. But what the government has to do has to be done, and this agreement does, also at the request of the Basque Parliament. It's still important. I missed, I miss a more specific reference in the agreed text to those recommendations in the opinion, but I suppose the groups supporting the Government will have refused in band, in relation to this issue. But the important thing is not that, the important thing is that we have been able to reach that agreement, which commits the Government in the short term to making certain issues. Although we all know what is behind this initiative and the effects to which it responds, the regenerating effects of the committee of inquiry. In that sense, we are right. And Mr. Becerra has been right to bring this motion and to manage and negotiate its text. It responds to the recommendations of the committee of inquiry, which, I would like to recall, at its inception, in its introduction: "This committee notes that the design of the current system of direct management of school canteens presents a number of shortcomings and weaknesses, which should be addressed, in order to avoid future cases of concertation and market sharing between companies, as well as to improve the confidence, quality and price of the service offered to families". It also stated, with regard to the procurement of the testimonies heard, "we can conclude that both the approval requirements of the undertakings, as well as the procedures for the procurement of the service, have placed an entry barrier on those undertakings which, by their size or experience, have not been able to opt for approval, which has undoubtedly reduced the number of tenderer undertakings and thus the possibility of higher quality at a lower price". And he also said, "To all this must be added – Mr Becerra has referred to this in an important way – the important role that the dining service plays in the school sphere and that it must be characterized by a dual role, education and the provision of a public service, not forgetting also the commitments that the Basque Government has made with regard to the sustainable development objectives of the United Nations in relation to responsible public procurement". From there, recommendations were made on the decentralised management of the service, on the price of the service, on the drafting of specifications, on prior tenders, on batch division, on contracting courts, on ex post control of contracts and on sanctions, i.e. issues clearly described in the opinion and important issues on which the Government will have to work, of course. We, in view of the initiative, of Mr Becerra's motion, made a complete amendment. We knew we'd be able to find a point of agreement. We wanted to have talked about taking the appropriate measures to implement the recommendations in the immediate future, and we also talked about three months for a report on measures and actions in this regard, technical, legal and administrative issues necessary for the implementation of an optimal school dining management system. I believe that we have reached an important agreement, because what we do among all the groups is to see – and this is what their first point says – that the current system of direct management of school canteens needs changes and improvements in their procedures of award, transparency and control. Well, that's what we talked about. That's clear enough. It speaks of a maximum of four months in relation to an information process to contrast all this, all those needs, to put them black on white and work on them. It talks about the construction of kitchens in those centres that request it, that has been talked about on other occasions in Parliament, we will see where these requests go, but, in any case, there they are and they are remembered. It is true, and it is also important, that, within these four months and in collaboration with the agents of the educational community, this analysis of the different models of decentralized management of the school canteens is completed and, from there, after that four months, a new drafting of the regulations is agreed that will be incorporated already in the coming season, the course 2020-2021. I think it's an important deal. Of course, we thank everyone for the provision and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u45	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of the EH team, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u46	Yes, good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I will have to thank, not only my colleague José Ramón Becerra, but also the social agents who have been behind all this, the associations that have not only been participating, but pushing, fighting, debating, often even getting angry. So, today I think it's a good deal, just because it's the resolution of a lot of fighting and work time. The workers, too, of course. He's been talking a lot over the past few years, even in the past few months, about school stations, be catering -presification case, for the last change the EAE Education Department has released, for social dynamics that have been created in different countries or villages. We have a basis for nutrient and local development in the Basque Country, and we've worked to transform restaurants into ecological, healthy, educational stations in different institutions and social dynamics. Our goal is to transform our modern dining-line into the dining-room, jumping from the dining room into the dining room, always the right of deciding on the model of each school and of autonomy upon its model. It's time to build a new and independent school station, and it's in our hands today. Today's pattern is exhausted and we'll have to make a difference between us all. I think we all agree on that. 2000 years later, a concrete model of the school station was defined. The decision which had been made at that time was taken in a very particular context. The menu was very small, but most of the schools didn't provide dinner services. That was why, with the decision taken in the year 2000, the purpose of extending the dining-room services to as many schools as possible was possible. Anyway, it's obvious that the situation has changed and that the initial goal was appropriate, and that he's completely perverted by the power he's acquired by the catering-pres. That's why, almost 20 years later, we think that model is completely exhausted. The monopoly of Castering, the diminution of the quality of food, the impenetrability of schools to define the pattern, the preparation of the workers' conditions; they have become a perfectly independent zone. We've often said that our dining pattern in our education system is exhausted. It's over. We've been through it, and that's why we need all the complications to make another pattern. That's what we've contributed to today's proposal. Besides, we think it's a very positive contribution. If we want to produce different results, we'll have to do things differently. If we need different results, the things we will have to do, indeed, will have to be different. They're not worth the same recipes as always. On account of this, the right of each school to determine and define its own project, is made for new examples. We believe that we must understand schools in the process of education, and consequently we must define them in the school education project. It's been 20 years from a dining model that's already expired. 20 years that they have given for a long time, indeed. But, above all, because there has been an important sociological change, since the beginnings in which it was practically to guarantee food, equality to the children, even transported, today the jantoki has become an absolute space of assistance, assistanceist can be said, where it is difficult to educate, where the quality of the service itself, both of the spaces and of the food, has been questioned over and over again. Today is the time to move on, it is the time to work together, and Euskal Herria Bildu proves once again that it is in that. Of course, we can't forget that professionals who work in restaurants are an indispensable column. In this new example of the schools' English, we cannot forget that the educational character of the people who work must be admitted to them. They're educational because the work they develop is educational. They must agree with the school project, as they are in part, like the rest of the community, and have a worthy and suitable condition of work in the model we discuss today. We were saying it last week, but we've been saying it for the last few months and years. Today, after the commission of inquiry, we finally open a window after closing a door, and today we can say it's a good day. We can say it's the beginning of the next stage. And we say that because Euskal Herria Bildu leaves his proposals, his amendments to add to the margin, he leaves hairs in the catera, but we want to contribute, we want to enter into this agreement, because it seems to us that it is an important step, although it could have been a more ambitious one. We all assume that this model is exhausted, that there is an urgent need to change it – it puts it at the first point of the amendment – and that the school community needs to be heard. The theory we know. As my colleague Becerra said, the whole theory of the jantokis is known to us, but we need to get to practice. Of course the dining rooms can be and are, in fact, an opportunity. They must be an opportunity for the benefit not only of those who eat every day in the dining room, but also of the community, of the families, of the people who produce food around, also of their workers, and let us not forget that the dining rooms can be a huge opportunity to create the already famous territorial development, that development that we so much like to mention, but that in the end it is only an economic development for all parties, without leaving any out. Therefore, we understand that the agreement that we have reached here today is important to start the house on the foundations, not on the roof, as hitherto. Let's make a house from below. We have to count on all the agents, I don't think I have to say that, that's because we have to promote a diverse model, a participatory, educational model, a model, and, in collaboration with local administrations, we think there is a huge opportunity for work. I also have to make a recognition, even a thank you. I will thank Iñaki Lazaruster, who preceded me in the previous legislature at Euskal Herria Bildu. I also want to acknowledge the four pilot projects that we forget to highlight, but have been there for the last few years fighting – I would say in a brave way – against the current. They made a risky bet, but little by little these pilot projects have been carried out, which, by the way, have already ceased to be pilot projects. We have on the table what has been done, what has been done well, what has been done wrong. We need to make a reading of these experiences to be valued, to see if you can or cannot copy them, and, of course, help them to stop being a pilot and finally be something else. Tonight we meet with what Podemos introduced and try to improve. Catering's example will probably remain. However, you need to guarantee that the allocation process is done with a strong transparency and control. We need to open the options for those who don't want the casting pattern, so that they can develop another decregized pattern, place, proper pattern, and autonomous as much as possible. All this must be quite consistent and consistent, whatever example it may be, it is absolutely necessary that there should be a personal protection, and we shall certainly follow it. Besides, it's very important that all the organizations which are to be involved and the community of education should produce a site for interaction. We propose two different points: On the one hand, we propose that the model of the system should be deliberated in a general manner, and, on the other hand, the production of the dining-room steps on the local level. In order to answer local needs, they must be tables to manage local patterns. To this we add one thing, which is essential, which is already admitted by this legislature: On the other hand, it was a matter of course that he had been asked to start the real process of building kitchens in all the schools that they want. There's not enough in a report that doesn't have enough accuracy to run seven kitchens. The kitchens have to be as general as possible at most of the schools, and that's what we'll be working on. The creation of the kitchens is necessary, especially that of those seven that have already been requested. Today, in fact, I think it is a moment of congratulations for all groups. We think it's a good deal, but it's not worth approving in this house motions that are not going to be met, so we're back to putting the goal of continuing to watch. On the first point: we understand that improvements in award, transparency and control would almost not even have to be picked up at one point; it should be so, but good. In the second we talk about the specifications that will condition who can and who cannot work in those dining rooms, absolutely necessary. The issue of new kitchens has just been commented on: that communities that need it and request it are guaranteed. The opening up of decentralised management with the cooperation of local administrations seems to us to be necessary and, in addition, a good opportunity for work. And, of course, the working conditions of women workers, who have also been mentioned here, because they often question themselves and are not where they should be. Euskal Herria Bildu is not only predisposed to continue working, but we believe that this issue is for the benefit of those who use it every day, of boys and girls, but also of society in general. Let's wait until he doesn't stay on one more motion. It is a tool that the Government should take advantage of because it will be effective, provided it is participatory, collaborative and coordinated with the actors. And, of course, I think I have said this more often, we understand that a country pact on this issue cannot be even questionable. There, of course, we'll meet. Finally, today it is shown that those who continue to do so often face what the Government does or does not do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u47	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u48	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing a motion by Elkarrekin We are dealing with the changes required by the current model of management of school canteens. Over the course of more than a year we have been debating and listening in committee, both to related companies and to representatives of education from different governments on this subject, the management of school dining rooms. The last debate we had on 10 October, when we discussed the final opinion of the committee of inquiry on the award of the school dining service. After this debate, all groups draw our own conclusions, and debate about the changes required by the current dining management model is, in a way, the closure of this period. It is the closure of a stage in which we analyze all events or assumptions after the commission of inquiry. We analyzed what improvements can be made or looked for other models or management alternatives, in order to improve this system among all, because since the beginning of the commission of inquiry there had already been something on which we all agreed: changes had to be made to the system. That is why I say that this period would be the culmination of a stage that will start another one that, thanks to a complaint there for 2013, will at least serve us to improve and make a more rigorous and control system. And not only among those who are here, together with the Department of Education, but this must also be done, as the amendment says, together with the educational community, with their support and collaboration, together with all those who affect and concern them. Because, as we well know, there are educational institutions – indeed, the least, but there are, up to now – that have decentralized management, and therefore they must also be counted on. In addition, these pilot experiences that were made in some centers where they kept their own kitchens with their cooks, being themselves the ones in charge of purchasing the products, can serve as an example and platform to know first hand this model of service, which has worked so far, what not and the difficulties that it may have. In this way the department must be found, in helping and enabling different options to those centres that choose not to have direct management, in order that these centres can decide what type of dining service they want to have, something that we have expressed repeatedly in the debates of the committee of inquiry. It is clear, and we share this with the proposing group, that changes must be made to the system. The system needs to be modernized, updated, provided it is to include improvements. One of them is the practice of hiring the school dining service, which is one of the things that needs to be changed, because it is certainly better, both in the award procedures and in transparency and control. The Department of Education, with the help of the Basque Competition Authority, designed new brochures aimed at promoting competition, removing entry barriers, and shielded the brochures in the face of a possible concertation of companies to correct this situation, which led to an artificial increase in the definitive prices established. In addition, Ms. Celaá's appearance also explained the changes she made to make a modification to the school catering award service, which would probably have worked if they had not been appealed and could not be implemented. I would like to say that things have been done, that work has been done and that changes and improvements have been made to the system in order to improve it. It is clear that this has not been enough and we must continue to work towards an optimal level. That is why we believe that other management models must be regulated, but above all that they should also take care of families, without any economic harm to them, regardless of which model they choose. Even so, we cannot forget, nor can we forget, that the service of direct management school dining rooms, although it is improveable in some respects, as we have said, has been very good. One thing is the award to companies, which is the issue we are dealing with so far, and another is the service itself, the real service that has been provided to public educational institutions. In those terms, the direct management model has worked, and not recognizing it would be denying the evidence. Except for the damage to the administration, there has been no economic harm to families, nor to the quality of service, nor in particular to the food security of pupils, which seems to be of course, but it seems to me that it is fundamental to the tranquility of the educational community and, above all, of the parents of those families. There has not been a single case of food poisoning throughout this period, nor has there been a single case in any public centre; unfortunately, the same cannot be said in the concerted centres or in the ikastolas. For this reason, what is clear to the Socialists is that, regardless of the service for which each school chooses, whether it is a direct service or going to be decentralized, food security is one of the elements that must be absolutely guaranteed. We must pay attention to the importance of this service to the whole Basque society, for which we must ensure that it works properly, because it also guarantees real family reconciliation. The criteria and principles that must govern any catering service must be food security, nutritional quality, proper service and good working conditions for workers, as well as incorporating greater caution and being more rigorous and demanding when developing the corresponding leaflets, and, of course, ensuring that service every day in all schools. In short, I am very pleased that we have been able to reach a unanimous agreement on this point, because this is something for which we must all work and we cannot agree on the basis of an issue such as the catering service which directly affects the families of the Autonomous Community and education as a whole. Man, I'm not going to be as optimistic as Mr. Becerra, who was kind of telling us that good dining management is a solution to the problems of the planet. I'm going to be a little more humble, but it seems to me that it has to have four fundamental features: transparent, effective, healthy and safe. That'd be enough for us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u49	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good noon. In the 11th of October, we have a discussion of the administration of school stations which Mr. Becerra has been introduced by an interpelation made to the Chief of Uriart. Today the dining rooms of our schools are in charge of the Board of Education, their everyday and managing. You serve more than 900,000 menus every day. And in this service the health and well-being of the receivers are certainly the chief priority. One large majority eats food prepared elsewhere, but about 25% also has lunch prepared in the kitchens of the school. The Board of Education has never intended to give a standardized service; it has always intended to serve a moderated service, and to be a service adapted to its wants. And this is a clear indication of the fact that in this legislature, owing to another proposal, which is supported in the dining-room management model, in December 2017, a deputy of the dining-rooms was formed to make new patterns and to work around them with the representatives of all the agents. I'm still trying to develop the type of direct management, but that doesn't mean you're looking at other models of your own, if they're always legalally compatible. So, in this medium today we're going to accept, we've set up a four-month term for the Board of Education to finish the examination that is beginning to work around different models of management. These other examples, as I have said before, must be juridically instructive and legal, and of course the system which has hitherto been concerned with food and all its guarantees in the world of health must be preserved with certainty. The food has also been called bearable and near. And we agree, too, that the more healthy and more patient the nourishment is, the better. And even when we insert those factors in our menus, we agree completely. We are also agreed, as I have said before, that there may be other examples beyond the present model of management; but this does not mean that the management of the present day is not good. It can always be improved as well as all other examples, but it does not mean that what is at present is not good. And by this desire of improvement we have agreed the first point which we received in the middle-point: make better and change, if necessary. But that doesn't mean that the management system of the restaurants we're in today is either just as another spokesman has said that it's over, or that it's over, or, after all, it's bad. We don't agree with that, we believe that what's done today is done well, but in this world, like everything else, we're willing to do it, and we're ready for it, too. To do this, we have no problem in improving the technical differences that are now made. We see it all right from our team, but it's good to see you too. All this we have an open process of information with the educational team unit. We also think that we propose to do it in a fairly acceptable time, for we have set up four months' time for it. As for the management of the dining rooms, as I said before, the day of fun is marked by security and the health of the users, and we believe that this is what we must always be present in all the progress we make to improve. It cannot be denied that the wills of families are also to be considered, that the wills of families are changed, and that it is permitted to require of the service which our children eat every day, and which is given in the dining-rooms, and to propose, or to desire, that this service may be managed in another way. If he chose to prepare food at the school itself, a school, or an educational unit, perhaps in those new models, this is also mentioned by the elections of the schools, the councils should have a direct intervention. I think the councils and local institutions have a great deal to say, and we can't predict that this pattern will be possible. I believe that he has also his difficulties, if the councils now have a certain amount of responsibility for the maintenance of our schools, washing, and so on, and he has his difficulties. I don't know what kind of formula it would be to use today to get that management from the councils. It is a question that creates many doubts, and I believe today that if this agreement is really intended to find improvements in the management of the dining rooms, as I have said, it must be carefully done, and that there is at least every legal guarantee. So if from that autonomy, if a school were to decide to offer them food prepared for it in her dining room, then we've got it in the middle of the room that they'll cook. Also, this same week, the Board of Education has also planned to plan the infrastructure plan that the Board has introduced to the board. I think it's another thing to put it into value in the agreement we got today that all this analysis and this process that's going to be shared. The matter will be shared with all the operators of education, and the conclusions which result from it are required to be received in a new regulation, as well as all the influences it can have, and above all, as I have said before, a guarantee of all the jurists and security, and without any influence on the conditions of the workingers there. I want to applaud the agreement today. I want to thank the council, Mr. Becerra, for having made it clear from the first moment that he really wanted to make an arrangement with the groups we support the government. It's also good to have EH Collect and the Popular party together with this agreement we've made today. We're always ready to take part in the work that leads us to improve. We shall certainly see what results are derived from all these processs of reflection, but it is quite clear that we do not think the present system of management is bad. It must be improved, like everything else, and with it other models of management can be combined, if each school and that local administration were to be a part of the process, and so decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The answer's next, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours. ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u52	Well, it is undeniable that this system has fulfilled its role, as Mr. Pastor said. It is true that all systems, all forms of governance have their high moments and have their moments of change and renewal; a system that gives 93,000 menus, for it is evident that it has not emerged from nothing, that it has been made through evolution and that, as the resolution that we all signed, needs changes and improvements. But it is also true that he has fulfilled his role in the sense that as a unique model he has come to where he could go. There are now social demands that require other types of models that are more decentralized, more participatory, more sustainable, why not, and healthier, and I believe that these social demands must also be given a solution. And it cannot be denied that in all this path that this system has had, for it has also had its issues controversial, and more than controversial, I would say, and neither can it be denied and it is there. I agree with Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe that this agreement could have been more ambitious, and of course our group would have liked it. Here we meet with several questions. EH Bildu has a school dining model, Elkarrekin We can have a school dining model, but it's our model. It is up to the Government to negotiate and agree with all educational agents on the model that the country will have. We can't supplant him. In that regard, we could have gone further in defining the characteristics of this model, but I believe that it is up to the Government to do so. We just have to have a road map, we just have to tell the government where the steps have to go, what steps they have to take. And the difficulties, Mrs. Beragon, of course there are difficulties in renewing and overcoming this system, but the ambition of the Government will be reflected in it, how it will overcome these difficulties in order to make a new pattern. What I do believe is that this is the time to change. Mr Pastor said that we have been talking about this issue for a year; the debate on the dining model comes from behind, from at least 2016 and even before. It's been four years. This is the time, because, as Mrs Berasaluze said, the working table with the social partners came to an end, because this year the government's contract expires, and because we have also passed the stage of the committee of inquiry, which, as Mr Barrio has said, has moved its recommendations, which I believe should be met, but that is also in the hands of the government. What I do not believe is that this is closed here, Mr Pastor, what I do believe is that the work of the opposition groups is to continue to monitor the Government's action properly, to comply with the road map it is signing today. And then we'll see if it actually closes and we're moving on to a new stage, or if we're still worried about this. I would not like to end without thanking, and it is true that I have forgotten in my first speech, the role of the social partners. I think they showed us the way, families, through EHIGE, social agents like food justice or even unions like LAB went from protest to proposal, and I think they were the first agents to take that step. They could have stayed in the protest and yet went further. In that sense, they were ambitious, they were propository, and I believe that the word that should remain today is that: ambition. But not the misunderstood ambition to solve a problem as it is, but the ambition to achieve the best school model for our children. Because, while you, Mr Pastor, are right when you say that the school model or the school dining rooms do not solve all the problems on the planet, it is true that, in some, they help. They help improve the economy, help in terms of its sustainability... But we need to be aware of the importance of food by focusing on children. Food is fundamental to defining your personal development, your intellectual development, your health and even your way of seeing the world. And I tried to say that at the end of my speech. We also play that our sons and daughters, that the young people of this country think of the food world in terms of a four-cheese pizza or think of it in terms of a beehive with beehives of Toulouse, or of Idiazabal cheese and limbo. And that is what we are playing right now; not only the future of our children and their health, but also the way we see food in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u53	Quiet, please. Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Anybody wanna talk? Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote together Podemos, Euskal Popula, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect and Eubert Fans have signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u54	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Motius, a member of Laura Garrido Knörre, a member of the Popula team, presented to him on account of the failure of the euscal families. Discipline and final resolution. Your turn, Mrs Garrido, is to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, chiefs of departments, fellow members of the legislature. A proposition has been proposed by Popular Party to discuss the family police, considering that this government has not done too much on this subject. And I think it is the fourth or fifth motion, and this motion follows after an interpelation, and we spoke of the last interpelation, of the failure of the Government in this matter. It is plain, as you all know, and it is supposed, that, since the Popular party has introduced so many enterprises, this subject is of the highest importance to the Popular Party. That's how it's obvious in several of the initiatives you've represented. Besides, when we've had the exact opportunity, for instance, when the budgets have been negotiated, we've presented specific corrections to increase the budgets of the family police. We must here say, for instance, that when we talk about budgets, this government has not kept its commitments and has not filled up the amount added to priorities. As I said, it is already a classic for the People's Party to bring to this Parliament initiatives in relation to the family, in this case a motion resulting from an inquiry. In the last question we spoke clearly of the failure of the Basque Government in relation to family policies. I am sorry that the adviser is not here in a debate that I think needs to be interesting for her. I imagine that the councillors and Mr Erkoreka, who is also following me very closely, will then move everything thoroughly. In the previous inquiry we were talking about whether it was the intention of the Basque Government...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u56	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u57	...take a turn in family policies. And already in the last one we had to speak clearly of finding a failure. A failure of a government that has arrived late and wrong, a government that has had an absolute lack of leadership on this issue, of ambition. The circumstances and the reality itself of the Basque Country, the reality itself and the problem of Basque families have overtaken it. As I said, this is an absolutely priority issue for the People's Party, which has been reflected in numerous initiatives. I will go directly to the motion to explain the content of it and focus on those points that we have considered most relevant. It is true that there is a coincidence in some of them with other groups, although, since an analysis of the motion as a whole has been carried out on the whole of it, it has not been possible to reach an agreement. But it is true that in some specific points there is a coincidence between all the groups. So, well, I also hope that, at the time of the vote, we can all be flexible so that, at least, there is a demand approach to the Basque Government in a matter where things have clearly not been done well. It referred to the shortcomings of the Basque Government in various areas, to budget failures where the items relating to birth aid and conciliation aid have been substantially increased by the amendments tabled by the People's Party, and some of them accepted, as a result of the budgetary negotiation. We have to regret that the Basque Government has failed to fulfil these commitments to allocate the money which was also allocated to the Basque families, because of its own inaction, because it was unable to approve the necessary instruments to be able to implement all these aids and therefore to implement the amounts allocated. But not only that, but the Government has also been very slow in adopting the necessary instruments that have shaped the framework to promote concrete measures to support Basque families. I am referring to the IV Family Plan – the third one ended its existence in 2015 – the evaluation of the III Family Plan itself, I am referring to concrete measures, measures that have come late. To date, the only effective measure for support to families that has been adopted has been to increase an annuality for the second child, from two to three years. Casualty, Madam Counsellor – now I take advantage of the fact that it has been incorporated into the debate – this group presents some concrete initiative on aspects which the Government in theory considered crucial, but which, in practice, has obviously not proved to be so, because of its own inaction and because, in the end, they have not materialized in concrete and effective measures, in this case, for Basque families, and the Government accelerates the processing of the decree on voluntary surpluses. We already told him in the interpellation that, obviously, that decree has arrived late and bad. I have to remind you that the announcement you made on March 21, 2018. He announces it in this rostrum, also on the subject of the monographic debate of families. This Government likes to announce many things from this rostrum, because it not only announced this measure, which is supposed to be the Government's flagship measure, but also the reform of the protection system in the Basque Country. It is not the issue, but, indeed, it is an issue that the Government also attached great importance to and, for today, it is an issue that is not resolved. You too in this rostrum announced to us an initiative of the groups. But, well, let's go to the subject we're dealing with. Recently, as I say, two days ago, the decree of voluntary surpluses for workers is approved. Not in the public sphere, because obviously, as Mr Erkoreka told us the other day, they have their specific regulation. But we have to say, Madam Counsellor, that, despite the time they have spent drafting this decree, despite the fact that the draft decree has also been informed by the relevant bodies, and despite many of the warnings they have given, this Government has ignored them. One of them was corrected, but it was corrected once this issue came out in the press, once some social alarm was generated, because, obviously, a social alarm is generated, when things are not done right from the Basque Government, and when additional requirements and restrictions are set for workers regarding the regime that is applicable to civil servants; limitations that had to do with the fact that if you had a housekeeper at home, you could not accept this leave, that if you took the child to a nursery you could not take that leave... Another limitation that we also find somewhat unfair, and I think it can also be dissuasive that in the end many parents can accept this measure, is that the self-employed are forced to hire a person. I want to say that, of course, this measure can be absolutely dissuasive, as can all the limitations for this conciliation measure to be really effective in the end. You have corrected in the decree, in the end, the issue of the housekeeper. They obviously already had the warning, and despite having the warning, they established that requirement, almost to the end, that it was difficult to distinguish, when one had a household employee, whether that household employee was engaged in childcare or housework. You will also understand that it established a very unfair situation for those who have – and obviously may have – an unlicensed employee and therefore not contributing to Social Security. But, despite the successive warnings of your reports, you have issued a decree that is absolutely discriminatory, which establishes very clear discrimination by setting limits and requirements for workers in the private sphere with regard to the regime that has been established in the public sphere. And it is that – taking advantage that Mr Erkoreka is here – we do not understand that there are differences also in the duration of this measure. I mean, if you're an official, 18 weeks; if you're a private sector worker, 16 weeks. We don't understand that differentiation. The other day, Mr Erkoreka, the Councillor for Public Governance and Self-Government, told us that the civil servants' regime is different from the workers' regime. Indeed, man, but what the Government has to do is to ensure in an area where there is already discrimination between private sector workers and civil servants. I know you're an official, or so I think, and that's fine with me. In the end, however, the aim is to alleviate any differences or discrimination that may arise from the regulations and regulations adopted by the Basque Government itself. Therefore, at a very specific point in our motion, we call for the elimination of any discrimination that may exist with regard to the regulation of paternity surpluses in the private or public sphere. I think this is a fundamental aspect, I think we also agree with the Elkarrekin Podemos group and the EH Bildu group on this point. And, therefore, I think it is a criticism, moreover, shared. I want to say that it is not a question that the People's Party has put on the table, but it is a shared issue, and you too have received criticism in this regard from various entities and associations. Another important issue is that we continue to increase the amounts of birth aid. I believe that the Government here too has failed to comply with the forecasts of its own plans. The III Family Plan and the Family Law already set the goal of convergence with Europe. Convergence has not arrived nor is it expected. Moreover, the aid that was planned – as I pointed out earlier – the only one that has been approved until last Tuesday, the increase in that year's annuality of one year for the second child, was planned for 2014 and arrived in 2018. This, therefore, is yet another example of how the Government has taken family policies; of course, it has not taken them seriously at all. Another of the points that we collect, and that Elkarrekin Podemos and the EH Bildu group also collect, is the elaboration of a strategy. We believe that it is necessary, there is an imperative need to address the demographic challenge, making a diagnosis of the situation and implementing public policies with budget funding that is already foreseen, and also with specific implementation deadlines. Another important point is that we should make progress in the area of co-responsibility and conciliation. In this regard, we have also felt it appropriate to reintroduce – because many of these issues are repetitive – all that has to do with advisory measures and grant lines for the implementation of conciliation plans in companies, and also recognition of those companies concerned in the field of conciliation. Finally, at this point, we have agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party that the Kontzilia website is set up as an effective tool for supporting and accompanying companies in their reconciliation. In short, Commissioner, a new initiative that has been necessary in view of the poor balance of this Government in family policies. It is clear that you have stood up in the people's government. In this rostrum, various advisers, including you and the Lehendakari himself, have told us that this Government was the people's government, because it placed people's problems at the centre of its political action. For, of course, in the area of families and family policies, quite the contrary, that is, nothing further from reality. I think you guys here have a clear suspense. I am not going to say a zero either, but they have arrived late, they have gone wrong, and therefore, apart from criticising that the measures that have been put in place are clearly insufficient, we also have to criticise that some have arrived late and have gone wrong, such as, I repeat, what has to do with the regulation of voluntary surpluses. In that regard, we urge you once again to rectify in another decree. We have already urged you to rectify this morning in the decree regulating residential centres. So, I think also, you have to reflect on how things are being done from your apartment. This is the proposal of the People's Party, I will now be attentive to the considerations of the other groups, but I believe that there are points that are coincident, and in that sense I appeal to generosity. She will also be generous among the various proposals. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u58	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u59	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chiefs of departments, good days again. Together, the Podemos team values the roles of families to help. It's very important to expand and to deep down the discussion about it, so we welcome all the policies that have been encouraged by the family. But in this speech I am going to reaffirm what we have already said and, therefore, you already know. First, I will explain what the meaning of the concept of family for us is, in order to help to expand the view. It's this one. When we talk about family in Elkarrekin We can, we talk about people who decide to live together or share everyday life; who decide to take care of themselves in basic needs, but also in emotional ones, needs that are covered in the most diverse subjects, education, health, principles, culture or economic support; people who are accompanied in joys and are to face the pains and difficulties; people who are being the life jacket of a socio-economic model that very often generates precariousness, inequality and injustice; people who sustain life, especially those who need the most care and today we want to put at the center of this debate, girls, children, adolescents, adults, older people, people with functional diversity and those who, transiently or permanently, need especially others to live decently. Family is, in short, that support that carries a very large weight, that carries with all the essential tasks for social reproduction and the support of life. A group of people who, precisely because they are a supporter of life, are going to suffer and reap the greatest consequences, both from a possible economic crisis – which seems to be imminent – and from a system of protection and precarious employment that is not responding to the reality of a demographic transformation in this country. Demographic challenge that is mentioned every 10 minutes by the institutions, but for which there are no serious, comprehensive, concrete or clear proposals by any institution; only specific measures, big ads and makeup doses. Starting from this concept, which certainly is not the same as that of the proposer, we reaffirm ourselves in the need to support families, to address the demographic challenge and to improve the social protection of this country in which we live, with a look at the good practices and policies of the north; with a look of progress and with a look of expansion of coverage, not of cuts, Mrs Garrido, lords of the groups that support the Government, neither here nor in any other institution. So, together with the Podemos team, we will continue to defend economic support for families. But economic support isn't enough. Because, in addition, it is essential to address with courage, with a head, with the capacity to innovate and, above all, to listen to citizens, other policies that ensure that all lives and people who develop them can be full, can be life worth living; that they do not force women, mothers, grandmothers, sisters, nieces or daughters to condemn their lives to care; that they look at girls, children, adolescents, that they do not invisibly protect them, that they do not block them; that they make it easier for them to be subject to rights, which is, in theory, what we recognize. And all this goes to implementing strategies, but strategies that promote actions from different departments, that facilitate coordination of actions and resources in different institutions, but that are also innovative and transformative. Strategies that address the demographic challenge in all complexity and go beyond the current family strategy, which is not implemented, or a family pact that you have only been able to make among yourselves, well, with the employer, and in which you have left out very important actors and actresses, and women, do not forget, in the corner. From Elkarrekin We believe that such a strategy, that addressing the improvement of the living conditions of Basque families implies generosity and courage. It also means that we are able to look for agreements, but that seems complex today. Because Mrs Garrido puts on the table a proposal that she herself has already explained and that she lacks a fund that we can share in many respects, because we are different political groups. Because it is not good, Mrs Garrido, to make a speech defending the family and at the same time to criminalize the impoverished, because families are also in a situation of poverty. And what you do, for example, by saying that you have to force people to register themselves in the aid, is something that makes the families of this country, all of them, weakly favored. We share, however, from that generous attitude which we believe must be taken, the content of some point in your proposal. We also share with the PNV and the PSE the need to address the demographic challenge, but, of course, in depth, with capacity, with content, not with the proposal that is addressed in your motion, which is why we are presenting an amendment in this line, an amendment that we are going to ask you to vote on. We also share, Mrs. Garrido, the need to assess how laws impact families, but what are families and how do we implement this? We prefer to evaluate with a specific perspective in which there is methodology: talking about women, talking about a gender perspective, talking about girls, children, adolescents, talking about how they impact on older people or the ability to emancipate youth. You start from a somewhat monochromatic view of what a family is and are obsessed with increasing aids that both Emakunde and Elkarrekin We may consider perverse, because they perpetuate gender roles. We also share that it cannot and should not be built through the laws, let alone through the laws, citizens of first and second. That is why, in our amendment, we also take up the fourth point of your amendment, which talks about equality in the private and public spheres, but we broaden it and we also talk about equality between women and men. On the other hand, we fully share Mrs Kortajarena's amendment and will vote in favour of it. Of course, we could have worked on a transaction that could enrich this proposal, but for what, if nothing will come of it. There does not seem to be much intention to move, and that is clear when we read the PNV and PSE amendment, because there are a number of issues. That Mrs. Garrido put something on the family observatory has a pass, but you guys, really? Sainz Lanchares, Director of Family Policy and Functional Diversity, signed a document on 4 June 2019 in which he said: "The service to be developed by the Basque Observatory for Families at this time is not carried out either by the staff of the Department of Employment and Social Affairs or by collaborating entities. Work is under way to provide a structure that will enable it to carry out the functions assigned to it by Decree 309/2010." 2010, it's 2019. Does it not give them a bit of blush to put in their amendment that the Basque Parliament urges the government to give preferential development to something that would legally have to be in place since 2010? Really? The second is that you do not put anything that you are not doing, anything that is already mandated by this House, or anything that you have not committed to, either from the laws that you do not stop failing to do, or from the plans that seem to never develop. For us to improve the lives of families, we also need to take care of having decent and quality public services, to have a developed social service system. And that you're not doing. From Elkarrekin We can, with the generous attitude we have, have wanted to make an initiative based on consensus and what the regulations say. And that is why we propose that all departments and institutions implement a strategy to address the demographic challenge. But really. One that is executed; that you agree with someone beyond yourself and the employer; that the strategy starts with a diagnosis, because it would make no sense to do so otherwise, but that this diagnosis comes to this House and the political groups we have the capacity to make contributions; and that it also collects contributions from those who know, from those who are on the street, because, if they do not realize, citizenship always goes several steps ahead of the institutions; that it integrates the principle of the best interests of childhood and adolescence, because that still does not include any law and, even if they have a commitment signed by this House, they are not fulfilling it; but also that it transversates the gender perspective, because the measurement of impact, even if it is in the law, usually forgets them, both groups and the government. We consider this to be a crucial element. We need to think about how this is going to affect women, but we also need to think about the fact that all the actions that take place in the family area need to be put on purple glasses. We want that strategy to be evaluated, we want the impact on key groups to meet the demographic challenge. We also call for an end to the distinction between the public and the private, but with measures that are not perverse, as I said, also talking about equality between women and men. In any case, this strategy must be budgeted. But not only to increase economic aid, as Mrs Garrido proposes, but also to develop other tools that are useful for eliminating cuts in all these years and for implementing other policies that promote the provision of public and quality care-oriented services. Services that will bring with them the creation of jobs, greater opportunities for reconciliation and co-responsibility, in short, greater opportunities for people to build the life project they want, not the one they have no choice but to choose. For us to talk about improving the situation of families in Euskadi is to take a broad look and a generous view, and I repeat that I believe that voting on our amendment is the best option. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u61	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, good noon to all. In fact, when these discussions about family police come from the hands of the Populative Party, one has a feeling like déjà vu, and sometimes it is difficult to make a new contribution. However, there are a couple of elements in the discussion of today, I believe, which will allow us to go on that way, and I believe, as we did yesterday at the Society Politics Committee, that it is very important to discuss the subject in a context. You will remember, because it was highly famous, that from January 18, 2018, there is a family debt in this community, you who are signed by that agreement, the President was taken into possession of certain commitments, which ought to insure the practice of the whole government. After that, after the treaty, IV. The family plan came to a new plan, which, by the way, ought to have been arranged with that family authority, which, in its turn, makes a fairly clear diagnosis about the Basque family and family police, and it is a pity that the subsequent action and government should not be lined up with it. Two years later, what we have in this context is not to mention. UNICEF reminded us yesterday that the inspiration of the treaty has not reached the reform of the most important tools in order to protect the families which are most likely, and that it has not reached the reform of the revenue to ensure revenues; and what is in 19 months is, I don't know how many times a parental consent has been announced, or rather a licence, or a new donation of the contract. That's what we have, but I'll talk about it later. I think, in fine, that when the lights, the focuss, and the absence of any importance, have no trace of the change of paradigm, which must have come from the hand of the treaty. The focus is, again, placed in measures which serve little to establish new equilibriums for the efficacy and life. But there is a new element in discussion today, demography strategy. President Urkullu had announced the intention of bringing this strategy into a general discussion of politics. It's the same nail that proposes the proposal. It is also brought by groups supporting the government, and it is probable that with different motives and widely different schemes, Podemos is also corrected in his correction. And I have to correct it, Mrs Garrido: I didn't propose the demography strategy. I'd like to think that this is a sign that the centralness of the birth rate and the age of the neurasis of politics are about to end. I'd like to assume that you've noticed wrong readings, fragments, disorganising, self-interesting, unjust, but above all, it's not the kind of strategy to focus only on birth-times. In this sense, I should like to remind you that our party, concerned with the introduction of the treaty and those who were told about it, had asked for a monographic pleno, and that our party had clearly explained that we were in the presence of a paradigma change. The woman planned to change and move, and that was unstoppable, and that she had no steps back. And in that plenary we remind the lehendakari Urkullu that this country has some great challenges, which have to do with elements that are mentioned and not mentioned when talking about demography; but, above all, it has to do with good living, it has to do with good living than with birth, it has to do with balances and imbalances, it has to do with breaking an unjust system and moving together towards other more just and sustainable models, with models that, as Amaia Pérez Orozco says, allow good living; it has to do with guaranteeing and generating conditions to develop projects of life and happiness; it has to do with protecting and caring. And it is that, as Amaia Pérez Orozco told us, there are no good times for life." In this sense, if the intention is a strategy of demography, the government must remember that the Basque Country has brought a permanent and just strategy of both axis-axis into this plinographic document. On the one hand, the measures taken to establish a new balance between productive and refractivating social care-making, and we presented a series of public policies, directed to reform a decent life of people. We brought them to 46 resolution funding. A set of measures for good living. Proposals that arise from an intersectoral feminist perspective and that seek a pact between generations. So many different proposals. Many of them we agreed with you, but they remained unfinished. And what we were asking for in our proposal was to do with you, with the government, two years later. If it is not so, if you have no intention of fulfilling it, as we have already stated in certain cases, there will be least of all in this new strategy of demology, which you would like to design. In any case, when you get mixed up in the definition of this strategy, there are a couple of things that cannot be forgotten. One has been mentioned before in the discussion of the retreats, and in the design of this strategy, is inevitably sued from different parts of the places, from the different parts of the country, from the Eranya Pérez Oro, the Feminist movement, Aubixa Foundation. We ask our country to open this profound reflection about care, which must necessarily be opened. We may further predict that there is this strategy in which the state is to be disinfected, and in that transition which has to be made, to bring proposals made by members like the House of Jule into this parliament. And, inevitably, the head physician of the Artola generouss, you will have to make all these movements with a feminist movement. As for the strategy, I would also propose a few words to this new decree, and we have often discussed it, and often. For the last time, I think, when our team brought this discussion, just in June, because the government decided not to fill up a measure agreed on the monographic. The diagnosis is about it too, it is shared, and we've shared the patches around it, and they're known. Are gehiago, I am going to refer to the diagnosis contained in the IV Family Plan, which literally says: "Given the centrality that the economic benefits aimed at this purpose – that of conciliation – have in a strategy aimed at investing in families and children, as the one promoted by this Government, it is necessary to analyse in some detail the impact and functioning of the same, because this diagnosis that these types of policies have, both in their general conception and in their concrete application, a series of limitations that recommend a relatively broad formulation of the same". Is this done? Not really. That strateella prediction of the monographic Pleno, has been released to the surface by many polemics around 19 months. This new decree has a star measure: An offer to support the $16 weeks of those parents who haven't been pregnant. In our opinion, this proposition also, with discriminations, is very conditioned. It will be different in public and private, and in private it will be different among those who practise autonomous or other enterprises. The justifications of these, which are used to justify these conditions, seem not too solid, when they have changed from the doubts that have arisen within a week's period, and appear too strong when all reports which contribute to this decree are questioned. And there is another question to consider: that this difference of choice does not ensure that decree. Besides, this decree has a very clear element: the previous decrees gave him no answer to a question. As the Decree sets those scholarships, so far as they're subsidies, they'll be paid over once they're done. Which means that the people who require independence must have an income before they can enjoy it and enjoy it. And that will inevitably leave thousands and thousands of families in the greatest state of impeccability. And it is true that decree raises 30% of the amount of these preparations, but if the terms of payment are not changed, these people will not be able to ask for such assistance. And this, we think, is the greatest discrimination established by the decree: that there will be a license on the social level and a disfrute for them. In fact, it's a kind of exploitation based on extortion, and you know that our labor trader punishes our care requirements, economicly and quickly. Our trade has, as it were, been arranged with the order of care, and we shall see what consequences all these essences will have. But for the moment it has been shown that all the measures based on essences have had very little efficiency in the planning for the change of roles, and in the relations of men and women. You'll see what this has, but with these radical plans...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u62	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u63	Yes... And I'd like to remind you of one last thing: and when we examine these conditions, when we examine them, when we examine them, when we perceive that they are not given in public, I dare say that these conditions, which are established, have a preponderance of expenditure, but a new plan. It seems to us that this is also opposed to this principle of the paradigm of social investment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u64	Madame Kortja's, thank you. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u65	Thank you, President. Today we are debating for the fifth time a subsequent motion for an inquiry concerning policies to support Basque families. We have discussed in previous motions similar situations, on 9 March and 2 November 2017, on 15 February 2018 and on 7 February 2019. Therefore, it has already become a whole classic. And on March 21, 2018, we dedicated a monograph to the family in the plenary of this Parliament, where numerous resolutions were agreed that have subsequently been included in the Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children, and where we had the opportunity to discuss in depth measures to be taken in support of families in our Autonomous Community in a broader way. It was a plan in which there was broad participation. The adoption of the final document was delayed, because it was felt that it would be desirable for such a strategy to have as much consensus as possible, because the results of these strategies, of these types of strategies, are achieved over the years, and this requires having a comprehensive strategy that is maintained and that does not change for a long time, that is not short-term in order to achieve the desired results in the long term, to change synergies and to improve birth rates, and that this strategy also involves the third sector, employers, trade unions and other organizations. And also because of the importance of this strategy being linked to a cultural and social change, a change within companies, in short, also a paradigm change. Prior to the monograph, there was already the Basque Strategy for Investment in Families and Children, within the last four months of 2017. We had the Family Pact in January 2018, and then, as we all know, we had the monograph and the Fourth Family and Children Pact. Of course, your general focus on all these initiatives, Mrs Garrido, has always been to say: nothing is done, it is not enough what is being done... And what is a reality in our Autonomous Community is that we have been carrying out family support policies for many years, developing pacts, while in other communities the reality is very different. Here we go for the IV Plan. We are the autonomous community that invests more in conciliation and family support: 63.5 million euros. Recognizing this right with criteria of universality and considering the subjective right to birth and adoption aid, aid to families has been increased by 33 %. Taking into account the experiences of more advanced countries in population policies, steps have been taken to raise awareness of society and to bring about cultural change in favour of equality and reconciliation. With regard to support for parenthood, aid is now being provided to non-pregnant spouses, in addition to that recently approved by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, for 8 weeks additional to those currently established by the Social Security system in the field of parental leave; which, by the way, as I have said, were approved by Mr Sánchez in February this year; not by Rajoy, although he was ruling the previous seven years. And they're going to subsidize paid voluntary surpluses for the shared care of sons and daughters. The Group of the European People's Party, in its original proposal, continues to emphasize the increase in aid, the increase in amounts. It can be seen that there are four points in this proposal specifically on this subject. In the compromise proposal you put to us this morning, it reduced it to one point. You simply reduced it to aid to people who have 33 % of the disability, but it also leaves it inconclusive, because it starts to say something, but then it doesn't say what measures it proposes. It seems that he wanted to recover one of the points raised by the EH Bildu Group in its amendment to the whole, but he stayed there in the middle, without even saying what he wanted... But, well, we thought it was better to defend our amendment as a whole, which is what we are going to do, and we have not reached a compromise. We have stated on several occasions that it is important for this debate on families to go from a mere debate on aid to a debate on rights. I believe that we agree with the vast majority of the parliamentary groups in this House. A debate that goes beyond birth policies, that has to do with a society of equals and rights, and that has to do with a demographic reality that needs to be corrected in the short, medium and long term. Although it will not return to past levels, its trend will never change as far as we want to achieve it, unless stable family policies are maintained over the years that can change it. There is a need for a set of policies that respond to two phenomena: the low birth rate and the greater economic difficulties of families with children, which have led to an increase in child poverty, are much more vulnerable to poverty among families with children, as well as the growing difficulties in breaking the intergenerational transmission of inequalities, calling into question the principle of equal opportunities. The recently signed Family Pact has also found, despite the efforts made in recent years, that support policies for families with children still have a significant margin of improvement in the Basque Country, as is also the case in the other countries of southern Europe, at least when compared to those in other European countries. We must continue to work, in order to further improve these policies. The reality today is that families are not having the number of children they would like to have, because of all the difficulties they face, difficulties in having the time to be able to reconcile personal and working life, because of the low co-responsibility in the care of children and our elderly. We have a family and childhood strategy, we have a pact, we have a plan, which starts with the recognition of the profound process of change in which the family structures and the trajectory of family life are immersed, and seeks that all family structures have the same degree of recognition and social protection. That is why we are going to support our amendment as a whole, in order to make further progress, in order to continue taking steps in the right direction, and that is why we indicated, we included that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to develop a demographic strategy and calls for the preferential development of aspects contained in the Fourth Family Support Plan, relating to the child and family observatories – as we said, our group, in the family monograph we considered necessary to develop them – to the impact reports on children, adolescents and families; to the system of support for families with children; and to awareness-raising, counselling and recognition of companies implementing reconciliation measures based on the Kontzilia 30 experience. Finally, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to develop and implement the Kontzilia website, in order to provide citizens with information to facilitate decision-making when reconciling family and work life. These three points, Mrs Garrido, coincide with some of your proposals, so I invite you to support them in further progress. Of course, we in this initiative will support our amendment as a whole. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u66	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u67	Chief of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. In contrast to this parliamentary system of legislation, which says that it was a failure in the Euscal families, I should say that there has been some other legislation, where family politics have led them to the centre of politics, as they have been brought into our legislation. And I would say that the moment when they had come to the centre, the moment that a new cycle really opened, came in unanimously from the family Basque treaty. We had a chance to contribute all the groups later, by means of the monographicgraphic, which we completed in this legislature, and which we received. The family took part in the plan as a guide plan for the next few years. The result of all this frame is that the design and schedule of the initiatives in this area has been planned for 2018-2022 over the time of the 197 million euros. Until $1.764 million to 2022. In this investment the 1,244 millions of Empedigues and Polic society are directly managed. Or, among other things, the extent of helping the second child is still in force since 2018. Or, in the monopographic term, by the contribution of the EH Collectors, the development of the proportions of the children's education to the lower families, or of more and better assistance from the use of industry. On the other hand, the support of labor independence has been restored to a wife who hasn't had the child's support. A great and precursor effort that will enable both married husbands to equalize their dedication, which will pay 100 percent on the basis of cooperation, always in the first year of the child, and always in a period when it will be different from the date of their mother. Or the Kerolia 30 programs that start with three pilots and wear 30, which will open the entire Euskamatic Autonomia Er member. Even the programmes for positive parenthood and family environments are soon to be strengthened. In Basque Autonomia Er member, what we've invested in families for the past few years has tripled, since 0.22% of the Bargain product. Family support has increased 33%. In this, as I said for the first batch of EH, I shall say for you now, Madam Garrido: I confess your contribution to this. I still think, even if we're at the beginning, we've got a good job and a good road. Besides, this has been made through agreement, and must continue thus, for what is before us is a great challenge. And this challenge will not only be faced with material resources, but it will require a change of other principles and values. For this reason, in the case of boldness and precursor steps in this subject of principle and budget, it seems to us a great injustice to say that domestic policies are a failure, because the present opinion, always free and always free, these politics, if they need anything, is a matter of time. IV. For at least one picture of the total position and direction. Family should take note of the deadline, and we started the road last year. But here, after cataloguing failed family policies, what does the People's Party propose to us through this initiative? It proposes what is proposed by the lehendakari and what it is already doing and what is scheduled in the IV Family Plan by 2022. In the first point, he proposed what the Lehendakari had already proposed in the general policy plenary. With regard to strengthening the Observatory for Family and Children, it is the 111th performance of the 4th Family Plan, scheduled until 2022. It increases its budget for the Children's Observatory by more than 50%, and that of the family from 40,000 to 150,000 euros. As for what you call paternity surpluses, it's not about financing paternity surpluses, really. They are addressed to the non-pregnant spouse, with the aim of promoting equality and co-responsibility in the care of the child. With regard to economic aid, there are three actions covered by the plan, Mrs Garrido: action 34, improvement of the treatment of family units with dependent minors; action 35, establishment of an inter-institutional working group to analyse the possibilities of integrated management of child and child benefits; and action 36, gradual improvement of periodic financial benefits for dependent children, which were improved by Decree 121/2018. For its sixth point, the family plan provides for action 18, reorientation of aid to workers in situations of surplus, in order to improve the coverage of aid to families in special need. Last Tuesday's decree improves 30 per cent overstays for large, single-parent or single-maritime families, with some dependent or disabled member, or with some person who is the victim of gender-based violence. Idem for point 7: Action 19, reorientation of aid to working people in a reduced working day, in order to improve the coverage of aid to family members in a situation of special need. In this, too, the decree published on Tuesday improves by another 30%. In its eighth point, Action 21 is planned to promote the development of pilot projects and plans for the reconciliation of working, family and personal life in enterprises; piloting, advice, establishment of a subsidy line, service and technical advice for the implementation of awareness-raising measures and campaigns; or Action 25 to recognize the role of leading and leading companies in the implementation of reconciliation and co-responsibility measures, through a system of awards and recognitions, scheduled for 2021; or Action 26, impulses for systems of accreditation and certification of conciliation measures. To conclude item 9, Kontzilia 30, advice on web reconciliation and management and the design of the Kontzilia campaign has recently been hired. You see, Mrs Garrido, a failure, where the losers go ahead of the proposals you propose to turn these policies around. I really think you're the one who's late and wrong. With regard to the amendment by Elkarrekin Podemos, we believe that point 1 is overtaken by the – at the moment – proposal made by the lehendakari in the general policy plenary. And I, in addition to making those words of the lehendakari, think it far exceeds your proposal, Mrs Guanche. I believe that by the decree which was published yesterday, the Kontzilia 30 programme and the actions to which I referred in reply to Mrs Garrido, the reply to the second and third points of her amendment is fulfilled. And EH Shader: the first point of correction is an expression. We agree. What is demanded in the second place is carried out through the plan, and we believe that it is necessary to perform it. The third time, we discussed it, and I am not going to repeat it, because I have also a whole part of my pay plans and family plans, but, to be honest, one thing struck me in this respect. You said: These four elements will be considered, and so on. Well, I don't know whether you wanted me to say it or not, but we think the system has to come up without a stop in the empty preparations that are necessary. About the fourth point, we didn't agree, because the other day's decree did not distract us. And in the fifth, to negotiate at once with the State of Spain all the handling of Social Security, is perfectly clear. For this purpose, in the first place, as with so many other things, someone ought to sit on the other side. But I absolutely agree. Then there was also a half-way proposal. We didn't agree with the third and fourth points that proposed there. And because of all this, I think I have given enough reason to say that we shall make our own correction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u68	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. At the turn of the answers, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u69	Okay. Mr Urrutia, in this life things can be dealt with with with with determination or one can be systematically installed in complacency, which is what this government does. Look, I understand that today is not a good day for this particular counselor, after the outcome of the vote on residential centers, in which she is urged to review the decree. I recognize that it will not be a good day for the councilwoman either, and together for the Basque Government, when today, knowing the results of the EPA, we were looking at the figures for the destruction of employment in Spain as a whole. And I think that, along the way, it is not going to be a good day on which to take stock of this parliamentary term and, in particular, of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, because, in this case, we are talking about a specific area, but I believe that this is already extendable to all the activities of the Department of Employment and Social Policy in fundamental aspects. Therefore, follow you like this and we will see the balance you have when the legislature is over. Look, she tells us that this Member of Parliament in her motion has copied some of the issues covered in the Fourth Family Plan and some of those that the Lehendakari has said. But seeing that some of the questions that the Lehendakari has said have not been put into effect by this Government, I have considered it opportune to translate them again into a motion. And I'm telling you, it's not the first time. Of course, he tells us that he is in the 4th Family Plan, but he will understand that we do not have much confidence in the plans of this government, when the forecasts of the 3rd Family Plan with regard to convergence with the European Union are neither seen nor expected; when there was a very concrete forecast with regard to the increase in annuities and amounts of support for families with children, and the only aid they put in place until last Tuesday, which is the increase of that annuality by the second son, from two to three years, was planned for 2014 and arrived in summer 2018. So don't tell me the forecasts of your plans, because we already see what the forecasts of your plans are. Moreover, if they do something, it is thanks to the impetus of the initiatives of the opposition groups in this House. The issue of surpluses. Of course, yes, the decree is passed on Tuesday, the 22nd. This motion was registered on the 15th. Well, I am also somewhat pleased that this Government, in some of the proposals it has included in its decree, in its new decree, is in line with the measures already proposed by the People's Party a long time ago. With regard to surpluses: it turns out that if you are an official in this Autonomous Community or are a woman you are doing very well. That's right, as a man and above you work in the private sphere, you have it fatal; because I'm saying that if you're a woman or an official, you have things much easier than, of course, if you're a man and you work in the private sphere. Well, it seems to me that we make a bread with some pies. Because we are talking about co-responsibility and conciliation, and then we do not favour men who work in the private sphere, who have conditions of conciliation and co-responsibility, in the light of it, worse than in the public sphere and above all we make regulations and we promote regulations with which we increase those differences, because conciliation and co-responsibility live, because, of course, I believe that the objective pursued by this Government is clearly not being achieved. Mrs Sánchez told me this is the fifth time we have presented this initiative. Yes, well, I thank you for recognizing my perseverance in this matter, as in others, I am a little persistent, even sometimes a little heavy, I understand, but you also have to recognize my constructive spirit. I mean, you could have made an alternative proposal, too, and you haven't even bothered. I mean, he's in sight of what's come. The resolutions of the full monograph, many of them, are not being complied with. I believe that this government has not even dared to look at them, beyond the fact that in that full monograph we were announced the famous... It is true, it is a surplus by the non-pregnant parent, 100 % of the contribution base, a voluntary surplus. But it was announced on March 21, 2018. He arrived when he arrived, as I said before, late and bad. It is true, Signora Kortja's: you didn't mention the question of the demography strategy, but then you've made precise statements in your interference, so I don't think there'll be any trouble there. And, Mrs. Guanche, we don't share the bottom anyway. Yes, I believe that in this matter as in others, we have different positions, if we go to the bottom. But on specific issues that you have reflected in your initiative, in your amendment and in mine, as an original proposal, for there is indeed a coincidence. You are talking about strategy in this case. You, like Mrs Kortajarena, are talking about eliminating distinctions in the private and public spheres. You are also talking about measures in conciliation and co-responsibility, and I believe that, in this case, the Government, with the decree it has adopted, has remained quite half-hearted, or, of course, has failed to achieve the objective that was being pursued. We will also see the effects of that decree, if it is to be effective with those limitations that are still being maintained today. Although the Government recognized that they could be revised, they had not been revised, only the limitation of the requirement for domestic workers had been revised. We will see the effects of this decree, whether it will be dissuasive or not and whether it will ultimately be effective, but I am very afraid that, of course, the intended objective will not be met. I encourage you to look carefully at the proposal of the People's Party and, well, you can vote on some of its forecasts. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u70	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Miss Guanche, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u71	Thank you, ma'am. Let's split it up, Mrs. Sanchez. I'm sorry, but I'm going to amend something, because investing a lot isn't always about investing well. And you're not being completely honest with the amount of millions you've named in this atril. Because in the gender impact report of the budgets, both those in force and those that were not approved, Emakunde says that of the aid that exists for conciliation only two can be understood as aid that contributes to co-responsibility and conciliation. We have the help of working people for the care of children, which Emakunde, in his gender impact report, considers to be perverse; we have the help of working people for the care of dependent people, which Emakunde, in his gender impact report, considers to be perverse. We have the aid for the recruitment of women care workers, yes, and the aid for maternity leave, and also this decree, which has been sold for many months, but which, at last, seems to have just been approved. But then we have other financial support for families with sons and daughters that are clearly demographic cutting aids. They are not aid which contributes to conciliation and co-responsibility. You can put the bag as pretty as you want, but to me, who knows what's inside, you're not going to give me a cat for hare. Investing well isn't always about investing more. Then we will have to assess what we are doing and why every year all these bags with help money for families go unspent. You have to assess why if you don't get paid the moment you catch the surplus, people don't ask for it, because at best we're not used to eating, I say. Mr Urrutia, a statement from the lehendakari that we do not know what contains. Overtake my initiative, because you say so. It beats the rest of the points, because they're already done. The decrees sell them seven times before they exist, the observatories don't work, because they don't have anyone to do the job, but it doesn't matter, we keep pushing them preferentially. There is a recognized right to social services, but people cannot use half of those that the law recognizes should exist, because they do not exist. There is a recognized right to housing, but there are a lot of people who have recognized the right to neither benefit nor housing. There is a right to the income guarantee that is a yincan of obstacles that people cannot access. But nothing happens, you all move forward and with direct march. Let me not slap you in the back, because I think you're just left. I do want to clarify something to end this debate. Elkarrekin We believe that addressing the demographic challenge is a fundamental thing to talk about in this House, and that it cannot come out of the head of the lehendakari or some enlightened, or PriceWaterhouseCoopers, alone, or go find out from whom. I will take from reference what Mrs Kortajarena recalled: that paradigm shift that was so much talked about in the full family monograph seems to be that it has remained in a paradigm shift, because the paradigm in which we are still the same. For us to talk about demographic challenge is to talk about feminism, it's to address the reality of an aging society that needs care that is not provided to it as people need it, it's to talk about precariousness, it's to talk about people who have work and are poor, it's to talk about people who don't have care for it, it's to talk about people who don't access the public services that exist, because what's not working for them, and that's to be evaluated and we need to see how we approach it. In Euskadi there are girls and boys living in poverty who are condemned to reproduce that poverty because they cannot break the spiral of intergenerational poverty, they cannot, because public services are segregating them in schools, or they are not being given the opportunities to break it, because income-guarantee benefits get people out of poverty, and that is something we have to address. And I insist, I think it is an important enough issue for us to do so among all, with courageous measures, with a broad look, and with much dialogue. Mr Urrutia, whenever you want we sit down and review what is done and what is not done by this Government. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u73	Thank goodness there are times for laughter. Far away too, sir, I'd like to talk about other things and systems beyond preparation. The point is, we don't have that, I don't think, this decree, which we now have, is a new decree about the council. I don't think it's the kind of thing you're supposed to do or make a website around that, you know, where you're located in the family police vanguard. I would like to put it in value, for the first turn I have forgotten, that the decree of decreees and decrees of the decree of the councils had recently been removed in this decree. I think it's a matter of value. The Basque Country is a matter so often claimed by the Union that at last this distraction has been removed. But I believe that it is essential to speak of discrimination, and that it is very important here to remark, that the greatest discrimination will be the most serious economic conditions, or the most serious state of variability, and that this new decree does not guarantee the equality of opportunity. Because you mentioned the increase in 30%, that's right. One parent family will have a 24-month extension, that's right. But how do you expect such help? Especially because that's the data that the polls of the poverty and social differences suggest to us. How can such a state of frigate be made when there is no past income? The difference of opportunity is not guaranteed, and that's a tremendous discrimination. It seems to me that a decree which does not guarantee this difference is not appropriate, and I make it my duty to obey those agreed in the monographicographic, and to take measures to fulfil them, because it is not being fulfilled. And he's just not filling up on the next point you're talking about, is he? With the Socialist Party, with you, with the members of the government, together with Podemos and the Absence of the Popula, we agreed to make a special plan for four years with the feminist movement. And in this special plan, we would further consider the measures for solving those patches which are at the foundation of this decree, including universality, contentude, amount, and compensation. And you made up your mind not to fill that college thing in a different way. Then the agreements are very well, and I am convinced, and we have often discussed it, that this is the reason why we put monographics in our value, and the honesty that has been made for the agreement in this monographic, because it must have a scope for the agreements, but the agreements are to fulfil. And when we discussed this matter in June, you expressly said that you would not keep it, that you would do as you wish. And that's how it's hard to move forward in agreement. I here confirm that we must have a peculiar plan, if we wish to be a member of society, and if we wish to produce it, and if we wish to advance on the points of equality. If we want to change these examples, we need a specialized plan, provided with money, just as we need other things. Of course, that's why I mentioned filling up all the elements of this monographic, not only that, but also the others. But that too. That's why we're asking. This necessarily brings about the discussion of independence, and I agree with you. For here, by this decree, we do not regulate the rights, we have no capacity. State sets us on these permits. And then we must regulate our own models here by help. And therefore we immediately demand that all these rights of Social Security should be given us, because it is necessary also to build this standard of its own. And yes, I put the agreements in value, but when those agreements are not fulfilled, I think there's a great deal to do. Especially because, as I said at the beginning, you brought a pact to protect your families.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u75	Well, as I said in my first speech, obviously proposing measures to move forward is constructive and, of course, we have to keep moving towards changing the synergies that currently exist in the area of the birth rate and in the whole structure of family support policies, and that is where we are. That is why I said that we were going to support our amendment as a whole. And we did not like the amendment to the whole of Bildu, where we considered that new things were not being asked for either, because one of its points was that the recommendations adopted in the monograph should be complied with. Man, of course, are approved, they are about to be fulfilled. To draw up a special reconciliation plan, well, we already have the IV Family Support Plan. And then on one of the points, he valued the present decree of conciliation, which is good to put it in value, but which also did not bring much more. They were also calling for the transfer of social security, and we have already discussed it here in this Parliament. I didn't bring anything new either. In the context of the proposal, the Podemos amendment called for an interdepartmental working strategy. We already include in our amendment to the whole development of a population strategy. In addition, we had another set of points, which is why I said that we are going to support this amendment as a whole, which refers to specific points in order to keep moving in the right direction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u76	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours. Gentlemen of the URURAIN: Chief of Parliament. Mrs Garrido, I believe that the problem of deja vu, which Mrs Kortajarena was also talking about, is given because you are anchored in the speech of the III Plan and we are already in the IV: it took but arrived, and here it is. And everything you proposed is reflected in this plan, it's calendared and it's materializing to the extent that it can materialize in the lifetime of this plan. When you say that you registered the initiative on the 15th and that the decree comes on the 22nd, man, you won't be thinking that the decree comes on the 22nd because you registered... No, no, don't do this to me, because I read the answer the counselor gave to the inquiry. He said, "It will be for the 22nd." Read it. You have spoken of criticism, I believe that to the decree, and, if my information is not incorrect, it was approved at the Basque Council of Families, by everyone except for an association. And what balance will this department have at the end of the legislature? Well, we'll see about that. Of course, I'm sure that the balance sheet that I make and the balance that you make will differ quite. Mrs Guanche, of course there is a proposal on demographic strategy. It was done by the lehendakari, in addition, addressing the issues to be addressed. And I have here the literality of one of the parts where he addresses the subject and says: "Develop the 2030 strategy on demographics, which, in addition to the initiatives under way, incorporates a battery of new tractor actions." "To this end, an interdepartmental working group will be set up. It will develop the following lines of action: to advance the implementation of measures to promote co-responsibility in care tasks; to progressively increase investment in families in relation to our gross domestic product; to improve birth support, through economic benefits and tax advantages; a housing plan specially designed for young people; to expand the provision of children's school, in collaboration with municipalities, by advancing early schooling between 0 and 2 years; to socialize the contribution of migration and the need for means of residence permits, work, professional qualification and support for integration; a social awareness plan to promote co-responsibility, personal and family efforts, commitment to future generations". And he ends up saying: "Demographic change breaks in the medium term the basic balances of a cohesive society project. Its silence is of great depth and strategic reach." You, I remember that what I was going to say at the first point in your amendment was basically what we would have to deal with, but not what issues or items we would have to touch on in particular. That is why I believe that this proposal, which is a proposal made in the general policy debate, and in that debate may have the degree of practicality that it can have, I think it exceeded the first point of its amendment. The strategy of the family pact and the demographic strategy, you have said that they are agreed with the employer. As I recall, the family pact was unanimous in the Basque Family Council. And then, in addition, an inter-institutional pact was made with the three institutional levels. Then, I think there are times when you can't get everything into each other's speech. In other words, it may sometimes be assumed that we pay attention to the employer, but in this case the agreements were taken in other areas. There is no doubt that employers must also be involved in reconciling work and personal life, including employers, trade unions and the various social partners. And, look, I accept the criticism of my amendment. I accept it. And she's not the first one to do it to me today. But, of course, I had Mrs. Garrido's text, and I can assure you that the first text I had on the computer was one that would have liked you very much, that said, "Keep moving, keep developing, keep going." And I'd really rather make it shorter and stare at some performances that's true that they're being done, but it's that Mrs. Garrido goes behind the scenes. So, I really had two options: that one or the one to keep moving forward, keep developing, etc. Ms. Kortja, I think what you said about the demographic strategy may not be the topic today. But I've read what the president said. And I believe that these sayings of the President are principally followed by deficiencies, he is directed to defend his welfare. He says so, and he mentions the plan of conciencición social. And this appears to me to be indispensable to me because the problems of reproduction are not all related to deficit wells. And, yes, I accept your website as well. I don't think it's the most important thing. But I'll have to tell you what Mrs. Guanche said. At last I had to answer, even that point. And, yes, I put in the Web. In any case, it is true that it is not the most important subject at all. In the end, yes, we brought the family debt because we were responsible for what we brought. The government we protect brought it in, and we really believe it's an important guidebook for the paradigm change we speak of. But I'll end up asking you a question. You would say, from the order of the day before, that there is no social investment there? Perhaps if we're to sit down, we should talk about such concepts as these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u77	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. We'll put Garrido Knörr back to the vote after the discussion has ended. Yes, yes. Well, if he wants it, yeah. How do you want to vote? Excuse me? [[Words]] Four out? Fourth come out and everybody else? Then we vote for the fourth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u78	So the fourth point is accepted. And we will vote another two, three, five, six, seven, eight, and ninth points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 66; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u79	So the other points have not been accepted. At this point, I interrupt until four o'clock. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-eight. At four o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u80	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll continue the entire meeting. Forth point on the theme list: "RGGGGGGGG up the other bill made by parlamentary team on the increase of the budget of ETV-1. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Mrs. Aguirre, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Pick up where we are. Sometimes curious things happen, as it happened with this one. We've seen it clearly and we see it's not possible since ETV-1, 37 years old. It is only the shadow of what must be and what it has been, the dark shadow long ago, for many reasons. One of the big ones, but not the only one, it's a lack of money, it's a highly economic television media. Reporting requires great investments, but making a much bigger investment fiction. And ETV-1, so exact, needs it, mostly. He has to provide entertainment with euphoria, but most of all fiction, made at home, duplicate or subtitles. That's why we went through the data we had and, according to them, we made a calculation, and in our other legal proposal we asked to increase ETV-1's budget by 10 percent. We thought it would facilitate EIB to encourage him, and that he would place ETB-1 on the right side in this leap from the knowledge of the eucalyptus to the use. And when we were there, and that's curious, the Director of EIB, Iturb, the Director of IIB, introduced us in the control committee about the normalization of EITB in society. In the section called the strategic framework of strengthening EIB's support, the director quotes the reduction of EIB's attack by the crisis. For the past ten years, EITB's budget has not been raised, and according to his data, 142,8 million to 130. So the director thinks it's necessary to recycle EIB's budget, especially in order to regain the quality of the product, and to exceed the age of low cost or cheap trades that now is used in ETB. So the EIB Manager believes that the budget of ETB is to increase 25 percent in the next program contract, that is to say, 28 million more, from which two third-thirds of the eucaral contents must be improved. That's 16-17% more for euscan content. I mean, more than we asked for at first. That's why we've made a middle-way together with Podemos who wants to raise ETV budget 20%. To argue what use it is, I think the best thing to do is to receive what the directors of the EIB are saying, though we know what object we wish to achieve, and they know better than any one else what the wants of EITB are than they are, and without going far off the Director himself, Iturb, has an experience of many years in it as a professional in the house. So, like them, we think ETB-1 needs an additional budget. What for? One, every 12 hours a day, to make sure that it's a home production. Two in slow cost, that is to say, not in cheap format, but in elaborate form, which diffusion and entertainment. Three, today to give the news a natural personality, with more personal information and social information. Fourthly, to recover a series of daily fictions in entertainment, like old Goenkale. The management says that the policy of the contents must be established to help us generate more stories and stories of euscal label. And we think that's right, too. And not only that, the management says that the television that will encourage the freedom of creation will be shared even during the entertainment. And that's what we do, too, of course. And finally, the editor proposes that the activity of crosmedia should be adapted to all the media of the world's media, that is to say, the performance of the content which will be useful for the channel-formats and distribution platforms. We agree with what is to be done in ETB, or rather to strengthen EIB's eIB's equiscan content, to expand, to expand, to extend it, to be in ETB-1, which is the other channel or media of euphora. That's where we're completely satisfied with the EIB Management. But we shouldn't be honest with him if we didn't make a point of it, because the words are pretty, but especially because we need actions. They're also recorded on EIB's contract program. Here also it is said that the entertainment of ETB-1 will be treated with many forms, magnetine, fiction, serial and movie, reality, competition, humor, cooking, etc. And the question is: Where are they? The contract program ends this year, another one will be signed next year, with such pretty words, but where are the actions? That's where we're concerned. I think the problem with ETB-1 isn't just a budget problem, it's a mental problem, it's a question of bets and beliefs. And I'll give examples, which have no direct connection with the money, according to the official data given by the director, because ETB-1 and ETB-2 have the same budget. It's the local examples of the past week: When we learned the sentence from the Catalan Procés, they did a special try on this ETB-2, while on the screen of ETB-1's La Perko jacuzzi, very reassuring, very warm water, bubbles, everything, but if you want to be leader in the news, it's a bit pathetic, isn't it? Then, followed by the same subject, due to the sentence of Procés, on the day of the strike in Catalonia, all the special reports of ETB were made from Catalonia and the rest of them at ETB-2. And not only that, but today's day lasted 14 minutes and no Teleber. And this is another example. It is customary to be shorter than the New Telelogy at the present day, sometimes because there is a sports performance before the present day, and therefore it is extremely shortened, and for a simple reason it is generally shorter every day: the same equipment does both news and they have to change their physical places from today to telenew, and they need a few minutes to do so, and as today is before New Year's Day, today is a loser, but the New Year can extend as much as he likes. That's the reason. Money? Yes, it might be possible to fix it with money, two teams hired or something like that, but it's a question of the bet that's made, especially when it's ahead of today, because the second is always left behind, and it's renews in time. It's a question of dependence, of the soul of ETV. This soul has been different in the history of ETV. I don't want to put on nostalgic, but I have to look back to understand the present and decide the future. The Cultural Chief will remember the early years. When there was only one ETB, the Basque canal, he, EspanAlamiz, you became Elene Lsiladean system, a new social phenomenon in the Basque Country, we had mediaferent eucalists, I'd say for the first time in history, considering the opening of ETBn's hour, and you insisted on euphora when it was urgent. And then what happened? Well, ETB-2 created it. Then, although it may seem paradoxical, he knew how to support it, and how people who understood it increased, thanks to education and eucasures, the number of people from ETB-1 began to descend as they ascended the ETB-2. Language wasn't a problem, content maybe. ETB-1 was empty for ETB-2. The greatest competition became that which was of the same house. Cain and Abel. Another star system was created ETB-2, Juan Luis Viuña, Amaia Urchia, Julius Ibarus, and there is also the paradox that all these writers of reference are talking eucalypical, very good professionals, fit to work in the Euscan canal, but in youth. Language wasn't the problem even then, not even the budget. The problem was as simple as it is now. We have to decide what we want, and soon too. You have a Spanish autonomic television, like Telemadrid or Canal Sur, or you have a popular eye in the land of the euccany. It's the time to decide the strategy, you can't lose a chance, just as we've lost it with the Basques, and that's what's gonna affect it. Although the control of the waves is now under the control of the States, Esscal institutions have been able to control the space of the cable through Euscale institutions. That's why, for instance, on the first channel of our television television, ETB-1 shows up and not another one. But in selling Euscalel, a fund without a soul, which will not think as a country, nor as regards television, nor about other platforms that are being spread. So another lost opportunity with the Basques, unless they recover the public control of the Basques or produce another. We have to decide which way we're going, and the moment is now, the media, even the strongest, are on the occasion of decisive action, the media of the smaller languages must still be more clear, because it's more difficult for them. It's also time to be brave. ETB was brave, perhaps driven by necessity, but he succeeded in approaching the town. When we didn't even know what the telenobes were, we saw the telenobes doubled to the eucalyptic. At present, however, there is hardly any double-thinker, because it does not give them any doubles, and they must do what they offer for almost the exchange of kisses. There's not even a series of people in the area. Eduardo Barinaga, director of the TTB, committed to it. 2018. he said it as soon as the year was over, and at the most for the spring of 2019. We're in the fall and we're waiting. He can't do his job. We ought to ask him what condition he offers not to find out, for in this country, if there is anything, it is creative. There is a time to do so, and now it is time to take the engagement and unite all the forces from beautiful words to the effective action, because it is exhausted. We're willing to help you on that road because it's necessary and it's worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u83	Yes, good afternoon. For once again we have come to discuss EITB, on this occasion on ETB-1, and mismanagement or inaction with one of the main objectives of EITB, which is nothing other than the dissemination and promotion of Basque, as reflected in Law 5/1982 of 20 May on the Creation of the Public Entity Radio Television Basque. Law, by the way, which, as we all know, has become obsolete and which we are trying to update in the context of the presentation, I am not going to repeat what Mrs Agirre has already explained, concerning the budget reduction, so I am going to omit this part and I am going to talk about another part, another reality, of the euskera in the specific case of ETB-1, which, 37 years after the law, also has to do with the hearings. And, as we already know, the hearings currently range from 1 to 2 % on average, which makes it difficult for a job to promote Basque, basically because it does not reach anyone. And it also has to do with a channel that has obsolete programming, which doesn't hook up with the Basque audiences. It is true that audiovisual consumption habits are changing, but it is also true that this ETB-1 hearing problem has been occurring for a long time without it being reversed. From Elkarrekin We have always defended the public service of EITB, and, as it could not otherwise be, the promotion, dissemination and standardization of the Basque language. For us, these are issues that have to do with that EITB service mission. Diagnosis that is not fulfilled is to diagnose a failure. Starting to put solutions is a first step in reversing this situation, and for this we have to bet on programming and own content, and this requires greater economic investment, as we have already talked about, in addition to a favourable climate, teams and an exciting project. To follow as we are, without doing anything, without an exciting project, is to assume that there is nothing to do, or that trying to do it is not worth it, or that is the message that we read in the inaction of the EITB Directorate. And we have it clear, doing nothing or not trying is not our position. From Elkarrekin We are convinced that ETB-1 has much to contribute in favor of the Basque and we are convinced that many things can be done for the audience to see EITB. It's about finding the right formulas, it's about investigating and working so that young people, the elderly, who study Basque, finally, all those who have an interest in watching TV in Basque feel challenged and find attractive, quality and varied audiovisual products. It is true that the EITB model is subject to review in the paper, and we will certainly listen again today to that mantra which says that this has to be worked on in the paper, that for that we have the paper and blah, blah, blah, blah, because we have been with the paper a long time and we have not finished closing it. We want the model to change and the presentation to reach, as soon as possible, the agreements necessary to draw up its opinion, which will serve as the basis for the reform of the EITB law, but in the meantime there are things that can be done and that need to be done. In the same way that we have provided our own initiatives on different topics, some related to euskera in EITB, such as, for example, carrying out a subtitled euskera learning program, we have also supported and will always support those initiatives that go in that direction, which is no other than ETB-1 being a tool that effectively serves in the transmission of euskera and Basque culture. That is why we are voting in favour of the initiative we have had with the parliamentary group of EH Bildu, which contains two points, which I am going to repeat again, because the truth is that I find it difficult to believe that it will not come forward today, because they are proposals as simple as asking Parliament to ratify the basic principles of the EITB Creation Act, that is to say, the dissemination of Basque and Basque culture, and another point, which is to urge the Government to provide EITB with sufficient resources to increase the budget for its own programming, fiction, dissemination, cultural, children's and information programmes in Basque, to broadcast them through both channels of ETB, by allocating at least 2/3 of that increase to the first point and by promoting innovative bets and prestigious campaigns for the chain itself. Also, that this increase in economic resources is reflected, among other things, in the contract-programme that will be in force in 2020; something so simple, but which seems to be very complicated to approve by the various political formations, especially by the Government. We hope to hear what your arguments are to say no to this initiative, if it is really going to say no – which seems to be yes, I don't know, I'm in doubt – I would like to hear the arguments to say no to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u84	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Passing round the teams that don't run, the Basque Popular, Mrs. Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, Mrs Arana, indeed, we certainly hear here the question of presentation and reform, because it also has a lot to do with it. I believe that in this paper what the groups are trying to do, and then to put it into the conclusions, is to define the philosophy that must have EITB and what should be the purposes of EITB, the purposes that existed at the time of the creation of the entity and that I believe have been lost. But I – I have said this on other occasions – consider it entirely appropriate and possible that, apart from having the presentation, there are issues that can be discussed perfectly, because they are important and because, since it is slow, their debate should not be ignored. We agree with much of the initiative and we basically agree with what it shows in the justification of the initiative, because we have also shown it on other occasions in this House. The diffusion of euskera and our own culture must be an essence of ITBE, and not only because it is placed in the Law of Creation of the Entity, but because it is part of the entity's own philosophy. The role that the media play in the transmission of culture and its own language is fundamental. Moreover, not only does this role of EITB in the transmission of culture and euskera appear in the Law of Creation of the Entity, but it also appears in the contract-program, and also appears in EITB's strategic plan. As a public service they are, our radio and public television must fulfil that mission of promoting the use of Basque. The issue of contract-programme is also mentioned in the initiative and amendment. The contract-programme defines the contents of the public service mission assigned to it by EITB; sets out the description of that public service, the commitments it undertakes for its provision, the activities and objectives to be fulfilled by EITB and its companies; and sets out, in return, the commitments of the Basque Government in relation to the financing of the institution. That is why, as I say, the promotion of Basque in an increasingly bilingual society, because it is clear and meridian that it must be one of the missions that must be carried out by EITB. It should promote the dissemination of content, creations, activities developed and developed in Basque in the various social fields, and reflect these broadcasts of bilingual social reality. And to promote the promotion of bilingualism as an element of equity, cohesion and modernity. Also, as I said before, the strategic plan sets out as one of its lines, specifically line three – I said this about another initiative, which Mrs Arana recalled that she brought here in relation to the Basque and EITB – because that point three, precisely, also refers to that promotion in EITB of the Basque. Then I believe that the role that EITB must play in the teaching, knowledge and dissemination of the Basque language is clear. It appears in the Law on the Creation of the Entity, in the strategic plan. And what it is about is to carry out actions precisely that make that role effective. Our group has always defended him. I believe that one of the essences of EITB must be precisely the importance of its mission to spread the Basque, to understand in Basque, to inform in Basque, to entertain in Basque. We also share with the initiative that one of the key instruments for the euskera to make the leap from knowledge to use, precisely, are the media. The media not only as news media, but also as means of entertainment, fiction, own production, as the proposer said, either doubled or subtitled. And we share with the proponent that ETB is becoming absolutely out of step in the diffusion of the Basque. But the proposer herself has said: What is the question? Is that the budget? Or is it philosophy? Or is it the philosophy that is being applied right now? Because ETB-1 should be the entity's flagship. The reason for the existence of our public television should be essentially ETB-1. And we're seeing that right now ETB-1 is the poor sister, she's the poor sister in everything: she's the poor sister in fiction, she's the poor sister in news, she's the poor sister in everything. And that is reflected in the hearings. As the only Basque television in Euskadi, in September ETB-2 did not reach 8% in its audience, 7.9; but ETB-1 did not reach even 2, 1.9. So, sometimes when you ask the management how it accomplishes this mission, because simply what comes to us is what is the number of hours that is broadcast in Basque, as if that were already the only ratio and the only question that could be measured if that goal is met or not. But I believe that – we have said this on many occasions, not only this group, but I believe that others too – the number of hours does not reflect whether the mission is fulfilled or not. Other values should be taken into account to see whether that objective is met or not and whether other criteria are used. See what kind of programs are broadcast, the quality of those programs, if those programs eventually manage to hook up with the audience, if they're attractive... And it is true that hearings cannot be the only indicator to take into account. But it is also one of the indicators that come to reflect what is the connection Basque citizens have with EITB, in what way they consider it attractive. And fundamentally, and as far as we are concerned now, whether or not you can meet that goal of dissemination and promotion in Basque. Because, let's not forget, we are at a time when society is becoming more and more euskaldun and yet the interest in the only euskaldun television that we have is becoming less and less, with which I think that should make us all think. And what is not good for us, at least for this group, is that young people have another way of watching television, of accessing the media; I think it is a question of thinking that at best the problem is that we have to offer, more attractive programmes that can attract the public. With that part, with the first part, and from now on, if you accept the point vote in the compromise amendment, we would vote in favour of the first point and against the second. And why? I'll explain it to you. Because we are being proposed a 20% increase in the budget, and Mrs Agirre here said that she fully understood that the EITB Directorate understood the problem of ETB-1. I don't understand, if the Directorate knows exactly what it has to do, why it hasn't done so far. Because he has two legislatures in office. He's got two legislatures. And, come on, correction faces don't point, do they? E initially requested an increase of 10% and now in the amendment it is 20%. And it is true, Mrs Iturbe asked for it in this House, she asked for the increase in the budget. Why? Because the director of EITB blames the failure of the hearings, both in Spanish and in Basque, to the decrease of the budget. She made us a comparison of the budgets that were a few years ago and those that are now; the decrease in the budget, the digital platforms, the new way of seeing EITB, anything, any issue that has nothing to do with the management that she and her team are doing. It is true that self-criticism is not a consubstantial thing either to the Basque Nationalist Party or to the EITB Directorate, but the question that has just been asked is: Is everything really on the budget? With a budget increase? To put figures and data on the table: the EITB budget is 137 million euros, and let's see if it is really scarce, because it is 63.10 euros per inhabitant. And we're going to watch other autonomous televisions. That of Andalusia is 16.5 euros per inhabitant. Let us see others, for example, in their own language: Galicia, has 109 million euros in budget, 40 euros per inhabitant; Catalonia, despite the injection that Mr Torra has provided this year, which has been important and for the purposes we all know, has a budget of 326 million, but of course, with the inhabitants that Catalonia has that is 43 euros per inhabitant. Much higher than that of EITB, which, as I say, is 63 euros per inhabitant. And if we compare EITB's items with those of the Basque Government's budget, we see that EITB has a budget that accounts for half of the social assistance benefits. We spent EUR 328 million on RGI and supplementary housing and EUR 137 million on EITB. But we spend practically the same on housing policy as in EITB. 141 million for Basque housing and 137 million for their television. And we talked about hearings, to compare budgets and hearings. For in May of this year, according to the study of Barlovento, we have that the one that leads the audience within the autonomous televisions is TV3, which is about 13%, and that of Galicia, more than 10%. And our television, I said before: ETB-2 does not reach 8% and ETB-1 does not reach 2%. Is it really just a budget problem? Because now here we are asking for the budget to be increased. Also, as I say, the director said the problem was the budget, of course, how it will fall on it. But the question is: Won't the problem be a management problem? Won't it be a problem to manage your equipment? As I said, I already know that it is not much of this government to make self-criticism, but I should put it to you, because the hearings do not resume, because we see star programmes, which cost a lot of money to all Basques every morning, which in the audience are the last, the last. That's right, they're talking about the same thing the rest of them are talking about. They don't talk about corruption here, they don't talk about the problems here. No, no, They talk about the same thing as the rest, that Susana Griso, that the 1st of the same I don't know what. No, they talk about the same thing, the same thing: the corruption of the Ebro down, that Franco is untangled, the problems of the Government of Spain. Of course, of the Basque Government, of its problems, of whether unemployment increases in Euskadi, no, that is not what they are talking about. That's not what they're talking about. Of course, as they talk about the same thing as the rest of the televisions, because the Basques see the rest of the televisions. And we're paying a dollar for a...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u86	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u87	Yeah, yeah. I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u88	Ya.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u89	So I think that the problem is not a problem of money, it is a problem of management, it is a problem of redistribution of the budget, and that it is really spent and – as I have now missed time, I will say later – that it is spent where it has to be spent. That is why, as I say, I agree with the first point and we will vote against the second.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u90	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists followed. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u91	Well, thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, counselor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Get out of the way. Mrs Agirre, Mrs Arana, Mrs Llanos, I think we are going to start with what unites us, and that is that we agree in part with the analyses and the criteria that we have and will establish, which you have established in your speech and us in ours. As everyone knows, from the Socialist Group we have been defending for many years an impetus to ETB's Basque production, which is actually and basically channelled through its first channel. We have also repeated – Mrs Llanos said the same term – that this should be the flagship and the distinguishing element with respect to any other television offer that Basques and Basques can receive in our homes, on our mobile phones or on our computers. Because we actually have many possibilities in Spanish, but publicly only one in Basque. And we continue to maintain that bet and we always maintain it from a firm position that this production in our own language can and must increase, and that the technological possibilities available to us can and must continue to develop so that quality products in Basque can also be followed by those who do not know this language, our language, through subtitles, for example, which Mrs Agirre also commented on. And also, as we have pointed out on many occasions, we find that there has been an increase in this type of production with audiovisual quality criteria, but that ETB-1 still has a great shortage, which is to be the information reference for that half of the population of Euskadi who says they know the Basque language. And it is a deficit that drags away because every time there is a relevant fact – you are right, Mrs Agirre – ETB's information bet continues to pour into your channel in Spanish. We have just seen it with everything that has happened in Catalonia in recent days, special programming to tutiplen in ETB-2, and not in the first channel, when there is already another million television offers, other televisions that are offering information in Spanish, one per minute information. But this is not solved by this non-law proposal that you bring us today, that you bring us Bildu and that you have traded with Elkarrekin Podemos. A proposal which, by the way, is a budgetary amendment, and I must remind you that the time has not yet come for the discussion of the budget debate. But we also disagree on what is intended. And it is, indeed, Mrs Arana, to value the presentation. The debate on the channels of the future Basque public audiovisual service is still drawing it in the relevant parliamentary paper, for which is the work that is costing time and work, and which we are waiting for to be closed, all being a matter of will. We have already said at a presentation meeting not long ago that we can do so in very short time. We talked about this in the committee just 10 days ago, in an appearance in which the Director General also pointed out the difficulties in achieving greater euskera strength. And there we talked about that paradox in which we all agreed and which we also pointed out: why at the moment of history when more people know the Basque, the audience is lower. And the paradox that a television that started almost entirely in Basque ended up unfolding until the channel in Spanish was clearly imposed between the preferences of Basque citizenship. There are many historical factors and I will not now remember why ETB is born in 1986, the political context on the eve of an autonomous election in very particular circumstances, nor will I talk about the historical difficulties to connect with the Basques and not get enough appeal with the Basques berris. You know that, because I have taught it to you; we have quite analysed it by the Socialists. We have a different idea about funding and the budget. What we advocate is that there be a contract-programme setting out objectives that are evaluable and that receive their funding in line with the achievement of these objectives. And this is a very different thing from what is proposed here today, from the debate that is proposed here today. I think we all share what the proposing group is saying, which is to increase the resources to produce in Basque, but the method is not the right one with the current budget formulation. The method, with the corresponding parliamentary intervention, is to change the way of making that contract-programme which today is signed by the Government itself with which it proposes to direct the entity. What we are proposing is an absolutely different model: that this Parliament should approve the expenditure of all its public services and define what it expects from the audiovisual service, also with regard to production in Basque. And that this programme contract should therefore be approved by this House and modulated, where appropriate, throughout the years of implementation also by this House. And this is something that is part of our discussions within the paper for the comprehensive reform of ETB: how to finance the objectives we aim to achieve. And be sure that from our group we will continue to work intensively to get that agreement that we believe is possible. In any case, the debate seems timely, and it is also welcome. But what surprises us is that, being so close, I insist, the possibility of reaching important agreements, there are proposals that, like this, do not allow us to make a change in the model we want to have. What we're going to do is we're going to consensus it, and we can consensus it in the paper. This is a budgetary debate and, in this regard, our model, the model we seek to reach consensus, will allow us to operate in a very different way. Therefore, by sharing the need for EITB – I believe we all share it – to be an engine in the expansion of information and creation in Basque, we do not understand the opportunity of this debate that has just brought us today. I am not going to enter this first round in the amount of the budget increase that is being proposed. Well, I could come in, because, in fact, the original initiative talks about 10%, the whole Elkarrekin amendment We can talk about a 20, the director talks about a 25... Why not 15% and neither pa te nor pa me? Why don't you dondon kikilimón? Anyway, we could argue. But what we do say is that if the proposing group or the groups that have negotiated this amendment, in relation to this GNP, allow us to vote on points, we will vote in favour of the first and the second points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Madame Arriga is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief of Police, comrades of Parliament, is very nice to all of you. Well, we'll be a little serious again. The first reaction, at least, when we received this sense, was of surprise. The surprise, because it was in September, and we all know that with the beginning of the course, the preparation for the introduction of those budgets and budgets, is a good idea. This week, the Chief Sub-Potage Department has announced the Project of the 2020 Precedent Government Council, and, as I have said, this legislature has a great deal to say about the negotiation and acceptance of the fun-of-tributing budgets. So we were surprised at the original initiative, by removing this subject from the budget and bringing it to an ordinary meeting. Here's our first campo on this initiative. If we hold the budgets of 2020, we have to say that the Euscal Radio News budget is predicting to increase around 3%, that is, 7,5 million euros, I don't know where it came from, you've just said that it's coming down, but this budget that's offered for this week, it's about 3%. It's a significant promotion and no one can doubt that Euskalk's bet and an effort, so EITB's works and they're appropriate and quality. If there's room for improvement, yes, that's always the way it is, but do you really think that the attempts offered in ETV-1 have no quality? Do you doubt the work of these professionals? Because I'd bet you guys don't see much ETV-1. As Mrs. Aguirre has explained, the original initiative proposed 10% of the budget, so together Podemos said in its correction 20%. Mrs. Iturbe herself said, "I dare ask more than 20% of the day of EIB last week," here is 25, but I took a word from the transscription and mentioned 20%. In the end, the Basque People are required at the media agreed on by the Podemos to a 20% budget rate. But he's using the Euskal People in a cheating way, the expression of Love Iturbe. When Mrs. Iturbe made mention of this budget, it was a long exhibition of a number of anecdotes which she had already mentioned, which led to this percentage in general, but there are already many of them in progress, or they are to be put into action at the expense of the budget which is now in use. In EIB's normalization of eIB, and in his impulse he has a great deal of importance and business, no doubt it's from the strategic, no one doubts about it, or at least I don't think so. But this is not only according to the budget of ETB-1, the EIB integrity has this purpose, but it has a line across the terminal in EITB, and there are a lot of people that can handle and do what it does in the normalization of the support, and Mrs. Iturbe herself mentioned it in that statement. It has been discussed in this essay about the subtitles, the Euscala Gore has recently produced some interesting contributions around the subtitles, and I will not repeat how many times we've discussed in this form of reform, what work subtitles can do in the normalization of the sustainment, independently of access. As the Basque Gorak said of the board's board manager, there was a commitment to the 2019 December December December December to increase a subtitle programming program, and they are already listed the programs that are subtitled in this autumn's programming. And because the difficulty is difficult, that is to say, they are going to work before the end of the year. It's odd that on the 21st of October, this Monday, in the EIB Administration Council, the pre-designed budgets of EITB 2020 in EITB, we'd collect EH and meet together by Councillors in Podemos. They're overreacting. They didn't vote against the budget, they got paid off. Today the budget is demanded, but the representatives of your three-day parties have not reflected in the vote that had been given them. It's a contradiction, really. Do not the counselors of your parties think the same? It would be interesting to know the answer to that. And, on the other hand, I don't want to be repeated, but we all know that there's also power for EIB reform. That's where we're discussing the future of EITB. On the other hand, we don't know how interested the Basque People are to the whole meeting is the discussion of EITB and ETV-1's budget. Do we not really find logic to bring the themes out of the place where they are to be looked for agreements, or do we? Is it to put a bug in there? But we think it hurts the deep discussion, and it's not serious. In form, at least, it's not serious. For all this, we can't protect the media. As Mrs. Llanos said, if it were possible for us to vote on points, we would consent to that first point, not at all. But we can't vote "yes," because it's not a good shape, and you know this discussion isn't new, how many times we've talked about this before. It's not for that, we've got power, too. We believe that the aim is lost, and we do not believe that it is founded on a profound examination. The special programming you're asking for today's new technology enables you to develop it in different forms. Mrs. Aguirre, you yourself said it's not about money. What's he coming for, then? In three weeks, the budget measures will begin, and we're about to finish the performance. It's not serious.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing the answers, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u95	Thank you, ma'am. First of all, thanks to Mrs. Arana for the middle-way we've got. Mrs Llanos, ours is a tragedy, because I have timed it: of 12 minutes of your speech, I think we agree on 11. Even in why we need a debate that is going to say the same thing that they broadcast on other channels on the ETB program. One thing I don't agree with. The management of EITB may be bad, but the diagnosis, unfortunately, seems to me to be good. And that's the problem, that the diagnosis of the EITB Directorate I think is pretty good, pretty certain. And comparison with other autonomics doesn't work for me, because other autonomics only work in one language and ETB works in two languages. Therefore, it cannot be compared. Mrs Gallástegui, asking for a budget increase already in itself is a change of philosophy, which is what is needed, is to prioritize ETB-1 in front of ETB-2, to prioritize the Basque channel in front of the Castilian channel. The generous lady, the word, but no action. That's a shame. You speak of contradictions which we say are opposed, and you say "No" as a party. I don't know if you were out of the way when Mrs. Iturbe came in or you didn't read the report, but it's well received with the numbers: Calls up 25%, two-thirds of ETV-1. I'm glad you don't agree with the EIB Manager. I don't know if it's decoy. I have repeated what they asked, repeated their arguments, because I thought they were good, and I think they are right. As I said to Mrs. Llanos, the diagnosis is good. And besides, we confessed that we had a short time. And then we don't understand his attitude. In all your speeches, like today, you say like a mantra that the professionals of the EIB are very good. Isn't the EIB management good? Isn't it a good reading? Isn't what he's asking for good? Isn't the EIB director professional? Aren't they good professionals? Yes, even those who cook the faggots are good professionals, and even the ones that run the holy mass. The point is, maybe, that they're not the most interesting content, even if they're made in a very professional way, that's the difference. I have to correct you a data: You said the budget of EIB himself for 2020, I think you said that 3% have gone up, but I really think five percent is, according to my data, but that budget is directed to personality, not because EIB wanted it, but because the courts themselves forced ETB to do it. We think it's the budget consensuals, maybe the ETB Management says, yes, because, like you, it says beautiful words, but then it does something else. I think it's a lever like you. There you are, the rest of the world, the world of eucaine, when it's moving fast, it goes ahead of you, and there's no idea, no courage or I don't know what the problem is. Good words, yes, this first point that will be accepted is very good words, including y la parz el mundo, and it'll be fine, but there's no intention of action. Thank you for agreeing with the first point, and agreeing with it, but with it we will not solve the problem of EIB, but only confirm what the law itself says. We don't think we can stop spending any more time, it's time to decide, not just for EIB, but for all the rest of the media. The power is in progress, but with that excuse the years go by, and there's nothing to do here. Besides, such enterprises do not hinder what they do in power. I believe that it is in the same line, that it is the same philosophy that has led us here. I believe that intelligence is required to do good work, courage, and, above all, commitment, commitment to EIB, commitment to support, commitment to this people. That's what we're asking for because we want it and we deserve it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Arana, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u97	Well, I'll be very brief, what happens is that since I don't like to talk from the seat, I do it from here. Mrs Llanos, of course not everything the budget does, as you already know and know that we know the rest, but you will not deny me that it helps, that it helps to get them changed or reversed, probably, the mismanagement, the mishearings, and that we improve enough what is there for now. Mrs Gallástegui, look, it will not be for us that we are not going to close the presentation, we are the ones who have insisted most that the rhythms of the work of the presentation were agile, and I say to you the same thing that was said to your partner, to Mrs Romero: we are ready to talk, to work, to have an opinion as soon as possible, and to be able to be finished this year, but I also say that in the meantime we have to do things and we cannot stand still, because things can be done and many. And, Mrs. Arrizabalaga, I'm going to get into the concrete, because there are things that it's best not to get into, and you know what I mean. Euskal Gorrak said that 80 % of the subtitles had been committed by EITB in 2019: he had been committed to complying with the law that takes a long time, a long time without complying with it. And, of course, we do not question the professionalism of the ITBE staff, because we have never put it, we have always said it when it brings us out when we propose initiatives: one thing is management and the other the work of professionals. And as far as management is concerned, we have and believe that there are many shortcomings; as far as the work of professionals is concerned, we do not have a single but. And that the ETB-1 hearing is the one that is solely the responsibility of management and responds to some causes that need to be analyzed and tried to subvert. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u98	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Basque Popular, Mrs Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u99	Thank you again, Madam President. With regard to the subject of the paper, as I already knew it was going to come out, I mentioned it in my first speech. I think it's perfectly compatible. To try to steal debates because there is a paper, especially on an issue like this, does not seem appropriate to me, and, of course, the initiative seems appropriate to me, I think the approach is appropriate. Mrs Arana and Mrs Agirre, look how hard it is for me to disagree with you, because generally on the EITB issues we usually agree quite well, but I have to criticise you about this initiative: it is that I think you are making the fat broth to the management, because I think you are giving him the reason for that demand – yes, Mrs Arrizabalaga – because the demand came from the EITB Directorate, that it is a budget problem, is that I have little money. This is like what is said in law about bad payers, that they always have an excuse, the same. It's just that I have little money; it's just that it's not about money. It is that the problem is not a budget problem, I say again, it is a problem of redefining. Mrs. Agirre, I was comparing ETB with the rest of the televisions. Well, maybe we have to redefine, maybe ETB just had to be in Basque. What's going on? They don't want it to be just in Basque. Why? Because propaganda has to be done, and propaganda has to be done in Basque and Spanish, it will not be that the Erdaldunes do not understand the Government's propaganda and do not understand what Mrs Tapia says. So, of course, propaganda has to be done in Basque and Spanish, but maybe that's it, maybe it's that our TV would have to be just a TV in Basque to meet that goal that can only do a public service like ETB. And you were talking about the diagnosis, I agree with the diagnosis as to the hearings, and I told you the audiences of a television exclusively in the language of the community, in Catalan and in Galician: 14 almost, 10 almost, respectively. We didn't get to the two on TV in our language, and what's most audience is sport and mass, is that I've said it many times, is that it's to make him look at it. And here, I said it the other time, there is a parliamentarian sitting in this House today who, about the previous government, was talking about the projection of ETB-1, and, one of the pearls he was releasing is that Miramon's program production center was empty of content, that was said in 2010. How are they in 2019? And not for a year, as they did when they made those statements from the Basque Nationalist Party, is that they take seven or eight at the head of EITB, and we are much worse than in 2010, with which, won't the problem be a management problem? Won't it be a problem for the EITB Directorate? How is EITB being managed? I understand that self-criticism is difficult, it is that I believe that in the dictionary of the Royal Academy, next to self-congratulation, as a synonym, the Basque Government or PNV will appear, because with all the directions that touch me or with all the advice that touches me is exactly the same, that is, self-congratulation is the usual note. But I believe that the direction should be taken is why the hearings should not be resumed, if it is exclusively a budgetary problem. Instead of assigning huge amounts to friendly producers, always to them, some intimately linked with whom he is in charge at this time of the contract, and I will say names and surnames, such as Baleuko, sometimes without any competition and by direct award, would no more audience be obtained by investing in other issues? If we do not continue to award and commission programmes to them, whose programmes have to be withdrawn for lack of hearing, and they are immediately granted another, as I say, directly. If you rely more on the production and development of programs by the professionals of the houses, that there are many and very good ones, as I said. If Miramon's production center wasn't empty, if it was empty in 2010, it's now that straw bullets run through the halls. If some of that money were destined, for example, for doubling, as the other day we had occasion to see here, because it was also talked about that own production is important, but we will not pretend, with the budget of EITB to make a movie like Titanic, right? It will be much easier to fold Titanic and let the Basques see Titanic in Basque – I say, let's go – if part of that money, as I say, is used in the subtitle. Because in the times of economic boom that the director tells us – which always says that there was a lot more money in EITB's budget in the past – there were already problems of bending, because we were told the other day that they have 20 years with these problems. Our group believes that it is not, that not everything is arranged with an increase in budget, that it goes by changing the management, by changing the philosophy of the public environment, by a redefining, to comply with the contents contained in the Law of Creation of the Entity. It goes on to give priority to making an EITB that is an instrument at the service of Basque society, of promoting our culture, of the Basque language, of being a television that shows a closer reality; it goes on because it ceases to be an instrument of propaganda at the service of the Government and of an identity ideology. It goes through the implementation for which EITB was created; it goes, as I said, through a redistribution of the budget to give it to what really matters: to promote the euskera, our culture, our reality and not to the Government, to the identity reality and to the party that supports the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u100	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours. From here?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u101	President, if I may from the seat, with your permission and with Mrs Arana's permission, well, very briefly. The only thing I wanted to comment on was two issues. You say, Mrs Agirre, that a budget increase is already a change in philosophy. That may be true, but it usually isn't. In fact, the question is not whether we increase the money we can dispose of and what we can spend to keep doing the same. It's about not doing the same thing. What's more, we can even do much better things with the same money or less. If we look at the economic data provided by Mrs Llanos before, in relation to other autonomous televisions, we see that the per capita investment of our television is far superior. And that's an example just to keep in mind. And, indeed, I agree with Mrs. Llanos. What this is all about is basically this change in model, a change in management, a change in content, setting objectives, evaluating those objectives, investing in current programmes, own production, promoting the euskera... And for all that we need just as much money, but possibly what we need basically is a model change, an analysis of what we have to go to where we want to go. And what it's about, basically, is to define that in those jobs that we're doing, because, if not, for this trip we didn't need so many saddlebags. I am sure that in a short period of time – I believe that we will also be able to comment on it at one of the meetings – we will be able to arrive at a document in which we can make contributions and that, in the end, as soon as possible – we will be able to have a medium-consensuous document that will allow us to move towards Basque television, a Basque channel that will encourage Basque culture, that will foster Basque culture and that will satisfy all the principles that you are talking about, that you like to talk so much about gardening and ornithology, birds and flowers, that is very good, because they are the ones who really inspire the television that we have and that we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u103	Thank you again, Mrs. President. We've got it all figured out. Our team is clear about the work and management of the professionals, and also of the management, and we defend it and protect it, and we don't question it. "But you doubt all things, always and again, and defend them when it is convenient. Is it not that those who do not make ETB attractive to the Euskaldunes and the Euskaldunes are the parliamentary groups and not the contents? I'm asking. I'm asking. Mrs. Aguirre, about Mrs. Iturbe's performance, I won't enter. We have the transcript and... Yeah, yeah, I read it. Same here. But you've mentioned the contradictions, that they're ours, that they're contradictories and directors. We always share EIB's directorship. The budgets of 2020 present Monday have been voted for by the representatives of the EAJ in that commission of directors. Here it is. and the men of EH collect and of Podemos abstained. And why? You didn't answer. Whose contradictions are there? Words, as you have said, words, words, yours and actions, ours when you vote for us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Asked for stitches, I think there's no problem. The discussion is over, so we're going to vote, EH Collect, and the half-correction that Podemos has signed together. We'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 0; white, 0; 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u105	So the first point is unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 45; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u106	So the second point is not accepted. Five point in theme list: "The execution of the budgets which have not been committed in the development of the field of sports and culture and of the artistic and artistic domains of Carmelus Barrius Barroja Popula. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Barrio, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u107	Thank you very much, President. Lehendakari, counselor, counselor, good afternoon. I'll be brief, the hours are moving forward, and I think we can be brief. It's a subject we discussed the other day in an inquiry. For us, it was a question of non-compliance...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u108	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u109	... the extension of certain items in the Department of Culture and Sports. That was the question of interpellation. Of course, we are not satisfied with the answer, and that is why we have brought this motion to plenary. It probably doesn't go ahead, but we do want to value what the law says and what we agree to and the agreements we reach. It would normally have been that at this time of year this initiative would not have been an inquiry, nor a motion, but it would have been a request for information or a written question: whether or not Law 2/2019 had been complied with in its entirety, with the problems that might have existed. We would have liked to know the fulfillment of the same by departures. But it wasn't like that. That has not been the case and, of course, that request for information has to be an inquiry or a motion in relation to the questions we raised the other day to Mr Zupiria. I would like to recall – and I did so the other day as well – that Law 2/2019 of 14 February on urgent budgetary measures for the 2019 financial year in respect of remuneration and other aspects relating to the extension, in paragraph 2 of its second additional provision, states: "The extension of the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for 2018, during the 2019 financial year shall comply with the regime laid down in Title IX of the consolidated text of the existing legal provisions on the budgetary regime of Euskadi, adopted by legislative decree of 24 May 2011. In particular, it shall be understood to extend the expenditure authorisations for grants which are designated in the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for the financial year 2018, provided that it does not finance programmes or actions which, by their nature, should have been completed in that financial year." It's very clear, ladies and gentlemen. In any event, in response to a request for information on the extension of expenditure authorisations referred to in paragraph 2 of the second additional provision of that Law 2/2019, the Government referred to two types of expenditure, in fact: the nominative grants of the 2018 budget that were not included in the extended budget and the total amount of expenditure authorisations, which were not; and the nominative grants of the 2018 budget that were included in the extended budget and the total amount on which the expenditure authorisation has to be applied. It seems very simple, but it seems to the Government that it is not, because we are seeing that they are not being implemented and we are certifying and verifying it. And we're in October, finishing October, near the end of the year and the other day we get worried. I don't know. Someone will then have to go out to the rostrum because to say that he will vote against this initiative, but please, I ask you, especially the members who support the Government, to explain to us what Mr Azpiazu has told you regarding the agreement we reached with him for the adoption of Law 2/2019. The other day Mr. Zupiria didn't answer anything, because he had no idea. I had not spoken to Mr Azpiazu and he had his interpretation of the extension. He said he didn't know her very well, that she was new, but that she had her interpretation of the extension. But please, if anyone comes out who has spoken to Mr Azpiazu, let us know what is the interpretation of the extension and, above all, of the agreement reached with Mr Azpiazu for the approval of the law. Please tell us. Because we are having problems with this matter of the budgets and the agreements that are being reached. That is, this government does not comply with its agreements, or what? It did not comply with its agreements in the budget years with regard to the tax reform to which it had committed, on some issues that we had talked about and agreed on. It does not comply with its agreements on assistance to families with daughters and children, on family conciliation, matches like the ones we are commenting on, is it not? I mean, why is that situation like that? In this case we are talking about a very concrete thing. This was agreed and agreed with Mr Azpiazu, and that is why we approved and voted on Law 2/2019. The councillor, in the interpellation, did not understand, did not know that there was an agreement. Well, I didn't know. He interpreted the extension in his own way, but I suggested that he speak to Mr Azpiazu, and I hope that the spokesman of the Vaso Nationalist Party can tell me whether he has spoken to Mr Azpiazu and whether, in fact, Mr Azpiazu says that these games will not be extended and that they will not be fulfilled. In addition, the other day, in the interpellation, the Minister of Culture, told us that he had already found the formula for the extension. I had not spoken to Mr Azpiazu, but he knew the formula of the extension. And he said he took the money from the extended 2018 items, those that had come in the documented information, that were nominative items and that were extended. Then he takes the money from the extended items and uses them for whatever he wants. Careful. For whatever he wants, because he has a spending authorization. So, the money from the extended games I use it for what I want, right? Well, that's an incredible budget thing. It blows up all budgetary and administrative laws in relation to public expenditure. I mean, that's all tied up, Mr. Zuperia. That is why we have tabled this motion, because it is incredible: it has authority to spend those items for what it pleases. No, no, no, that's not it. That's not the case. That is, that the laws and budgetary rules are strict, they are strict. They may or may not comply. Compliance with the heading may or may not be carried out on certain issues, but all within the scope of compliance with budgetary and normal administrative laws. In other words, their interpretation blew up any budgetary rigour, any administrative rigour. I already know that this can be funny, or that they probably don't care much about opposition groups, they don't feel concerned. But they do have to account for the degree of compliance with some agreements reached with the Basque Government. Agreements are reached that are then not complied with, or there are very curious interpretations of that degree of compliance. For the third time, an agreement was reached with the Government, with Mr Azpiazu, for the extension of these items and for the adoption of Law 2/2019. It is a pity that Mr Azpiazu was not here today, either the other day, but, in any case, someone will have spoken to him. And we, in that sense, and after the substance of the inquiry, have tabled a motion and the motion is as follows: To urge the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy of the Basque Government and, by extension, the rest of the departments of the Government and entities and agencies thereof, that compliance with the agreement with Mr Azpiazu – this does not put into the text of the motion, I say this –, that in strict compliance with Law 2/2019 of 14 February, of Urgent Budgetary Measures for the 2019 financial year in the area of remunerations – because we were talking about this – and other aspects relating to the extension, where that question was, proceed to the material execution and, where appropriate, to their respective recipients of those budget headings containing expenditure authorizations for nominally allocated grants to those referred to in the second additional provision of the aforementioned Act of the Basque Parliament and which are more specifically related to those relating to the written reply sent by the Minister of the Department, dated 16 April 2019, to the request of parliamentary information. I have to tell you that the items were part of the negotiation of the 2018 Budgets on culture, on sports. Most were small or medium-sized games that affected sports clubs, cultural entities, who were waiting and who were waiting for such an extension, because they had effects that they understood, in short, in relation to their fulfilment. Well, I ask you to approve the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u110	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. We're going to the teams that don't run. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u111	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I would say to Mr Barrio, at the outset, that perhaps you were mistaken in the formulation, first of all of the inquiry, about who should be addressed, because you referred it to the Councillor for Culture and Linguistic Policy, and, for what you have come to tell us in the four minutes or five of your speech, you had an agreement with Mr Azpiazu and that that agreement has not materialized. Why didn't you then make the inquiry last Friday in full control of Mr Azpiazu? We would have known all of us, and it would have been of full knowledge and public knowledge if you had actually agreed or not to that famous Law 2/2019 in that agreement, because what you come to leave very sibilly on the table is that you had an agreement, which you did, as it turns out, at the back door, and now you want to publicly expose us all to a kind of disagreement or lack of agreement to carry out that extension and execution of the nominative subsidies. And something does not agree, Mr Barrio, and you are fully aware that you are bringing here quite tortuously a motion that is not what you came to put us in the literal sense in the motion, that in all government departments and entities and agencies dependent on them, based on that application of Law 2/2019, urgent budgetary measures in the area of salaries, are implemented and ultimately paid the extended nominative subsidies, which come from the Budgets 2018. Instead of that motion, I believe you have come to say today that what you want is the fulfillment of the agreement with Mr Azpiazu, the fulfillment of an agreement, the agreement that no one... Mrs. López de Ocariz, I'm commenting on Mr. Barrio, who has come to this rostrum. Well, you go out and I'll tell you. But I believe that the motion, by the intervention made by Mr Barrio, rather than the one that is literally expressed in the wording in writing, for what he has told us, must be a motion on compliance with the agreement reached with Mr Azpiazu. And we don't know that deal, Mr. Barrio. As I say, we're talking about a third party that you didn't question. He defocused the interpellation and has defocused the motion. You know that the second additional provision of the Emergency Measures Act has been complied with. The advisor told him how many nominative grants had been extended in his Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy, which were in the extension as spending authorizations. And you know what the spending authorization is, when it is so stated in the extension, which is what it is. You also have in writing each and every one of the nominative grants that have been extended, and each and every one of the grants that have been transferred, either because their nature ended in 2018 itself, or because they had even been moved to other departments throughout their execution, and what are those grants that were not extended, in the budget chapter of the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy. And you have that information in writing. I'm not inventing anything at all. And you know – we also share with the advisor the answer he gave in that full control – that these spending authorizations, until an administrative procedure for their implementation is initiated, do not produce a budgetary obligation. And, therefore, they do not produce a right to be acquired. They are only budget items. Since the Department of Doing has been establishing for all government departments that this will eventually mean that there are certain nominative subsidies that come from a budgetary agreement with the Basque People's Group in 2018, but these nominative subsidies have been extended by the fact that there has been no budgetary agreement for 2019. There was therefore automatic extension, with the three urgent measures laws in February to supplement this budget extension. You know – because the advisor also commented on this – that some of these nominative grants are against or do not respond to the objectives and direction that nominative grant items should have with the policies that the department has established. Just as simple and plain as that. Therefore, if there are subsidies that come from an agreement, but that arrive through a budgetary disagreement and that also go or are contrary to the political orientations of the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy itself, they will not be implemented, even if they are in the spending authorizations expressed in the budget extension. Just as simple and plain as that. But, I say it again, I think you, here at least, have been sincere. What you wanted to try was Mr. Azpiazu's agreement. For I would like you to make another inquiry, to see if we all know that whoever wants to put on the threshold of whether or not there was agreement is another counselor and not, in this case, the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy. Because you extend this motion in writing to implement the nominative grants, not only to the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy, but to all government departments. That is why he also comes to say in the motion that not only the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy, but the rest of the Government. And I can assure you that, of course, in the socialist departments or, at least, led by socialist leaders, they did not come to any kind of agreement that you are mentioning. Therefore, I repeat to you again, if you have any doubts about that agreement or not agreement or not implementation of an agreement that was made in the back room and now they want to put it in evidence in the public domain, make it public, ask who reached the agreement really, whether it reached that agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Together the representative of the Podemos team, Mrs. García, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u113	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. I'm going to do you all a favor and I'm going to be really brief. To conclude today's plenary session, it is up to us to discuss an initiative presented by the People's Group on the implementation of the outstanding budget lines for sports, cultural promotion and historical and artistic heritage. And this comes from afar, because Mr. Barrio has been making us part of his concern since September that budget lines should be implemented that are, for the most part, nominative grants, and included in the agreement signed with the Government in 2017 for the approval of the 2018 budgets. The government replied, and you, Mr. Barrio, decided to keep asking, because you did not like what you were told, but this time in a form of questioning the councillor. And I, who am a parliamentary woman who does her homework, have reviewed the videos of the October 11th full of control, where you ask for compliance with the law, in this case the laws of budgetary accompaniment, and I have checked how the Government replies almost the same as in writing, but with the difference that this time it is read in first person by the Councillor of Culture, Mr Zupiria, and they were kind enough to share it with all of us. So you filled more than 20 minutes of a full control, plus the twenty and peak of this motion. High politics, Mr. Barrio, that's high politics. And to our parliamentary group, to Elkarrekin We can, on the one hand, find it reasonable that all the laws are complied with, but you know that that does not happen and that is not the first time that that happens that way. As far as the Department of Culture is concerned, to which you refer, Mr Barrio, we do not find any more reflection than the fact that the budget headings are being paid. Apart from sharing some of the priorities, we do not share nominative subsidy policies. Because, it's true, it's a model that we don't like and that's much better. We also understand that those entities that receive them need that money for the development of their activities. In addition, in an ill-treated sector, such as the cultural sector and in the sports sector, a subsidy that does not arrive or that does not arrive in time can be a catastrophe. But not that way. Nominal subsidies do not like us, because they discriminate, because they are granted to fingers, because they are not the method for defining public investments and because they encourage clientelism. And to us, we have said it many times, we like public subsidies of free competition, to which anyone can turn on equal terms and where what is done is to value the project. So, frankly, it makes it quite difficult for us to find any reason to oppose compliance with the law, just as it makes it difficult for us to understand the purpose of a motion calling for compliance with the law and for the above-mentioned nominative subsidies to be paid, Mr Barrio. We will therefore abstain. And we ask you to look a little further into future interventions. There are many things to work on in the field of culture and in the field of sport, beyond the mantra of what is mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Doesn't EH Collect have to say a word? Very well, thank you. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u115	Good afternoons, ladies of Parliament, members of the legislature, and chief and lady of the department. Moment requires a concrete thing, and I shall also show a concrete position in the present day. We believe that this motion and this debate have two aspects: the legal and political aspects. I am not going to devote too much effort to the law; there is sufficient case law which concludes that there must be a positive administrative act in order to generate a subjective right in the recipient of the subsidies. I would therefore conclude with this our perception of the legal or non-legal way of proceeding from the Government. And in any case, if we were talking about a legal requirement of compulsory compliance, I understand that the request, Mr Barrio, would do it not only to a specific department, but to everyone, referring to all the subsidies, not to some, specifically. On the political side – I think it is the issue we have to deal with in this political forum – both the PNV and the Basque Socialist Party are parties accustomed to the pact, we know the value of the word and we try to take care of the commitments we have made. And we can discuss, we could discuss the degree of compliance with an agreement. We could discuss that. But to discuss whether or not there is an agreement... Look, we talked to the Department of Finance, obviously. But it is not necessary, being mere observers of reality, that we realize that there is no agreement. That is, on 1 January this year, the 2018 budget is extended because there was no budget law to replace it in 2019. And then the government brings three measures into one law. In view of the fact that it was not going to welcome the three of them as a whole, it presents them separately, and each party votes something different according to its conscience, its political ideology. So, what pact are we talking about, Mr. Barrio? You've repeated it five times. I think we have to honor the truth, there is no pact of any kind. It's not on the other side, it's the other day. you said, in interpelation, the vengeance of the Government. Most of the subenses have been applied and have been given. Most of the subsidents of which you composed the subsidies that you used to play, have been given in elucidation. There's no hostility. In the concrete case of the Cultural Department, 2 million and 2 million are given in the middle, most of it is given. So, what all the departments have done is a cool analysis, and they've given scholarships that match major political policies in 2019 and not matching. Therefore, I would urge the People's Party to stop trying to influence from the barrier with these small parliamentary trichinets, and to go great, to the budgetary negotiation that will be opened or that has already opened, for the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u116	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u117	Mrs García, we will be talking about this for another 20 minutes, because we will have to ask Mr Azpiazu, of course, because none of the spokesmen of the Government has taken us out of doubt. The truth is, I thank you for the kind of high politics you've given me here in these five minutes. I'll know what policy we'll have to do. I thank you for the advice, but I will know what policy we have to do in relation to the items, in relation to the interpretation of our agreements with the Government or in relation to the interpretation of the nominal headings of the Budgets. You don't like nominative games. Well, you haven't had a chance to negotiate some budgets yet. It seems that there is now that possibility, so we will see what kind of parties you make, what kind of agreement, but I do not assure you very lucky in your compliance with the Basque Government, I do not assure you. From what I've seen, I can't tell you. Mr Arruabarrena criticizes me, because I only mean Culture, and Mrs Corcuera criticizes me because, in addition to Culture, I mean all the others. I don't know, agree, please. If there is an agreement, because, Mr Arruabarrena, you have not spoken to Mr Azpiazu either. That is to say, neither Mr Zupiria nor Mr Arruabarrena have spoken in connection with the agreements. We have had budgetary agreements in 2017 and 2018, and the 2019 extension law in relation to staff salary increases and other issues related to the extension. We agreed and talked about it. In addition, the subject is removed by telling me, buh, that there is no administrative file As there is no administrative file, because the item is not fulfilled Well, that's a lack of seriousness. I thought they were gonna give me some more keys. Like Mrs. Corcuera, right? Well, it just hasn't been fulfilled. I mean, you don't know what we've negotiated with Mr. Azpiazu anymore. Let's see, Mr Azpiazu is the government finance adviser you support. That is to say, what Mr Azpiazu is doing with regard to budgetary matters, with regard to the matter of laws, affects you as well as these gentlemen, as does we who felt bound by that agreement. We are going to make a comparison with the government's budgetary arrangements. What about human beings, living beings? Well, they're born, they grow up, they breed and they die, right? It's the life cycle. What about another great generation of life? The stars. What about the stars? They are born, they grow, they die and they reproduce. Those epic, cosmic explosions, supernovas, the star dust that creates the most stars, that creates planets, satellites... Awesome! Create the neutrinos, going through everything... To ourselves right now. But what about the Basque Government's agreements? They're born and they're dead. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u118	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Not the Basque Socialists, not García, not the Bareas. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mr. Barrio Barroja's original motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents 55; white, 0; abstenations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-24.u119	So the original motion has not been accepted. Since we've finished the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and forty-one.
