ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let me inform you that the sixth point on the subject list has been withdrawn. Preceding theme: "To judge once for all the drawings of the whole of February 7 together, following the 92.1 article of the ruler, as to the other proposal made by the parlamentary Podemos, in all the schools supported by public funds in the euscal education system." It was a draw for the eubertist and the Basque Socialist in the vote of the universal corrections introduced by the teams. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we'll remake that correction. So we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 38; white, 0; abstinence, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u1	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. First point in theme list: "The bill of law to ensure the incomes of incomes on the income rates of 2019 urgent budget. Discipline and final resolution. "Mingorn has the word. A law project that corresponds to the first three points in the subject list will present them together within 20 minutes. Under you, sir, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. I'm here to make an official presentation of the three legal projects which will form the extension of the Basque General Preservative in 2019. There are several political measures connected with the budget, and all of them, though apparently different, constitute the sole initiative of economic character. Not one of them introduces any important changes in the legal institution which ought to be applied to the Basque officers or to the model of education, and much less in the system of eucalyptic protection which is carried forward by rents. As you all know, each of these public policies has parliamentary initiatives to encourage a new substantive regulation of the three subjects, but none for their budgetary scope, which corresponds only to the annual standard of budgets. I do so at once, because, in my opinion, it is still a normative block of a unitary nature, concise in its contents and of strict budgetary matters, and all this despite being three different initiatives in the form. A distinction which, as anticipated last week at the time of the adoption of the drafts by the Basque Government, has been made to avoid the serious risk that the opposition political groups in this House will prevent the measures envisaged in a single legislative draft from succeeding, probably for reasons far outside the proposed regulations and their contents. I will not be abounding on the points of form that have brought us to this situation of having to deal with three separate voting initiatives. Too much has already been said about this, and I believe that it is not always aware of what was being said, as confirmed in the report on legality drawn up by this House. But, at this point, it is also good that each group can express its opinion on each subject, on the basis of the ideological freedom that every initiative motivates it. This Government knows that it has no budgets for the year 19. He also knows that every effort has been made to ensure that there are, and knows better than anyone, that he has to continue to govern this exercise with a budgetary extension. An extension that, with its clear limitations, has to be addressed from the point of view of responsibility. Responsibility that makes certain policies, which are needed by law for their implementation, must be immediately addressed as has been usual in the past and, as I believe, now proceeds. They are not minor policies, but, above all, they are unsustainable policies, for coherent action and for the cohesion of our society, or this is what the Government thought when it proposed in an absolutely normal way intrinsically positive content, balanced as a whole with the political positions of the parliamentary groups, without any regulatory abuse and with an agile model of parliamentary processing. What was not possible was to reproduce the budget debate, since it was not appropriate: it had already taken place. This is not the budget. These are budgetary measures, yes, but limited and direct, with which one can agree, or otherwise, but which do not require negotiation, since, moreover, there is not much room for manoeuvre in the proposed measures, because they are, apart from the issue of income guarantee income, legal maximums to which one can access. They are measures for a limited period of time, moving towards the general regulations of each public policy, on which this Parliament will have to pronounce, let us wait sooner than later. As far as specific projects and their content are concerned, there is not much to be said that is not already known. I myself tabled them in the Committee on the Draft General Budgets for the financial year 19, on 6 November of year 18, and in the plenary of the amendments to the whole budget on 11 December. That is why I shall refer briefly to what has already been transcribed in the memoirs of the accompanying projects as parliamentary documentation and which I assume you all know well. All in all, these three bills aim to establish a number of provisions that complement the budgetary extension regime, with the aim of authorizing certain expenditure, for which there is no authority in the extended budget, and which, in accordance with the existing legal provisions on the budget regime in Euskadi, require the granting of additional appropriations and, therefore, a rule of law. Thus, in the first of them, certain expenditure authorisations intended to increase staff salaries and liabilities by a percentage of 2,25 % compared to those in force on 31 December 2018 are updated. It also sets the budget allocation for the Basque Parliament for the 2019 financial year, in accordance with the budget approved by the House itself last December. Finally, it updates the amount of the fees for the current financial year, with an increase in the 1,5 %, in respect of the amount payable in year 18. This is complemented by a number of provisions empowering the Government and the Department of Finance and Economy to carry out the necessary budgetary operations, up to the limit of the contributions foreseen for this financial year and with the guarantee of compliance with the parameters of budgetary stability and financial sustainability. This project will enable the salary increases of the officials and workers of the Euskadi Autonomous Community Administration to be addressed and, in addition, the sectoral commitments made in this area in terms of health and education, basically, will be sufficiently addressed. It also opens up all the possibilities allowed by the basic legislation in this area and extends them to the maximum possible in surplus administrations the previous year, as is the case with the Basque Administration. This rule therefore modifies the general extension scheme and does not condemn the Basque official to a mimetic salary increase, at most, to that of the previous financial year. The rest of the regulations included in the law are also important, although, from a strictly credit point of view, they are more adjective. Thus, the budget of the Basque Parliament, with an increase of less than EUR 1 million over the year 18, and the general increase of the rates of the Basque Autonomous Community, which represent less than half a million euros of increase in the state of income, are two witness measures which also require law and, in the first case, additional appropriations. In the second of the draft laws, the budget allocation for the University of the Basque Country for the financial year 2019 is set out in accordance with articles 90 to 93 of Law 3/2004 of 25 February of the Basque University System. The components of the staff costs of the modules of the educational concerts for this exercise are also updated, ending with the authorization of the Government to carry out the budgetary operations necessary for this purpose. These are measures that traditionally form part of the content of the general budget laws and, failing that, of the budget measures laws, similar to those adopted in previous years. On the one hand, as provided for in the Basque University System Act, the annual allocation to the UPV must be agreed by the Government for each budget year and included in the Draft Law on General Budgets of the Autonomous Community. In the absence of such a bill, it is appropriate to include such measures in a law for the purpose of establishing the allocation required for this exercise, without extending the allocation provided for in 2018. On the other hand, in the case of the modules of the educational concerts, the updating of their amounts for the 2019 financial year allows the translation to the concerted teaching of the salary increase of the public non-university teaching staff, automatically from the law. And while this is a strictly budgetary measure, it is well known that the Government has been working on measures that could help address demographic reality or strengthen support in the field of special education, to contribute to educational improvement and to help normalize activity in the concerted school. Finally, the third of the draft laws provides for two social policy measures that are only affordable from a legal standard: Thus, through this project, on the one hand, the amounts of income guarantee income in its different forms are updated and the supplementary monthly allowance for single-parent cohabitation units is updated. The overall increase is 3,5 % compared to that applied during the 2018 financial year. However, this increase will be 4.5% for those living units made up of persons receiving pensions. With regard to the amount of income guarantee income, the draft law provides for an increase in excess of that provided for in the draft General Budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community for the financial year 19 and very close to which the staff expenditure chapter in the Basque administration will rise. This is, in the view of the Government, an economically affordable increase in the current financial year, pending the final regulation that this Parliament can adopt on the basis of the proposed legislation currently under way. On the reasons behind the proposal for this percentage increase, it can be noted that the considerable increase in the inter-professional minimum wage for the 2019 financial year allows for a greater increase in income guarantee income, without such a measure being directly disincentive to the search for employment for recipients of that benefit at working age. On the other hand, I will not deny that this percentage change now proposed is also due to the Government's willingness to raise as much consensus as possible on improving the level of these benefits for the most disadvantaged groups, making a special effort on the part of pensioners, who receive income security income. Therefore, from the assurance that none of the opposition groups is capable of generating a higher consensus than the government in this Parliament on this issue, we sincerely believe that this is a proposal for consensus. We believe that this is a very reasonable proposal for the generality of the political forces present here, probably without contenting anyone at all, but without condemning income-guarantee income collectors to a rise in income-guarantee income. 1.5%, identical to the previous year, whether pensioners or not. I would like to understand that, in the light of the statements made by some political group a few days ago, this has been appreciated, and I am grateful for that. In addition, this bill also provides for the repeal of the sixth additional provision of the Euskadi Autonomous Community General Budgets Act for the financial year 2018; the legal rule applicable under the extension regime during the financial year 19. This provision, introduced for the first time in the financial year 2012 in order to contain the deficit, refers to the reduction in the amount of certain aid, subsidies and economic benefits, and in particular to the reduction by 5 % of the benefits provided for in Decree 177/2010 of 29 June 2010 on aid for the reconciliation of family and working life and its development rules. With regard to the appropriations required for the financing of the expenditure measures provided for in the three draft laws, which amount to around EUR 247 million, it is envisaged that they will be financed from the revenue obtained from the largest contributions planned for this year by the Basque Public Finance Council in October, as well as from treasury remnants. The provision of increased revenue during this financial year therefore allows the financing of the measures envisaged, without prejudice to the fulfilment of the objectives and commitments entered into by the Basque Autonomous Community with regard to budgetary stability and financial sustainability. So far the content of the projects, but I would not like to finish this intervention without a brief reflection on the short-term procedure chosen by the Government for the processing of this rule. Certainly, the criticism – and the suspicion – with which the single reading has been received, for the, in principle, the only law incorporating the budget cuts now presented, has been somewhat surprising. And I say amazing. The choice of this procedure, whose regulatory adequacy has been strongly endorsed by the legal services of this House, made it precisely that the content of the project, now projects It was not a question, as I mentioned earlier, of reopening the debate and negotiation on the content and scope of the budgets for this year, but of pressing the opinion of the opposition groups on the implementation of these measures, and, as far as possible, of their accession or support for the adoption of these measures by this Parliament, even if it is not a passive rule, by abstaining from it. I must also say that none of these groups raised any reservations or objections to the content chosen during the discussions with them, nor did they propose the possible inclusion of other measures of a similar nature. Therefore, the Government can hardly be accused of trying to act proudly against the opposition and of violating its rights to debate or amend the Government's legislative initiatives. Nor does this unique procedure of reading and voting appear to have been questioned in the validation of real decrees laws with similar content in other parliamentary chambers, and even with much smaller minorities. It's not time to look at the procedure, and we need to see that these measures will bring immediate benefits to more than 1500,000 families in the Euskata. These are positive measures, which do not enter into elections, and which are necessary, and with humility, to demand your opinion in favor of these projects of laws, because I am sure you will understand that the right, the just, and the useful to the whole eupscal society. I do not think it is time to look at the procedure and we should be aware that these measures will benefit immediately and directly more than 150,000 Basque families. We believe that these are positive measures, and therefore, without electoralism and with due humility, I come to ask you to support these bills, in the assurance that you will find them reasonable, fair and beneficial to all Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Let's start a side shift. Who wants to be on the side shift? Yeah? Anything else on the side shift? No. Well, then, Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u4	Thank you, President. Lehendakari jauna, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. After a few weeks of discussion with the Rules of Procedure and even knowingly, on the part of everyone, that what was being done was in line with what is provided for by the rules of this House, and a few more days of "that we all cost citizens alike", the day has come when we have to say what we want to do with the resources available to us in a situation of budgetary extension. And the Socialist Group comes, to this plenary, with the vocation to give certainty and answers to 55,380 people who in 2018 were recipients of income guarantee income and who expect their government responsibility to meet their demands and direct and urgent needs. We come to Parliament today with the intention that the greater economic resources of the citizenry, which has left in the hands of the government a number of resources through its taxes, will be returned to them in the form of greater income remuneration, because they will accelerate greater economic activity in Euskadi. We want them to be returned in the form of a guarantee of the education system and also greater social investment. In short, what we intend to do is to promote a return close to 250 million euros to citizenship. And we believe that this economic and social return to citizenship must take place within the exclusive competence of the Government, which is to propose the economic measures that make these commitments possible, in a shared responsibility with those who have been elected and elected by the citizen to represent it, so that the decisions we take today will reflect on the improvement of the life of Basque citizenship. And he said that we are coming to promote that return, because the Basque Government is going to have more economic resources, because, contrary to what some people have been trying to say outside and inside this House, the latest tax reform, which some have demonized since supposed leftist purity, has shown that it was effective and fair, because it has progressed in progressivity, progressed in paying more those who most enter and has had particular relevance to corporate tax. And it is not understandable that, when more economic resources are available to the Basque Government, these, due to an extension, remain in the treasury box and are not returned to the citizenry in the form of direct improvements for their lives. It is not understandable to the Basque Socialists that, when the government's accounts can be influenced the most, they should be renounced. The Socialists do not accept the condemnation, the resignation... of the government in which we participate, which some have also proposed and continue to propose, and today we will certainly also have an opportunity to hear it. That is what we said when the possibility of a budgetary agreement two months ago – in December – in the whole budgetary debate, and that nobody gets confused, that chapter negotiation did not, unfortunately, but there ended the negotiation, although some decisions not to negotiate had already been taken earlier. For Elkarrekin Podemos, the negotiation ended more than two years ago, when the legislature began and decided to stay in a corner, where nothing could compromise them or leave them, neither in speech nor in title. For the People's Party, the budget negotiation for 2019 had ended on June 1, because it wanted to take revenge with the Basque Nationalist Party and had not digested the investiture of President Pedro Sánchez by then. And for Euskal Herria Bildu, the negotiating adventure ended when he wanted to bring that negotiation back to a sort of alternative Basque pension system that we have, using the generation of false expectations among retired people. The Basque Socialists have never wanted to stay in the comfort of the seat. And those of us who look from Euskadi at what is happening and what needs Euskadi, who do not want to deceive the pensioners, are working to ensure that tens of thousands of Basques are not harmed by the legitimate but questionable political decisions of others. And this is the procedure followed for this bill and the two bills that we will see below. A procedure that has always been used. The one used by the governments of the lehendakaris Ibarretxe, Patxi López or Iñigo Urkullu before, the one used by the governments in which we were socialists or the Basque Nationalist Party or Eusko Alkartasuna or Ezker Anitza. And already entering into the content of this bill, referring to the increase in income guarantee income and the repeal of the sixth additional provision, the socialists consider it a social chapter aimed at those who have less, those who need this most urgent support from the Basque public administration, those 55,380 people. And in this matter there is no deception, the original draft budgets, which could not go forward, already covered these two issues, although in the case of income guarantee income it is true that with a more moderate increase, which has already explained to the Finance Advisor what is the reason for the increase that is now proposed. However, in the months following the preparation of the budget project and during its processing, we were seeing how the collection, thanks to the tax reform applied, which seems to some to have been forgotten, allowed for a greater commitment of solidarity. And so he moved to the only parliamentary group that lent itself to budgetary negotiation for 2019. And he was also transferred to Euskal Herria Bildu, at that time of negotiation, which is not the current one, which we were not going to do or will do is a parallel pension system, which was the proposal that Euskal Herria Bildu actually made, with that idea of individualization that has nothing to do with the income guarantee income model that we currently have in force. And I say that we have in force, because, if the Basque Socialists had depended on it, this system of protection would have been reformed already from the proposal that we have registered with the Basque Nationalist Party. If it had been for the Basque Socialists, we would have perfected that model with a clear distinction between those who have to resort to income-guarantee income but aspire, above all, to stop relying on it, and those who, by virtue of their pension status, have no expectation of improving their income if it is not through this supplement. If it had been for the socialists, we would already have a model that would guarantee in each household with two pensioners an income of at least 978 euros, together with the housing supplement of 250 euros. Because that is what is foreseen in the amendment of the rule that Euskal Herria Bildu and other parliamentary groups asked the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party to leave parked for the moment, and that is what we are talking with all parliamentary groups without exception, to see if we are able to channel this matter into a model that really serves the most vulnerable collective of Basque society. Knowing that we have our differences, but also knowing that, above all, what binds us to this great majority in the House is the conviction about the strength of our social protection system. And that was our idea and we approached it without waiting for reform, in this bill that we are going to have the opportunity to vote on today. That is not all some groups would like, but I do believe that we should not neglect these economic increases for those who receive income-guarantee income, who are, as I say, the most vulnerable groups in our society. More can be aspired, there is no doubt about it, and it is very legitimate, but the moment and the negotiating reasons have already been given and rejected, no agreement has been reached. And you can aspire to another social model, of course, and that aspiration is at a table of talks, apart from this issue that we were bringing here today to plenary. We can aspire to conform to the way in which the proposal we are debating today is not approved. It can also be made up of 3.5% and 4.5% for pensioners, if we come to approve this proposal, if there are reasons here and we portray each other. From the Socialist Group, we hope that this opportunity for improvement will be given to the most vulnerable groups. The People's Party has said publicly that it does not explain why the income guarantee income increase, which is greater than that of civil servants' salaries, that of the rise in the average income of workers and that it is a discrimination with which, it is underlined, they are contributing, and seems to us to be a rather incomprehensible argument to oppose this bill. We find it incomprehensible in a party that considers itself to be of order and stability, despite the fiscal misconception that has just been organized in Álava by the hand of Orine Araba and Bildu, not knowing that the vast majority of income-guarantee recipients, those 55,000, more than 55,000 people, are women, are 57.8% of income-guarantee recipients in 2018. They are people who are in a bad situation, precisely because of their economic and labour precariousness, because of their difficulties in accessing the labour market, because they cannot or cannot be allowed to contribute in conditions. It seems incomprehensible that it should not be taken into account that among the 55,380 currently receiving persons, together with the 15,000 pensioners, there are also more than 10,000 people who are workers, who contribute, who actually contribute, but with salaries so small that they have to be supplemented by their income, thanks, among other things, to the labour reform, of which the People's Party knows something more. And it is incomprehensible that the argument they use does not take into account that there are another 12,000 collectors over the age of 55, mostly unemployed for a long time, those to which the People's Party Government left without subsidy, which has had to be recovered by the Spanish Government of Pedro Sánchez, and that they would not have had another economic resource, if it were not for this income guarantee income. And it is incomprehensible that it is not taken into account that there are also 8,000 cases of supplemental benefits for single-parent families. And I would like to know why the People's Party does not take into account these special circumstances of vulnerability in income-guarantee income earners, when the economic circumstances of the Government allow for a greater effort, a solidarity effort to increase income-guarantee income by 3.5%. The argument they have been using is, moreover, quite incomprehensible – even insulting, I would say – and it is not that we have thin skin, and less recently. The Socialists' commitment is not to convert income-guarantee earners into a permanent subsidiary collective. Our aim is to continue to give them the opportunity to join the labour market and to do so in decent conditions. That is why the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage is important, that is why the plan to combat labour fraud, which has regularized thousands of contracts in Euskadi, is important, that is why the plan to combat the wage gap is important. And we have already achieved in two years of parliamentary term, here in Euskadi, that opportunities are beginning to be found and we have managed to get 10,000 families to stop having that dependency on income guarantee income, and in the proposed income guarantee income reform we want to deepen our inclusion tools. But, in the meantime, as long as we achieve that goal, the Socialists remain committed to the fact that no one can be left to his own fate, that no one can be deprived of a minimum, decent and dignified income, and that, we are also convinced, that such income must be updated and increased to the extent that the Government has economic possibilities. In the meantime, we also continue to take steps, from the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, to fulfil one of the commitments we adopted last March in this Parliament, without the support, by all means, of the People's Party, calling for economic recovery to reach the general public, prioritizing the most disadvantaged or worst-off groups in the years of the economic crisis. Because it is not a matter of wasting public money or wasting public money, as some political group, some parliamentary group, such as the People's Party, seems to want to understand. What this is about, what we are discussing, is to have an active commitment to solidarity and social cohesion in the Basque Country, fighting economic vulnerability and social vulnerability. That is the proposal that the Basque Socialists are going to support in this House today, that of investing in social cohesion, that of relief, that of providing relief to thousands of families, while designing a better model than the current one and with sufficient consensus. To that end, we call for the support of the rest of the parliamentary groups for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. I should say that everything is said already, and the chief physician has been more than able to present the three projects of the law which we are going to be able to discuss today. And Mrs. Corcuera has also defended herself. And maybe we should remember again, because it's important, why we've arrived at this moment. The last four months of last year, in this parliament, was the most violent budget ever presented. He introduced himself to the budget of the biggest social expense ever presented: He planned more $13 million for the Medical Department, 4,5 for education, 7,5 in different investments, nearly $15 million more for the apartment. But in the Basque Country, Euscadin, the possibility of a better life for our fellow-citizens was lost. And then he was lost because of the inhibiting attitude of different political parties in opposition. As far as Podemos, together from Podemos, to the Pilla. And we were really convinced that this would be the last outcome. We'd leave the maximal attitudes aside and be able to reach this middle course. That's how I think they saw him when they were at the negotiational team and I think he had a strong and respectful letter and an order and a relationship, but we lost our chance. However, it was from fun to say that it would be impossible for this people to have as little damage as possible, to avoid the harmful consequences of entering an extension. In that idea, M.M. was introduced here by M.M., in order to receive a bill of law, and by a process of transfer, as the regulation says, and is always done in other places. But at this moment, perhaps, the opposition groups once more began to think of this instigating attitude: "The noise is good enough for argument," and they made the road, noise, and noise. The three principles which determine the division of power in the budget do not appear to be clear: the division of functions, of what concerns the executive, and of what concerns the legislative power; the co-ordination of which we must have the budget. to be able to develop between the Executive and the Legislator Power; and to give up the Inconsistence of Jurisdiction. – irrenunciability of user competences And also that it has four different phases: You have to admit that it's a law-maker, that it's us, that it's us, that it's a job, that it's fun, that it's us, that we have control. It looks like there's a lot of difficulty in understanding that the budgets are in the power of making the budgets. The self-critic attitude has been reviewed, or has been told that he has a self-critic attitude, when he has always done what he has always done, when he has continued the established process, and in other places the will to protect him not here. However, this may be the case, a legal report is required here, and the juridic report says: Yeah, it's the right way, it's the rule, and it's okay. And yet, as his will appeared to him that he could and couldn't, he made up his mind again: Let us take this, though it be a well proposed proposition, and present it in three other billies, in order to give it the way. That's the way it is. That was my will to go on, because all the suggestions that were there were for the sake of Euskadda. The 150,000 families would benefit directly, and it would be around 280 million that would be directed to it. We all know what proposals are, but we do not know what will happen in certain cases; In the case of Podemus, it seems that this obstacle attitude will be passed by certain proposals, and we are grateful to this attitude. In other particular cases, we have agreed to some proposals in the sciences, and we believe that this is the way we have followed in this country, and the way we have followed. We don't know what the popular party will have in certain proposals. He has sometimes said that he will refuse the unbearable, which, in our opinion, is to be attributed to the foregoing explanations, but there is another legal proposition which we think we ought to protect; we think they are all capable of agreeing. And in the case of EH Collectors, we don't know what attitude he's going to have either. But how is it possible to understand that the wages of public workmen will be opposed to increase? To ensure the income will be opposed to the rent ascent? That most of the poor will be opposed to those who have them? And above all, the pensioners won't give more help? Or that there's that risk of getting back in support of the boarded school or the university? You're requested from our team that we can overcome this stumbling-down attitude. All this will be for the benefit of a concrete social model; human development bearable. That's what they're proclaiming from the President of AHM and all the other leaders and all the spokesmen bearing human development. That's the kind of pattern this town has. I think it's a very special model for everyone to be proud of. And I think that, even in the way we make politics, we should claim a pattern and exhibit a positive method of politics. Keep away from other things, and, if we are modeled in our social model, let us be models in the model of politics. It is well to make an opposition in part, but not too much. That's why our legislative team, you know, head of department, vote for the three legal propositions. In this point, or in this assembly of laws, we shall discuss it, and in the next two we shall go to a vote. But we'd be grateful to all of us to make an effort and understand the boundaries of the fun with respect to the regulations and the budgets, and to understand what fun has done in different areas, when all the legal teams are ready to present proposals to protect them. A middle-way proposition has been made, and we believe that at a time when we are all inclined to agree or protect them, we should be a model for politics. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. On the other side? Yes, Mr. Damborenea, his word is represented by the Basque Potula Group. And find out too? Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today's not a bad day for the Basques. The high-speed train again appears in the state budgets, so that it will arrive in 2023, instead of 2025; the diesel tax is not going to rise us and other taxes that were not planned either. So, we don't get off to a bad start today. We are in at least a peculiar process; because, at the moment, we have five bills – proposals for legislation – amending the budget extension, and the Bureau would have to say about this in the end. Today we will see three and there will be two, and I say that it is, at least, rare that we have five bills, which deal with the same issues. But, well, today we're in this one. We have not discussed the formula chosen by the Basque Government. It's a government decision. We may not agree very much with the urgency of some measures in the formula chosen by the Government. For example, now that we are talking about GIR, what is the urgency to raise the GIR 3.5? Why is it urgent? Can anyone explain it to me? No, I have not heard any of the groups supporting the Government why it is urgent, all of a sudden, to raise the GIR to 3.5. The councillor has said it well: he sought our opinion from the groups and we gave it to him, Mrs Gorospe, we did not put any obstructive attitude. Of what he told us we told him two things: one, we don't like the GIR going up more than the officials or more than the salary going up on the street, and that's not what we're going to support; and two, the concertee is underfunded. Those two things we told him. What was the government's decision? Keep them and bring them in for one reading. And what did we tell him? Listen, we'll vote no. We have shown no obstructive attitude; we have not refused. We said that we were voting in favour of it, if it maintained the rise of the GIR, which the Basque Government itself was bringing, of 2.25 in the budgets for this year, a month ago, and now it is urgent to go up to 3.5. This is your model. This is a government that, I do not know, is aware that it is in a minority. He tells us: no, we have brought the most consensus proposals. Listen, because we told him, before he brought him in, that we were going to vote no. Look at the consensus. We will be the ones to say what we agree with and what we disagree with. Are you going to tell us what we have to agree on? Or is this government going to tell us what we have to agree on? Well, obviously, no. It is a minority Government, which has used the technique of tragala, and has also taken officials hostage. And he says, since it's going to hurt the officials, we're going to put the GIR in here, we're going to put... I'm surprised you haven't had any more incidents, huh? They have had the salaries of the officials hijacked, which, by the way, is in March and in January could have risen to 1.7, which was foreseen, up to 2.25 in the current extended budget law, 1.7. In January they could have climbed 1.7; they have not, this Government has not. It has failed to comply with the current budget law. He's frozen their paychecks to get to this moment. Is there any measure that this Government has proposed to us in these three bills that affects people who do not live on the budget? Any? Any? None. Mrs. Corcuera was telling us about the kindnesses of our income-guarantee system, and I'm not going to discuss the kindnesses, but I can tell you about the not-so-kindnesses. How is it possible that we have twice as many beneficiaries as the Community of Madrid, which I do not know if it has four or three times as many people as we do, and almost three times as many as Andalusian women, who do not know how many people it has? And I don't think Andalusia is a dungeon of rich autonomous community where people live fantastic and earn a lot of money, because the level of unemployment is stratospheric, compared to Spain. And you have ruled until before yesterday; something seems not to fit well in these things. Or that you tell us about the long-term unemployed in Lanbide, and doesn't Lanbide work? And he's incapable of managing jobs for those people. And that, whose responsibility is it? The labour laws or the inability of this government? That this past year private employment has been destroyed, which in the end sustains all these ups and downs, to create public employment. And more people dependent on the public budget, that's what's going on, that's what brought us here today in the three bills: increasing the salaries of all those who live on the public budget and no measures. Well, we've been lucky that we haven't gotten VAT on the rest of the mortals, huh? Sorry, not VAT, diesel. This is what they brought us here. Measurements, zero. Wasn't this, the budget they had brought us, the most investor in history? Any investment forecasts? Because here, in other legislatures, urgent reform bills have come, and we want this investment that was not planned. They didn't bring any of that. They did not bring any of that, neither to promote employment, nor investment in R & D, and that there was an agreement here to raise 5% in R & D; neither did they bring it. And I say, that one did have a consensus. But they didn't bring her either. Is there money, Mrs. Corcuera? Yeah, of course there's money. But there was also more money in December. EUR 600 million more there are, 250 more or less bringing us here for increases in public employment salaries. Another 200 that will not be issued out of debt by the councillor, who is saving for the following. And there's more than 100 million that don't come here, more than 150, more than 150, Mrs. Corcuera. And where are they? What are they going to spend or invest in? Of course, this government comes here, brings us three proposals, we have to vote for them because yes and where are the EUR 150 million that do not come from these proposals, Mr Lehendakari? What are they going to spend or invest in? To raise the salaries of who? We're missing this here. We know there's more money, Mrs. Corcuera, but there's the same more money. They're telling us that this is our model or your social model, and in December, what was it? What was the social model in December of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party? You brought us a proposal to climb the RGI on 2.25, like the officials; that was supposed to be your model. A year and a half ago, did we not agree and agree that the GIR did not have to be referenced to the minimum wage? What does saint now come to say that, as the minimum wage rises, now we have to raise the GIR more? If we agree here, we vote here, yes, yes, Mr. Counsellor, on your own initiative. And now, why are you telling us that as the GIR goes up there's... as the minimum wage goes up, we have to go up the GIR? What's that got to do with anything? What's that got to do with anything? Nor does he propose the same climb. It was the only excuse I've heard from you to say that we went from raising the GIR from 2.25 to 3.5; the minimum wage, which we all agree was not good and we took it off. What is the only difference from December here for the Basque Government, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party to come up with the initial proposal they had and there was more money, Mrs Corcuera, to raise the GIR from 2.25 to 3.5? The negotiations with Bildu, the negotiations they had throughout December with Bildu, to basically raise the GIR. And we told the councilman that Bildu would have raised that, but we didn't and that we weren't going to vote for it, because our social model is radically opposed: we don't want a society of grantees, Mrs Corcuera. And to the counselor we said, "Hey, the pensioners want you to raise the 4.5; we're willing to get them up more, if you want, that you have money." That's what we told him, and we voted for him. Now, the non-pensioners, like the others, like the others, like the others, which they have not done... Why? To do a wink, as the counselor said, to Bildu or Podemos or both, because, apparently, this was going to have a lot of consensus. And where is the consensus? Because in favor... The consensus must be between the members of the Government, because we are acting against it and we are going to vote against it, and the others will abstain. Is this the consensus, the draft consensus that the Government has brought? It will be the consensus within the Government, because with the rest of the House, we do not see it at all. We have had no obstructive attitude, Mrs Gorospe. Moreover, we have offered to approve these measures to the Government and vote in favour of the measures; but, of course, we had to agree with all of them. Because a minority government – and we told Mr Sánchez the same thing – can take advantage in one case of the actual decrees laws, in another case of the proposals for a single urgent reading bill, in which no amendment is made; but it is clear that, with what we agree, we will vote in favour, but with what we do not agree we will vote against. And if a minority government intends, using this procedure, to collate things with which we disagree, we will vote against. And I'm warning you right now for subsequent pieces of legislation, just in case. Because if you intend to rule in cachos or in pieces it seems very good to me, but with us do not count. And we are not going to allow, because we are in favour of some measures, others, with which we are radically opposed. And if you want to understand it, and if you don't, you don't understand it, but it's you who are in the government, and we don't. We are in the opposition – constructive, by the way – because we told them how we approved these measures. They did not want to listen to us, and they have moved forward with their measures, of course. The Government had the second success in a month, it had to withdraw its bill, the second. First the December budget, and now this one. And now he brings us this other cut, to see how it hangs, to see how it hangs... This is not a way, let's say, very serious to rule... Man, Mr. Sánchez, at least, carried seven royal decrees laws, but already from the minute one: those of wages on the one hand, and the others on the other. Seven came to take, to see which were approved and which were not, and who were voting for some and who were voting for others. But this, with budgets with an extension, can be done, and you can cut, with the rest not, with the rest of the laws not and with the rest of the projects not. And therefore, as this measure, this rise in the GIR, has absolutely no argument, I have not heard either of the two groups explain to me why they changed their opinion from December to January, that in December it was good 2.25 and now it is good 3.5, because, of course, we do not believe any of the things they are saying, because the only thing that has happened was the negotiation with these gentlemen, it was the negotiation with these gentlemen and that is why you have moved on to that model, but it is that of these gentlemen. And the communist models, these of which everyone pays the same, works or doesn't work, and so and I don't know what, we already know how they work, isn't our model. There has to be RGI, yes; but there has to be a Lanbide that works and RGI is a step away from being in RGI to work, except, of course, pensioners. But the people who are in the labor market what they have to do is work. Aren't we the autonomous community with the least unemployment? And how is it possible that we have twice as many beneficiaries as Andalusian, Mrs. Corcuera?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u9	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u10	Good morning, everyone. I shall, luckily, take little notice of him to-day with Monsieur Dambore, but I shall not, in some things, but fortunately, think of him with the beginning of his discourse. He said it's a good day for the Basques now, and I'm not at all satisfied, it's a day of reduction for the Basques today, a morning of reductions, because at this time some restrictions will be completed. It's true that these restrictions, in some cases, are disguised as climbs, but they still have restrictions in the brain. And there will be restrictions on two planes: On the one hand, as far as the budgets are concerned, they will be reduced in several respects, because it will be less given to the Basque State than to the university, because it will be paid less to public officers than they are to the public than to the public, and to those who receive the income, and to those who receive the hire of money, will give them less than they ought to do, and less than what is legally established. There will be restrictions with regard to the budgets, but we believe that there will be fewer restrictions in this Chamber today, which will be less severe or less serious than these. The legislature itself and the legislature will be reduced to the right of making our politics, of taking part in the fines, of producing debates, of producing them in the designs of public politics. We shall be reduced to dispute, and the right of agreeing to things in democratic terms. And as long as it reduces us, or reduces us to it, this democratic right is limited to the people we represent, to the persons who have chosen us to be represented. And so the reduction and the sad morning from the perspective of the budget, and also from a democratic point of view. It will reduce the rent to guarantee incomes, even if it's a reduction disguised as a climb, it will be narrow, because the perceptions will be placed under what the law of 2008 says, and, as you want to call it, but that's a reduction. And if there's more people here to support incomes, if more people get that preparation because this isn't a help here, because this isn't charity, because RGI isn't here an alms, but an act of right. Here, EAE, we decided that in 2008 it's a right not to be poor, and that we'd vouch for it just like that. And that's what you're going to leave to-day because you're going to penetrate into the restrictions again. That's from the government. The EH Collect has kept his position open during the entire budget procedure. We've tried to improve things honestly, to change them; we've tried to make our contribution, and we've shown the presumption of harmony. And we believe, though we have not all, that so many achievements are capable of being placed on the table, and that they are capable of pride in the prospect of our party. We've managed to place people's needs in the centre of the entire process of budget, and to place the needs of people who have the greatest need of them in the centre of politics. And that's an example of the discussion we're having today. We've also managed to have a lot of improvements in the area of the RGI, even if they're partial and they don't reach the proper levels. We'll be facing the climbs that go further than the starting point. Last year, the government, when she was thinking about pecling budgets with PP, proposed an increase of 1,5. This year, from the beginning, 2,25. They bring us three, five today, and four, five for pensioners. And this is certainly a remarkable consequence of the political influence of the EH Collectors. We have also managed to place ourselves in the middle of the pensioner's affair and to place the necessity of pensioners in the middle. And, in the end, since truth finds its place, Mrs. Susana Corcuera has admitted to-day the reasons for her not having an arrangement. And he has not, I think, guessed at his examination, when he said that we wanted to form a parallel system of lodgings, but that he had left aside the lack of maturity, or the want of diversions, or that we had false pretensions to agree, or that we had decided beforehand that we had decided not. No, no, he said there had been differences, because there were differences in the political elements. But yet we have achieved a small achievement, and it is the position of pensioners to have a special treatment. And we wanted to get more things because these achievements, however decent they are, and we wanted more achievements, so it wasn't possible for us to make a deal because the government wasn't ready for that. And even in that second tour of the budget, we managed to change the government's plan at first. They planned us about seven times, all at once, and we said no because it was unacceptable in form, and at least they moved on that side. And if we were going to move more, because the government didn't need protection to get ahead of these adaptations. And we said, "If you want our protection, move along, make some offer, come over to us and try to make a deal." Unfortunately, when the ball was on the government roof, something happened. When the Government was sweating ink, without support to carry out its budgetary measures, burdened by time and in a situation that forced them to move, for they appeared to them the Virgin. The Virgin appeared to them by the hand of a rather secular party, by the way, but of a party, which no longer on sale, but free et amor I am not going to dwell too much on the criticism of this attitude, although I had it here, because I think that the left is wasting too much time in sterile debates between us and between us, and I think it is better to look for, despite the tactical differences, meeting points. But I'm just gonna say one thing. Sometimes, if you do one thing and then the opposite, the normal thing, even if it's just for statistics, one of the two times is to be right. In the case of Elkarrekin Podemos, I think he's failed both times. And I think it's failed, because, besides what, it's important when. And Elkarrekin Podemos has been inflexible when it had to have been flexible, and it has been too flexible when it had to be firm. And the problem is not just punctual, or the problem is not just for Euskal Herria Bildu. The problem is that, in this way, a unilateral way of doing this Government's policy has been nurtured, that it trusts that someone will always go there, that they have a need and that they will be able to solve the problem. And instead of putting on the table social commitments to raise support, he is waiting for someone, always in a weak position, to come through and do the government a favor. We will not protect these laws. We won't protect them because we're not in the heart and form with what we've agreed to and what he proposes to us. In the meantime, I shall resume my old line of incomes to ensure the characteristicization of incomes, though unfortunately these matters are not too interesting to the President and to the departments of the field, as we see, but to Mr. Urkullu, and here I have pointed out the papers, Mr. Urkullu, but as Mr. Urkullu has gone, I will ask him the rhetorical questions: Mr. Urkullu, what is wrong with you and the poorest people? Why do you go to school with the poorest people? Why "inoizko aurrekontu spantsiboena daukagunean", people most in need have to continue to take on cuts in public policies? How do they match records and clippings? Record collection and clippings? Why, when in other areas of public intervention, of the public administration, the cuts corresponding to the years of genuine scarcity in tax collection have actually been exceeded, why are cuts kept to those most in need? Why is he alerted to the dangers of xenophobic populisms and then opens the door to the settlement of the RGI with those who are agitating, precisely, xenophobic populism, with those who brought to Euskal Herria the debate about the RGI in terms of wanting to build on it an ultra-right alternative? How can it be said that they are open to negotiation on GIR with the People's Party or with Euskal Herria Bildu, when we make absolutely antagonistic and incompatible offers? What's your model? Where do you want to go? Its problem is that the GIR has been left without substance, because GIR means income guarantee income, and, in order for income to be guaranteed, it has to be referred to some kind of indicator that effectively guarantees and determines that the recipient of these income is outside the poverty line. By withdrawing this indexation, you are submitting to the GIR, year after year, a kind of public auction, which benefits absolutely nothing either the formula or the model or the people who perceive it, because it puts them, year after year, in the eye of the hurricane, and gives rise to the possibility of questioning the model over and over again. The model that, without doubt and with all defects, is a model to be proud of, but the original model, not the model that you have cut, cuts that you refuse to cure, because the model said that in this Basque society, the sick and the sick have the right to cure them or to try to cure them and to be treated in public health, that people have the right to education, and that people also have the right not to be poor, and that is a step forward. You have the right not to be poor, because this society, which is rich and which I believe is mature in moral terms too, has decided that it wants to move forward without leaving anyone behind, and therefore constitutes an income guarantee income, which you have left today in the field of auction and political negotiation, when it must return to the realm of solid and immobile guarantees. That is the offer that Euskal Herria Bildu continues to maintain, because Euskal Herria Bildu, Mrs. Corcuera, has not asked the Government for time; Euskal Herria Bildu has not asked the Government for time. Euskal Herria Bildu has already told the Government how it can move towards an agreement that will resolve this whole issue once and for all. Euskal Herria Bildu has already made his offer. What we are waiting for is for the government to move, because you believe, over and over again, that the pact is to go where you are, that the pact is to give you assent to the proposals you have made. That is not to agree with Euskal Herria Bildu, and that is the reason for the decision that Euskal Herria Bildu is going to make also in reference to the issues we are dealing with here today. Gobernua gutxiengoan dago eta guztiok badakigu, Eta sureu nago lehendakari jauna horren osso kontzientea dago, egunerokotasunean horrekin top Egyptian duelako behin eta berriro. But we don't want to gloat at that weakness. On the contrary, we are providing a formula that would be suitable for the Government, but above all for the country as a whole, which is to open up ourselves, being the first force of the opposition, to agreements; but those agreements must undoubtedly be based on content and, for that, a process of dialogue and negotiation must take place. It is not the first time that the system of a single-reading system is used; but when it was used last time, the work was done, and it is true that this method of accelerated time has been used, but when political agreement was already established. You brought us this plate without cooking, and you want to make us eat raw, and that's what we said we didn't. Mr. Below you, and I have already said that truth always finds its way at last, I have said very clearly: We called the teams to tell them about what we were gonna do. Well, we consider ourselves informed, but in order to obtain our consent, beyond information, we demand to open political dialogue and the means of political agreement. You and your Government, Mr Urkullu, can continue to tumble, as has been shown in this debate, I would almost say a bit rock-rock, on budgets, although there are debates on even more rock-rock budgets. But this, I believe, has been a failure of your Government; you can become aware of your minority and seek agreements, or you can continue to sit waiting for others to sue you, this second option will never be given, never in the case of Euskal Herria Bildu. The Councillor, in the last sentence of his speech, which I think he will think is already the last time he refers to the 2019 budgets, which we have already talked about enough, will feel some relief. Do not relax too much, which will have to be done in July 2020. But in his last sentence he has pronounced the word humility If, instead of leaving humility for the end, they would have put it at first, perhaps we would have been in other circumstances, perhaps we would have had an agreement. You understand that Euskal Herria Bildu, from the opposition and from the leadership of the opposition, could be tempted by the burning land strategy, the strategy of denying bread and salt to the government. And besides, outside of histrionic poses, ideologically there is a differentiated space that would give rise to confrontation. But we are not going to go to that burning land policy, we are always going to keep the doors open; but, logically, for that there must be reciprocity. Euskal Herria Bildu desperately does not need public office or to sneak into the photo next to the PNV to appear a certain centrality or desperately look for a press headline after months of informative ostracism. But Euskal Herria Bildu is willing to dialogue and reach agreements on the basis of content. Unfortunately, here, in this procedure and in these three laws what you have offered us is to hear, see, silence and vote, and we are not going to do that; in fact, we are not going to vote, we are going to refuse to participate in this vote as a sign of revulsion to a procedure that has violated the democratic right of this House to take...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u11	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u12	... part in the decision-making process. Press a button at the culmination of a process of democratic political dialogue. And it deprives itself of...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u13	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u14	...the political groups to be able to participate in this process, do not come to us now to ask us to act as palm trees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u15	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. We're gonna go through the answer shift. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u16	Yes, thank you, President. Let us see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you rejected the budgets with one argument: the self-government agreements between the Basque Nationalist Party and Euskal Herria Bildu, which had nothing to do with public accounts. We know today, moreover, that they renounce any measure that implies more solidarity and more social cohesion, that they renounce the model of protection that they claim to defend on other occasions. Today, everyone knows in Euskadi – the Basques and the Basques already know – that we cannot count on the People's Party when things go wrong. And, above all, when they go wrong and when the Government has the financial means to cover their problems. The Basque People's Party thus joins the People's Party of the rest of Spain in its decision to withdraw definitively from solidarity policy, and adopts a strategy, which is to sow discord and continue stigmatizing the most vulnerable sectors. I was asking Mr Damborenea why there are more people here who come to the benefits. Mr Damborenea, by book, because we have, since 2008, Law 18/2008, of 23 December, for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion, which is a law that came out with the majority agreement of this House, and which also promotes effective guarantees for the most vulnerable groups; hence it comes, because it guarantees, through the pact, to the most difficult groups that have it, the integration into this society, in what is the daily life of this society; for here it has it, the law, nothing more and nothing less. You say: man, all the problem we have is due to the government. No, no; it is also due to the fact that you did not support and approve the budgets for 2019, where there were a lot of measures to implement in that private sector, which is also the engine of the economy in Euskadi, but you refused that negotiation. Regarding Euskal Herria Bildu, who seems that in democracy this "I don't play when I don't like it", I go and throw the ball and also throw it to the farthest roof in the world. What do you mean they don't participate in the vote? But what right has been violated here? If we are following the rules that we have given ourselves as Parliament itself! We are following the Rules of Procedure, and therefore there is no vulnerability of any right. You have had the right to protest and continue to have the right in reply to protest and to express your position. I just didn't understand that I don't play when I don't like what's cooking here. He said that, in the debate on all budgets, I said that the PP rejected the accounts for a duel between Montescos and Capulets, stories of jealousy and unrequited love that they had...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u17	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u18	... with the Basque Nationalist Party. And it seems that this virus, on this Valentine's Day, seems to have spread, and infected Euskal Herria Bildu. Because they had in their hands agreed with the Basque Government, in its last offer, a total of 142 million euros for two years. And with that refusal, plus that of this agreement that you are not going to endorse today, because you are not even going to participate in the vote, because it gives me the impression that you are aiming for that club of the "worst, better". And you can say no, that you try, that you already want... But look, no. The worse, the better for you. You said no to more and better jobs and more social protection aid, when you tried to negotiate with the Basque Government, budget negotiation for 2019. Your political priority, Mr Casanova, and Mr and Mrs de Bildu, your political priority, is more in giving visibility to the minority of the Government than in agreeing on real and feasible solutions to the needs of Basque society. And we just found out. And with regard to Podemos's position, the Socialist Group finds it difficult to understand that this exercise they are going to do today, so they would not have done it two months ago, would they? I hope that the principle of reality will shut down and settle in your parliamentary group, because you will discover that more is done for people by taking steps, even if it goes slower than you – and we too – would like, than by pretending to jump to reach the heavens, which sometimes make you fall by the wayside in every attempt you pursue, without achieving improvements in the life of the citizenry and without, in the end, making progress in the status quo. And I conclude: the three bills amending the budget extension that we are discussing are not a government funambulism exercise, nor a game of trilers. It is an exercise for parliamentary groups and political parties, which requires high-mindedness and political intelligence to carry out measures that have a direct impact on the well-being of thousands of people, and which also have a positive impact on our economy. And the Socialists keep to our maximum of wanting to be a useful left and of using our seats for the improvement and advancement of public policies in Euskadi, and not to leave their fate to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u20	Mr. Damborenea, you... –ah, you've changed your place. You say you haven't criticized the formula. Look, in the past full of control, by presenting it in three bills, you accused the government of ruling in pieces, of ruling in cachos... And today you've done it again. When the first was a bill, EH Bildu accused the government of cheating and being trilateral. If it had been the other way around, it would have been exactly the same. They would have criticized him, both of them, and said that the Basque Government is cheating to get away with it. Exactly the same. You said that why the GIR goes up and that you had not given it, therefore, because the Government has done what it has done is to listen to the opposition in various proposals, as you have heard, as is now being proposed in the bill: to remove or repeal the sixth additional provision of the current law, because you also reached that agreement, which would eliminate that throughout the legislature. Because there is more economic capacity, because it is no longer indexed with the interprofessional minimum wage, and therefore there is no such risk that the labour force may be discouraged. There are many reasons that have been explained to you over and over again. Mr. Casanova, in this parliament, is much paralysed, and the philosophers, writers, and... I like to bring back what you call the members of the community, because in some way we guarantee this dialectic, although it is in different disputes. And you, in the last plune of control, said in the interpelation made to the president: "Este es grand pais... "Esue es uno de los país más disarallados del mundo." This is one of the most developed countries in the world, and that is what social indicators say and that is what economic indicators say. There is a lot, that you know perfectly, and there are problems, and problems have to be given solutions. But to give a solution is not to say that income guarantee income, as it is not all I ask, will be nothing. That's not the solution. The solution of the agreements and political agreements go in the middle of the way so that they can continue to move forward, because that is an obstructive attitude. And you say, "This society is a society that has humanistic or progressive values, and that wants to keep moving forward." I firmly believe that people have a character, and I believe that this people has a character of their own, that they distinguish it, that they differentiate it, that they have their own identity and that they have values, but they will recognize that something will have to do with this transmission of values with institutional leadership that can have those values, because, if not, you will tell me why in other very close societies the same values do not exist, why the level of demand that Basque society has in the field of sustainable human development does not exist in other societies. You will recognize that something is being done well, so that, as you say, this is one of the most advanced and developed countries in the world and that it has those values something will have been done well. You were saying it's undemocratic. See, Casanova, bathe zelan esan ahal duzu hori. In 99, Mr. Larreina, an EA parliamentarian, said that the Government had used an agile and effective tool to solve the problems of citizenship. How can you tell me that it is now to steal the democratic debate, when it was then agile and effective? But now he says, "Then he cooked himself." Sukaldea egin zen orduan. Zuek, behin eta berriro, hemen kritikatu izan dituzue, eta askotan EH Bilduk: "The agreements that the PNV carries in dark rooms without windows". To the "previous sukalde", you called it dark chords in places without windows, and now it's "sukalde-lana". Well, let's modulate the speech, ba klaro, sukalde-lana. Negozio-prozesua egin zen lege-proiektua hor egon zenean, eta behin eta berriro. Eta, Azpiazu saltburua buru izanda, bere taldeak ahalegin guztiak egin ditu adostasunak lortzeko; bath, hour passatuta, honor etorri da eztabaida. Hona etorri da eztabaida! Eta guztiok ikusiko dugu zer argazki ateratzen den, éta euskal gizarteak ere ikusiko du. Baina gainditu, behingo batez, antzinako politicako ereduak eta symptomak: "the no for the no" is something that is absolutely rejected by Basque society. We are absolutely convinced that many of you are betting on the effective path and positive construction, but change the logic of EH Bildu from that Monday table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Second answer turn. Mr. Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u22	Mrs. Corcuera, to remind you: the law we have agreed with you, the RGI, and we have approved it with you... But I will remind you of another fact, because you were in the government and created Lanbide. They created Lanbide badly, and this House had to pass a bill, from our group, to change Lanbide's legal nature, which you had turned into a little boy. And the problem is not so much the law as the malfunction of Lanbide in the control of aid and, above all, when it comes to facilitating employment, which is what it is for: it is the employment office of the Basque Government. That's the problem... And it's management, it started with you. And, by the way, with our vote against. And, well, the Basque Nationalist Party... Let's see, I, the truth is you guys have done a business, with Sanchez, mind-blowing. To the Basques, the business that the Basque Nationalist Party has done, putting Sánchez in the government, has been fantastic: less investment, destruction of private employment, the economy goes as well That is, we collect much more: we beat the record of collection with less taxpayers, with less taxpayers, which means that current taxpayers pay much more taxes than before. But that happens here, in this autonomous community. Hey, you guys talk so much about stability... The Government has listened to the opposition and brought this bill. I mean, what opposition have you heard? Not us. We told them: listen, we didn't approve of that from RGI. Did you hear us? No, no, Or is it? I don't know... Because then I hear you and you say: the government's proposal is the intermediary between what the opposition proposes. But does this government not have its own criteria? Or, what's going on? Is the government's proposal the intermediary of what the People's Party is proposing and what Bildu is proposing? But, if it is that even the model is antagonistic, if it is not a question of numbers, and you know that you have paralysed the reform project. It's about numbers and concept. It says: the government has brought an intermediate proposal... The Government is an ethereal entity, which does not have its own proposal. I thought that the Government's own proposal was the one that brought in the Budget Act, which was 2.25. And you still don't explain to me why urgently, in a month, you have to go up to 3.50. And tell me about the additional provision. Listen, but if we agreed that it had to be repealed and they brought the draft budget bill and it still appeared there, if it was one of the causes of our entire amendment, one of them, of the many we put in, which was also in Education. Sure, let's see if we can focus a little bit. Now, you are getting to curl the curl, and the Sanchez effect, for the sake of the consensus that this government is seeking, this government cuts laws and cuts to the vote. You will get something new: that there are votes in favour, votes against, abstentions and no votes. Of course, this is a consensus sought by the Government, with such dialogue with the opposition and listening to the opposition, that we must congratulate them, because, in the end, they not only manage to cut the bills, but they cut the House absolutely; that is, without obtaining any vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Collect EH, Mr. Casanova? Oh, aren't you going to say a word? Well, then I'll ring the bell. [[Berber]] It's over and we'll vote for the bill, so you can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 57; supporters of the east, 37; rivals, 9; white, 0; abstain, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u24	So the bill of law has been accepted to ensure the incomes of incomes on the income of 2019's urgent budget measures. Now, the vote. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u25	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chief departments, Mr. President, good morning. Well, at last we're in this discussion that has brought so many and so many news. We've had a... We all have told how we all believe the process has gone, but we also want to tell this: The government brought with it a law, which was the only law, in order to give a picture of uneasiness, and to give an impression on the citizens, or about them; Inducing his trial, that is to say, to have his trial very difficult, an image of the opposition in which the opposition leaves the people of Eukadical faction against an Eucalist Party, always fighting against the opposition, because you alone are not seen, and we don't expect them to be seen. But they didn't do well... Evidently, this strategy went wrong, and it didn't go wrong: neither did we nor could it go wrong with the citizenry. They had to break the proposal of law into three pieces, that of 'everything in one' they had made, and three laws, which is true, which are still a bunch of things that we don't think are coming, or that make agreements difficult – which, too, listened to some things that we have had to listen to – which, on the other hand, seem to have no desire to achieve. But, well, we don't make double speeches either, we don't make tricks or scams; we put people's needs at the centre and, therefore, our vote on the proposal has been that of abstention. Ez ditugu diskurtso bikoitzak egingo, ez ditugu trikimailuak egingo; guk jendearen nahiak erdian jartzen ditugu eta, horregatik, gure botoa abstinzioa izan da ora, éta abstinzioa izango da, baita ere, urrengo puntuan. One abstention because we know that the rise of the law of the GIR, the increase of 3.5% to the GIR, in more than 40,000 people is the minimum. We also do so because the increase of 4.5% to the 10,000 pensioners is also necessary. And you don't have to play with that, like you've been doing for a month since the government. It's not ethical! Do we like this bill? No, we don't like it; neither this nor any of the other two that we're going to discuss today. We don't like it because we think we want to be cat for hare, because it's empty, empty, its proposal for rights, and they expect no one to notice. But people aren't stupid. In 2017, they decided that, instead of complying with the law, they were going to delete the reference to the minimum wage, a reference that no one had ever questioned or questioned, until, for the first time in many years, this minimum wage went up, I don't think this is a coincidence. This big cut they go through without looking at the bill we are debating today means that people charge 28% less than they should. Single persons, pensioners, couples or families with 28% less than they are entitled to receive from the law, an amount which, on the purchasing power of the persons receiving it, is, more or less, about 290 euros. Murrizketa honek, lege-proiektu honetan sartzen ez denak, supposing jendeak %28 bat gutxiago kobratzea. Bakarrik bizi diren personsonak, pentsiodunak, bikoteak edo familiak % 28 gutxiago batekin, legeak onartzen diena bath % 28 gutxiago batekin. Eta hau gutxi gorabehera da, jasotzaile bakoitzeko, 290 euro. And that's a loss of purchasing power, which has been weighing many years on who has less in Euskadi, which makes those in poverty never get out of it. And this is not charity; don't forget it. If we have tools to fight poverty, they must really fight against a problem that is society-wide. Because this isn't going to be more or less good, or take better or worse pictures, but comply with the law. And you, one more year, are not complying with the law. That is why our abstention is very critical. We are clear, and we do not want or need to be dizzy, because what guides us is to help the people who make Euskadi come forward, without taking any step back on the rights conquered. That is why we also propose that they approve the bill we registered on 2 January to correct the budget extension on GIR, to completely eliminate these unfair cuts and go to the bottom of the issue. Demonstrate the day you vote, if so real is the will to grow this right and to worry about citizenship; demonstrate that will by voting yes to our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u26	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Second point on the subject list: "The bill of law, in the pay department, about the speed prices of 2019 and other parts of the extension. Discipline and final resolution. Does anyone want to join us on the side shift? On the counter shift, is anyone willing to participate? Then we'll go to the vote. We'll wait... [[Berber]] Well, since there hasn't been a discussion, we'll vote for the bill. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 56; supporters, 46; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u27	So the law has been approved of in the department of wages for 2019's urgent budgets and other parts of the extension. Next, we'll have the vote. Euskal Talde Popularra, Damborenea jauna, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u28	To the mouth, sí... Well, of course, it responds to Mariano Rajoy's government's agreement with the unions. We are therefore in favour, as we did and voted for in the Congress of Deputies 10 days ago.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u29	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u30	Yes, thank you, President. The Basque Socialists intervene in this matter, in the explanations of vote, because the political reasons and contents of the three bills are the same debate, in short: it is what to do so that a situation of budgetary extension does not harm thousands of Basques and Basques, when we have greater resources thanks to a successful and progressive tax reform. And, as we have already had the opportunity to discuss in the previous point the reasons for the context in which these laws are adopted, on this occasion we will explain the vote on this bill on remuneration. And the Basque Socialists have voted in favour, because we share, as stated in the explanatory statement of this bill, that it is desirable and appropriate to establish a series of measures aimed at solving some problems caused by the extension and whose solution, in addition to being urgent, is that it is inescapable, requiring a rule of legal rank for its implementation and referring, in particular, to the increase in the salaries of staff serving the public sector, in addition to the updating of the liabilities and the fixing of the budget allocation for the Basque Parliament, is used in this bill also to update the amount of fees for 2019. We have voted in favour because the civil servants' pay system, in general, must be subject to the basic regulations contained in the Basic Staff Regulations Act. And last December 21st, sir... "I can't go in there, I'm sorry," and on December 21st, by royal decree, urgent measures were adopted in the area of public sector remuneration for public employees. This Parliament agreed, in May last year, to take initiatives that would allow for a widespread rise in wages in Euskadi, in line with the figures reflecting an economic improvement, and we Socialists said then – and we continue to say now – that we are betting that in the private sector too, in the area of collective bargaining, there will be wage improvements. It is the collective bargaining between the employer and the representation of workers that is necessary to establish changes in working conditions, including wage conditions. At the same time, we point out, therefore, the need, before the public responsibility, of the administrations to promote, in their own area of negotiation, this scenario of improving, in this case, the remunerations in the terms that allow the basic state regulations. On the occasion of the debate on the whole of the Basque budget, it was pointed out that, in view of the new economic scenario with regard to the measures to be taken by the Basque Government, three lines of action were laid down to strengthen the Basque economy, and one of them was to continue with the recovery of wage growth, which are also an essential part of the quality of public services and, also, because this means encouraging the possibilities of spending of public employees. We are in favour of this 2.25 % increase in salaries since January this year and in liabilities, which also leads to the need for a loan of 199 million, almost 200 million euros, to improve the salaries of the staff of the General Administration of Euskadi, the autonomous bodies, the Haurreskolak, Osakidetza, the entities, and the public societies and the foundations of Euskadi. This increase in wages improves life; it represents an improvement for more than 90,000 people, without distinction of ideologies, identities or feelings, which, after all, is an objective for which we Basque socialists participate in the Government. That is why we are in the Government, to be useful in improving the quality of life of Basque citizens. And we also support the increase in the budget contribution of the Basque Parliament by 850.000 euros more than in 2018, to also affect this pay increase. We have supported the updating of the rates of the General Finance of the Basque Country, when they are carried out in accordance with the agreement adopted in the Euskadi Tax Coordination Authority, which will entail higher revenues, of 300,000 euros. Hence our support for this bill, because we did not want to remain in shape, but rather to go into solving the problems caused by the budget extension with the salaries of 90,000 people, to whom we increased their economic capacity, which will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the Basque economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Hernandez, together Podemos. A vote description.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u32	Good morning, everybody. The core of this proposal, of this bill, is the wage rise of public workers. A rise, which is true, is nothing more than the execution in Euskadi of the minimum agreements won by the representatives of the workers to the Government of the State. And that, therefore, is the minimum wage rise acceptable to a coalition like ours. And the Basque Government knew perfectly well that our group was not going to stick to the salary increase of the public employees, and yet – or rather, perhaps precisely so – the Basque Government decided to use the public workers as real hostages in a clear and perverse strategy: to put in the same bill, the original, the pack, different issues, to force us to choose between things we did not agree with or reject a whole pack and to make us responsible for not raising the salaries of the public workers. An absolutely unacceptable strategy, in our view; that is why we are registering a bill exclusively to affect the wage increases of employees and public employees, as opposed to what the Government was doing. That is true, we did not include in that rise either the members of the Government or the high offices; on the contrary, we proposed, once again, to lower their wages, because we think that, in a situation where economic recovery is not being transferred to the working class, we do not think it is opportune to raise the salaries to the high offices, nor did we think it was opportune to raise the salaries to the parliamentarians, which I believe is important to clarify, because there has been a small campaign of lies against our coalition. We... With our vote, the budgets of this House were not approved; we tabled an amendment so that there would be no increase in salaries for Members of Parliament, and it was rejected. But we are concerned about the salaries of public employees and employees. Finally, the Government decided to withdraw the unacceptable package in view of the prospect of not taking it forward, and in view of the prospect of public workers holding it responsible for the non-ascent to the Government itself. He did not withdraw it to negotiate, and today it is clear to me, Mr Azpiazu, that the Government was not prepared to negotiate these issues. That is why we do not want to deceive anyone; the Government has not wanted to negotiate them. Either approved or rejected. Therefore, in view of this proposal for a specific law for the raising of the wages of public employees, the purpose of the vote of our group has been to abstain, to allow the wage rise of public workers and to prevent the freezing of their wages, once that perverse pack has been withdrawn. And why a abstention, not a vote in favour? For two fundamental reasons: I have already commented on the first one, because we do not agree with the rise in the salary of senior officials and government, at a time when we also think that the Government is not wanting to achieve the end of historical cuts that have been approved in the last period of crisis. And, secondly, also, because we see that the Government is not willing to make the slightest effort to meet trade union demands, which are asking it, from Euskadi, to address the important loss of purchasing power of the civil servant over the past decade. Loss of purchasing power that is not compensated by this salary increase and that needs – the unions are asking – a debt recognition, which the government is not willing to do with public employees. But why a abstention, not a vote against? Because, as I said, today we vote to raise or not raise the wages of women and men who make the public services of our country work. And before that, the Elkarrekin coalition We can make it clear: on what depends on us, improve the living conditions of the workers. That is why we have abstained, aware that it is not enough, but aware of the need for public workers to take on this rise right now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u34	Our legislative party has now voted for this second legal proposition. In the former we have sought to strengthen the most important point in human development and in society, and in persons, who have the principal wants. This is what is obtained by the first proposition of law, which has been obtained: the majority of difficulties which have the power to advance further. In the second place, we have voted in favor of the fact that when there have been severe moments, and when they have lived at the economic point of view and at the time of the crisis, we have lived in Eucharin, because they had been in the sphere of public office, among the rest of the most injured. And then it was said that what was due to them would be paid, and so it was done, and when there was occasion, money or wages would advance. We vote for you, Mr. Subauzu, because you've been very consistent, and you've been in charge since you arrived. From the first moment I've brought in some of those who appeared in the press, and you've always proclaimed that climbs and promotions in the private field are absolutely necessary to improve the quality of life, the workers, and to re-establish the Eucharistic economy. "Go on, defende sus casseuris para evitar que la ennomía ese pas." That's what I said at the beginning of 2017. "In 2018," "Subuzu reclama una subida de shandaris en Euskadi, para muntizar el crecimimaentto." Gobierno y Patronal acercan situations para que la subidarial no se limite a la industry." You've been very funny when you show up the plan of fun, with this attitude, and that's why we clap and protect this initiative. We support that you have sought an agreement, as it has been seen, and even in public, because you have done so. And because you push stability and stability. We said before: We believe that we must endeavour not to Spanishise eroscal politics: This policy of "el no por el no no", as Esteban said yesterday in Madrid, the society of Basques won't tolerate it either. And, finally, I'll take part in this shift, but not in the next legal proposition, and as long as I'm a spokesman of our legal funds and budgets, I'd like to thank you for all the work we've done during this talks process of budgets. Because you've been disrespectful all the time, it'll be political criticisms that you've been through, but in the facts, because it's a process of respect, because you've done the job with severity, knowing that you've done it when you explained the boundaries of the Sorant and the opposition teams, as far as the law is concerned, as economic capacity, and that you've done it with humility. Because you've done it humbly, even though some of it has done other criticisms. Hence, in that circle of noise, in the name of our legislative party, thanks for the work we have done, and congratulations for the work that may be made forward, and this society for the driving forward. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Third point in theme list: "The bill of law, about the budget prices of the 2019 fast for the educational event. Discipline and final resolution. Is someone here, too, on the side shift? On the side shift, part... ? Nobody. In the opposite round, is anyone willing to join us? Against? In favor? In favor? Bai. Bale.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u36	We are going to intervene at this turn, although I will explain later the vote we are going to cast. I'm going to read some articles, starting with one of the Constitution, the 27, which says: "Everyone has the right to education. Freedom of education is recognized." Three: "Public authorities guarantee the right of parents to receive religious and moral training according to their own convictions." Four: "Basic education is compulsory and free". Article 26 of the Declaration of Human Rights, which has so much been quoted recently in this House, says the same thing: "education must be free, at least with regard to elementary and fundamental education", and that "parents shall have the preferential right to choose the type of education to be given to their children". We can read the 1952 Paris Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which says exactly the same thing, and that "the right of parents to ensure this education and teaching in accordance with their religious and philosophical convictions will be respected". Either the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, article 13, the European Social Charter or the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Well, in this country of ours, where we have a model of education, I think that right – everything is better, but it is right – there are two variables within that model: the public and the concerted. And, in the case of the concerted – and see that during the previous two years in the pacts we have made with this Government we have tabled amendments to improve the concerted education and the financing of concerted education, which this Government has also forgotten when it brought the budgets to us in December 2019, which was another reason for our amendment to the whole, Mrs Gorospe – it has not only a problem of under-staffing by the Government, but that this Government acts as if it were an arbitrator, when it is not an arbitrator, it is the public authority that must guarantee the free and compulsory education in the Basque Country, because it is our exclusive competence. And this isn't happening... Some other group, the other day, said it has to be free; yes, of course, it has to be free, but it isn't. And why isn't it? Because the Basque government has it under-funded. And I, look... Don't listen to me very much; but, for example, the Ikastolas, of which you are fervent defenders, can tell you that parents have to pay 21% of the funding, when in Europe that doesn't reach 6 or 5. But this is the 21st, when it had to be free, but it's the 21st. That's happening here today. And why is this happening here? 'Cause it wasn't like that before... Why is it happening? Because, since 2009, the Basque Government has frozen the fixed cost-maintenance modules of the concerted centres: since 2009, not one euro, not inflation, zero. Then we hear speeches here from some groups, saying that it is that, in the concerted centres, immigrants; not a euro to care for immigrants in the concerted centres for 10 years. 10 years... Not one. However, 40 million euros in the budget that was coming this year for the public, from 0 to 3 years, just for that reason, while the agreed money was taken away, the departure was diminished. And that's what's going on here, and when the counselor called us for these urgent measures that were coming, we told him two things, in addition to the RGI; we told him: listen, why do you climb the RGI to 3.5, when your proposal was 2.25? Listen, and why are the modules of concerted education still frozen, because we think it's very good that you bring in now that you can raise the salary of the teachers of the concerted, but this does not fix anything. It does not fix anything; this is not the problem, and the counselor knows it perfectly well, because the teachers of the concerted, except those of the ikastolas, who did reach an agreement with LAB, and last year they had the rise of 1.7, but the rest did not, because ELA does not sign the agreement, and as this same law says that this is the maximum that can be paid, according to the collective agreement, while ELA does not want, here no one charges anything. And this comes in the law; it is put in the hands of the government of a union – yes, yes... – so that it is he who decides when and how to get up, and in the meantime... But this is about the salaries of the officials, so I'm telling you this doesn't fix anything. But, second, what does not work out at all is the problem of full funding for concerted education, and we yesterday asked for a gesture, because, since in the bill nothing has been reflected in what we are proposing, at least a gesture of commitment from the Government, and the gesture made to us by the adviser today has been so lukewarm that we are going to abstain. Because, of course, that is to say, does this Government undertake to modify and raise the fixed expenditure modules of the agreement? If they tell us that yes, we will vote that yes, we will change the vote; but if they tell us that we will continue working, listen, no, do not continue working, as they have worked so far; do not follow, so do not follow, because we are as we are. And I repeat that it is a fundamental and free right; it must be free, and that must be guaranteed by the Basque Government, which is the competent administration in this community. And we're talking about half the students in this community, and the parents who take those students pay taxes, and, as they pay taxes, they have the right to have free education, which is not happening. And this is the third measure that the Government brings, but what measure it also brings of salaries, of salaries that depend on the public administration, of salaries that depend on this Government, but it does not bring us any measures to solve the budget under-staffing that the concerted education has. And here, and this is a fundamental right that comes in all the international covenants and comes as I have read it, and what we demand of this Government is that it stop working so much on things that do not get anywhere and, instead of working so much, go up the modules. Counselor, you'll see that it's quickly arranged. Yes, yes, you upload the operating modules, and you'll see how fast you can fix it. Of course, give the same means to the concertee as to the public. Why does the public increase by 40 million this year? It is half of the student in the 0-3 year education, half of the student. And what about the concert? Zero. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is what we have here today; that is why it was better to extend the previous law, which did not take away, which was this year's proposal, from the Government. And that is why, I repeat, we are going to abstain, because we understand that the Councillor has done well to make a gesture, but we consider it insufficient, so that we believe that, indeed, they are for the work of modifying the modules, which is their responsibility as rulers. And we are talking about a fundamental right of 50% of students in this country, especially in children and primary schools.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u37	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In the opposite round, would anyone like to participate? No. [[Berber]] Well, since the discussion is over, we'll vote for the bill. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 57; supporters of the east, 37; rivals 11. Whites, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u38	So it's been approved of the law on the budget measures of 2019 in the field of education. Next, we'll go to the vote. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u39	Yes, thank you, President. For the Socialist Group's favourable vote on the draft law on urgent budgetary measures for the 2019 financial year in the field of education follows the same general criterion followed in the points discussed above, and that it is nothing more or less than to attempt that the budget extension would entail the least possible damage to Basque citizenship...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u40	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u41	And to do so because we have more economic resources, thanks, as I said before, to the tax reform, which some have denounced, but which has proved to be effective, fairer and more progressive. In addition, in this case, the Basque socialists...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u42	Please be quiet. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u43	If you don't give me the voice, that... Thank you, President. In addition, in this case, the Basque Socialists have supported a bill that sets the budget allocation for the University of the Basque Country and, in particular, an additional allocation of more than 10 million euros and that also updates the components of the concert modules, for an amount of 19 million euros, almost 20 euros. We believe that the Basque public university is a sensitive subject, and that is why we must collaborate in its capacity to adapt to the new challenges, to deepen academic and research policies, to improve its infrastructure and to be up to the standards of other university offerings that are presented in the environment, something that we have been constantly demanding from the authorities of the University of the Basque Country itself to the teachers and students. The Socialists have voted in favour of updating the personnel components of the modules of the concerted educational institutions, which was already foreseen in the draft budgets for 2019, because, in this way, they are increased by the same percentage established for the salaries of the staff of the public educational institutions of non-university education. In other words, it increases by 2.25%, applying this update to 15,000 teachers. The Basque Socialists defend a new educational pact, which has as its axis the public school, which adapts the current law from the consensus among educational agents, because it is, indeed, the only guarantee of sustainability. It is these consensuses that also explain why we have talked about concerted education and why it is important in the Basque educational system. For a long time there have been legitimate labour demands from the teaching staff of concerted education, which must be resolved in the area of collective bargaining. The Administration has the highest demand to assert the conditions of the concerts, but never replace collective bargaining between the employer and the workers. And, I conclude: the Basque Socialists have supported this bill in the field of education, fulfilling today's responsibility to ensure the updating of the educational modules, because we thus avoid prejudice to the strict application of the current budget extension. An extension that has proved to be inconvenient for the government and for Basque citizenship in general, compared to the budgets that were brought here in December, which were budgets and public accounts better adapted to the reality of Euskadi for this year 2019. Today, with the three bills that we have adopted, some improvements are being made to the budget extension proposal. And it was said a while ago: a budget extension, indeed, is not a drama, but a budget extension is an obstacle to achieving greater social progress in the most favourable economic circumstances that we have had following the economic crisis that we have been through. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Together Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Today, we cannot set the debate on educational matters; today the debate is set at the opportunity cost of voting on this initiative. The dilemma of deciding between cannons or butter. The Basque Government has decided to use more resources in cannons to protect its model of segregating and privatizing education than in butter. In other words, he did not want to invest in resources to shield a model of public and quality education for all citizens. Undoubtedly, Elkarrekin We can strongly defend the interests of the workers of concerted education in their labor demands and in their right to strike, without this implying that we also understand the anger of the users affected by the mobilizations carried out; that is, families and students. But this problem is not what we are discussing today, although very interestedly they want to make it look like this. The current conflict must be resolved by the Patronage of Social Initiative Education, a employer who is subject to the same economic concert as Ikastolen Elkartea, which has already renewed the working conditions of its workers. It is the Basque Government, with its clear commitment to the concerted network and the employer of Kristau Eskola, who is responsible for this blocking situation and for not offering solutions to their workers or families. Today, Elkarrekin Podemos, with his vote, has bet on butter; he has bet on public education as a backbone of the Basque education system. With his vote, Elkarrekin Podemos has voted yes to an equal, equitable and quality education. Yes to an innovative public school that is adapted to the needs of the 21st century both at the methodological and organizational level. Today we have opted for a public and inclusive education, a school for all, and that not only integrates but includes. A participatory and co-created education, with the involvement of the entire educational community. Today we voted in favour of ending a two-speed education system, because we cannot allow Basque schools to reflect social inequalities. Because enjoying quality education is a right that all children must have at their disposal, regardless of their social status, economic level, age, residence or origin. Today Elkarrekin Podemos has voted in favour of a model that guarantees equal access to education. Today Elkarrekin Podemos has said yes to the right to compulsory and free education, to the right to education for all people, regardless of their economic level. Because public education must be the backbone of the Basque education system. Because public education is the only option that guarantees social cohesion, because Euskadi needs a modern country model that is up to the challenges of the 21st century, with a public, modern, democratic, feminist and inclusive education system. Today's boys and girls will thank you. But, above all, the adults of tomorrow will thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Eubertarians, Mrs. Newori, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u47	Thank you, Chief. President, chief of departments, good morning to all of you. A few days ago, I said from this point of view, that the Jestric Party has clearly to continue to improve the quality of the entire system of education, and that we must continue to carry on more and more efficiently the management of the resources which are directed to education, always in the centre of the system. I remembered that soon we'd have an important appointment. It was a good moment to show you the attitude of one or the other beyond the words. And I mentioned two things: To increase the budget of Basque State University to 10.045.915 euros, from which 6,4 million euros were transferred to the sod. And up economic modules to face the expense of the schools under the compact: 19.871.097 euros more. And the time has come, and the answer or answer of both. The JIlt Party has agreed to the bill of law that has been produced by the 2019 rush budget in the education field. Baiezko botoa eman diogu zalantzarik gabe, lotsatu gabe, inolako aitzakiarik bilatu beharrik gabe, konplexurik gabe, ezkutatu gabe, kikildu gabe, naturaltasunez beharrezkoa eta bedezkoa dellako. We have voted in favour without doubt, without shame, without complexes, naturally, without looking back at what they will say or fail to say. In short, by conviction and because it is of justice, by responsibility. We have voted yes, because we believe in the Basque education system as a whole, as an integral system that guarantees the public good of education. With the full conviction that in Euskadi we do not have subsidiary educational networks, but complementary educational networks. And the assent we have given to this day is strictly conformable to so many other assents: both to the right of education and to the confession of professional professionals in education, both to study and innovation; both to the rights of the pupils, and to the rights of families; to the position and the will necessary to arrive in agreements; to the tendency to approach the attitude of one and the other; both to the disposition of the business and to the cultivation of the other; both to the honest business and the efficiency of the public, and the efficiency of the whole system. And, after all, euscal is the future of the entire educational system. That's what the Jestric Party wanted to show today, and it's always been the EZAZU in the attitude of the EYNA EUFIL party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u48	Thank you, Mrs. News. Forth point on the theme list: "The bill of law made together by the parliamentary Podemos, changing the 10/2016 law of June on the legislation of the legislature. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." In your document you've got your criteria, so we're going to argue without reading it. On the other hand, apart from the Podemos group, is anyone else willing to join us? Does someone else want to join us on the side shift? [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u49	Mme. President, Congressmans, good morning to all of you. Let us try to draw attention to this point, which seems to us to be fundamental, after these three intense points of the morning. To change the law of the people of legislation, we dispute our proposition of the race of Podemos together, not by caprice, because we were not planned, but because reality has shown us the need of the reform of this law. When we discussed the popular legislative initiative by an inclusive school, when this collective presented the signatures, it met the requirements and, when, later on, this plenary, with the votes of three parties, rejected the initiative, this meant that the proponents, the proponents, had to pay for the cost of the popular legislative initiative, the expenses of the latter and, therefore, in our case, they also jumped alarms about some of the problems or imperfections that the current law regulating popular legislative initiatives might have. Because this law leaves in the hands of the parliamentary debate, the debate in this House, and not the legislation – of what one party or another likes, and not the legislation – what happens to the expenses, in particular, of a popular legislative initiative. And that is what we mean when we talk about arbitrariness in the decision of a plenary in order to be able to charge the costs of popular legislative initiatives of a legal nature that are respectful of human rights, which, in our opinion, are the two lines that have to mark the parliamentary processing and the compensation of the expenses of a popular legislative initiative: One, the legal nature and compliance with the procedure, and which are, of course, respectful of human rights. We think that, in that case, they have to be dealt with – another thing is then the meaning of the parliamentary debate in the process – and that they do not have to be an added cost to the citizenry. We think that the law regulating popular legislative initiatives can and should be modified, can move forward, can correct errors, imperfections, forgotten... And it was done three years ago and it got better, and we recognize it. It was also made – and I quote textually – "to make it easier for citizens and social groups to take part in the legislative function, making it easier and less restrictive for them to propose initiatives that will then be discussed in Parliament". But I say again that that change did not facilitate everything and, in some respects, in our opinion, it may have made it worse. That law of 2016 sought to make it easier and simpler – and it also lowered – the threshold of signatures necessary to process an ILP, but we think that, as far as the compensation of expenses is concerned, there is a variation, since in the law of 1986 what it said is that: "The expenses incurred by the commission promoting the dissemination of the proposal and the collection of signatures will be compensated when, meeting the requirements of this law, it has reached the publication in the Official Gazette of the Basque Parliament". In the 2016 law, what is collected is that: "The expenses incurred by the promoter commission will be compensated from the budgets of the Basque Parliament when, meeting the requirements of this law, it has been taken into consideration by the plenary of the House". And then he points out the maximum amount, which we don't discuss there if it has to be more or less, which is the 18,000 euros. En nuestra opinón, con la nuvea redacción, la compensacion por los galados a depender de la concurrencia de unos objectos hus objectitivos humpiento de la laleyo, delcedito y de la tramitciaón estarción subject a una valocio meramente y, est endo lica, arbitra. He said, "We're not going to get married." He said, "We're not going to do anything about it." That's what we call arbitration. We do not at all criticize the proceedings and voices of the legislature, but we blame the consideration of expense in a vote, and not under ordinary proceedings. That is to say, if the regulation be fulfilled, if the proceedings follow, and in this sense if they are fulfilled, the expenses must be calculated. It's another political discussion, and the divisional Party is in good sense. The opinion of all the polylytics and parlamentary groups must be given later. Everyone will know what he votes in front of a concrete LHE, what he thinks: either for the tramitation or against it. The popular legislative initiative is a tool, and this, in that sense, is also reflected in the law of 2016, and from Elkarrekin Podemos, we think it is a very valuable tool for citizens, for citizens who want to propose things to Parliament, that we have not been able, or have not been able, or that we have forgotten, or that any group has not had the idea of presenting them, to regulate new social realities that we have not addressed, as I said. Valuing proposals that have not been addressed in Parliament. Therefore, from Elkarrekin Podemos, establishing an economic barrier – in this case, compensation for expenses incurred – I say again, whose allowance does not depend on objective criteria, on purely technical and legal criteria, but on political criteria, the allowance when it does not depend on predictable criteria and with legal certainty for the drivers of legislative initiatives, but always depends on variable parliamentary majorities and their political criteria... That's the barrier we want to remove. Therefore, what we propose today, with the aim of correcting setbacks, impediments... previously mentioned in my speech, we propose to amend three specific issues of that 2016 law: The first is to declare the documents or forms to be free in accordance with established official models; the second, with regard to the requirement for compensation for expenditure incurred, to restore the original meaning of the 1986 law, on the grounds that it is the most faithful to the democratic and participatory spirit, also included in the explanatory statement of the 2016 law; that is, that at the time when the legal requirements of the People's Legislative Initiative are met, the expenditure is borne by the budget of the Basque Parliament, and, thirdly, something as concrete as defining the time frame for this reform. In the last few months we have had two cases of discussion, two members of the legislature have been in question; On the one hand, L.E. was discussed about the inclutive school, and on the other hand introduced the Basque Rights Card. In these two cases, the Propositions have paid the whole charge because this Congress voted against the tramitation. And I take the opportunity, at this time too, to put an end to two references. One, the ILP of the inclusive school, to Mr Sabin Zubiri, representative of that popular legislative initiative in this House. He ended up, at the end of his speech, telling of the experience they had as a platform, a platform also born of the debate on the need for inclusiveness in the public school, and also talking about his experience in citizen participation in this parliamentary institution. And he said, to reflect: "Although in general we encourage people to get involved in social and political issues, our experience, frankly, given the announcement, for we would say, look forward to looking around with a popular legislative initiative!". A people's legislative initiative has its risk and, in this case, private citizens who were voluntarily organized, must also be said, but who also took a risk, because this Parliament, once they have complied with their legal procedure, does not compensate for such expenses, if that law is not dealt with. Let that risk disappear and that end change, let it not be repeated, that is our desire: that popular legislative initiatives be as simple as possible – not simple – accessible and that participation should also be worth the effort, and not that it should not be worth it, not the negative consequences; that popular legislative initiatives can be debated and taken into account as an opportunity that citizens ask of us, to which we must not refuse to agree on minimums. We have to change these risks to avoid these sad endings. That's our wish: The legislators of the people, neither simple nor simple, but not simple, I repeat again, that they may be the promoters of education and participation, and not the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u50	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. In the opposite round, is anyone willing to join us? On the other side? Anything else? Basque Popular, Mr Barriio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u51	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, counselor. Well, we are faced with the initiative presented by the Podemos Group in relation to the reform of the regulation of the popular legislative initiative. And we have to say that popular legislative initiative is a very important instrument and, therefore, it must be regulated with great rigour, with guarantees and also with certainty for its purposes, which will be the acceptance, processing or rejection by this House, in relation to the competences – of course, legislative – that the Basque Parliament has. We, Mr. Martínez, tell you that - You weren't there, but... it was very constructive and interesting the processing, in the last legislature, of the proposal of law promoted by the Joint Group, by Mr Maneiro, in relation to the update of everything relating to the requirements, the conditions, the formalities... that make up the popular legislative initiative. Law 10/2016, of 30 June, facilitated citizens and social groups – you have also recalled – to take part in the legislative function, in fact by doing simpler, less restrictive ways, the possibility of proposing initiatives for their debate in the Basque Parliament, since this was simplified, improved, updated, channeled, in a more possible way. And that was something that was managed by a vast majority... Or some issues were not perfectly agreed, but we can talk about a parliamentary agreement on what was the progress in updating the People's Legislative Initiative Act. And, of course, from there, and given what we did in this parliamentary process and in this legislative environment three years ago, I have to say that my group is in line with what is currently regulated in that law, with the agreement reached in the last procedure of that last parliamentary term, and it understands that there is no need to change the conditions for the implementation of the initiative or with regard to the signature-gathering documents, which are perfectly regulated, nor with regard to the compensation of expenditure incurred and, therefore, not to the temporary question to which you referred. My group agrees with the regulation contained in Law 10/2016 and therefore understands that no change is necessary at this time. It is also logical that the people's legislative initiative, that the people's initiative, should be confirmed, should be contrasted with the legislative capacity that Parliament has exclusively. And, therefore, the consideration of the proposal for a law in the initiative contained has as obligatory procedure, in addition to its compliance with the legal requirements, its consideration by the legislative body in full, in its fundamental capacity, to take effect and to settle in the legislative procedure. That is normal, and that must be ensured, and rigour must be ensured, legal certainty must be ensured, guarantees and legal conditions must be guaranteed, and that gives it an accommodation for a procedure of these characteristics, which also has effects. Law 10/2016 was a law of progress in citizen participation and by a broad and majority and qualitative agreement, which we have referred to. The number of signatures needed was reduced; procedures, requirements, conditions...; compensation was increased; the role and presence of the proponents in the process of the initiative were expanded, in the parliamentary steps that it would take. That is to say, the issue is well, and it is well regulated, from our point of view. From our point of view, too, the proponent's approach to this initiative is risky, and these must be analysed as well. It runs risks in relation to the openness that you can try to push: that of improvisation, that of the lack of rigour, that of lightness or that of the creation of parallel structures of popular initiative without the rigour and the necessary guarantees, but that guarantee a financing. Take risks! And that, we have to analyze it like this, in a sensible way. You'll find it rigorous, but we call it sensible. In other words, the popular legislative initiative has its channels, has its procedures and has its chances of success, as it has its chances of being rejected in relation to what popular sovereignty decides, which is the fundamental procedure in the consideration. That is to say, Mr Martínez, we understand that the popular legislative initiative, as it does and as that of the Basque Government or as that of the parliamentary groups, must be based on rigour and, therefore, as important, from our point of view, procedures such as the analysis by the Bureau of the Basque Parliament, above all that has to do with the guarantees that the text or the initiative put in place for its publication has to do with it, but also takes it into account, because it is from there that the procedures that we established in Law 10/2016 are and begin to take effect as a step forward and as a guarantee. We understand that, in this regard, there is no need to amend Law 10/2016 on People's Legislative Initiative. It was a step forward, it is well regulated, and we will vote against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u52	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u53	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. Together Podemos proposes the bill of legislation to change the law of 10/2016 Laws of the People's Laws. Before this proposal, our party will vote against it, first because of consistency, seriousness, care, and respect for the work of Parliament. I'll explain: We will vote against for consistency, for personal consistency, because together with Mr Maneiro of UPyD, who was the proposer, Mr Unzalu, of the Socialist Group, Mr López de Munain, Mr EH Bildu, Mr Barrio, Mr Grupo Popular and Mrs Otadui, a servant was part of that paper, which for almost three years of the last parliamentary term we worked to seek and reach the greatest and best agreements and consensus in a law that made it easier for citizens and social groups to take part in the legislative function. And, logically, for political coherence, since the above-mentioned ones did not integrate the presentation in our personal capacity, we represented our parliamentarians, who, except UPyD, we are still present in this House. We will also vote against because of seriousness and responsibility, because we believe that the laws – Mr Barrio said – they must be changed and adapted to the evolution of society, but we do not think it is serious or responsible to propose a legal change after just over two years of its entry into force, after its adoption practically unanimously, without any new objective fact – or at least unknown at the time of its adoption – that requires it, or if there is, it tells us later, Mr Martínez. I understand that your group, Mr Martínez, was not present during the last parliamentary term and therefore did not intervene in the drafting of this law, but those of us who were should be serious and responsible with what was agreed and approved. And we will also vote against it out of respect for parliamentary work. I believe that in these times of crisis and political confrontation in other countries, it is worth highlighting and highlighting the fact that the five groups that formed this House last parliamentary term, so different and disparate, but that we represented Basque society, let us come to an understanding and an almost total agreement in the articulation of this law, and this we believe deserves respect. Although there were different approaches to many issues, with the work and effort of all, the balance and agreement between different issues was sought and unanimity was achieved in almost all of them. A broad agreement, of which his spokesman, Elkarrekin Podemos' spokesman, usually claims in the media. Eta has had to bathe ez da. Proposamenaren edukian saartuta, esan beharra dago guk aurka egiten dugula oinarri-oinariko akats handia dagoelako. Egindako zenbait azierazpen was doakoak izan dira, age horiekin era ez cataz bat. And what is your basic bottle error, Mr Martínez, which also justifies your initiative, initiative, by the way, political, no? In his explanatory statement – and today, here, from this atrium – we are told that the conditions for the compensation of expenses incurred are changed with the new law, and this, Mr Martínez, is radically false, since there has been no change in these conditions: they are exactly the same as they were applied with the previous law of 86. It also says that, with the new wording, the compensation for the expenditure incurred depends on the attendance of objective facts, to be subject to the purely political and, in this sense, arbitrary assessment of the plenary of the Basque Parliament. Eta hau was missing yes. Ez da baldintza horien inolako aldaketarik egon; Bertan behera utzitako aurrearen berberak dira. And as the Basque Government stated in its report, at least it is curious and striking that an initiative put forward by a parliamentary group regards the decisions taken by the plenary of the House to which this negative feature belongs as being subject to purely political and, in this sense, arbitrary assessment, and considers that this diminishes the democratic quality of its decisions. I would ask you a question, which you will then have the opportunity to answer in the second round: Can Elkarrekin always vote in favour of taking into consideration all popular legislative initiatives that are presented in this House? Then, in the second round, answer me, please. Speaking of democratic quality and respect for plurality, I do think it is interesting to make a brief reference – briefly, do not be frightened – to the processing of the law, since you, by deference, were not, and it can also be interesting to refresh the memory of everyone. Law 10/2016 arose as a result of a proposed UPyD law, introduced in July 2013, to reform the 1986 law; although, finally, for the sake of regulatory clarity, a new law was adopted. As far as you are concerned, Mr Martínez, the proposal for a law contained an update of the maximum amounts of compensation, up to a maximum of EUR 18,000. It also raised the possibility of an advance of no more than EUR 2,000 to cover the first costs of collecting signatures. A total of 44 amendments were tabled, of which only two were finally set aside for the final plenary session, one from the People's Party, Mr Barrio, on Article 1, and another from EH Bildu, Mr López de Munain, on Article 2, on matters excluded from ILP. With regard to the subject that you raised today, which was initially covered by article 13 of the bill, there were three amendments: one of the Basque Nationalists, one of the Basque Socialists and one of the People's Group. EH Bildu did not submit an amendment to this Article 13. And none of them, of these three amendments, raised any changes in the sense that you are interested in your proposal for a law. And at the first presentation meeting, which was discussed and discussed on 4 November 2014, with the assistance of all the rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups, the original text of the proposal was accepted by EH Bildu, Basque Socialists and UPyD, together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament in paragraph three on the advance of EUR 2,000. Finally, in the Committee on Institutions, Security and Justice of 5 June 2015, which finally became Article 14, compensation for expenditure incurred, in its three paragraphs, was unanimously approved. Following the opinion of 5 June 2015, the legal services of the Chamber drew up notes on the opinion, which, on 25 September 2015, were transferred to the groups. And after a broad period of reflection and debate, about six months, mainly with regard to Article 11, the participation of the committee in the parliamentary process, reached a broad consensus and balance in the approaches of the rapporteurs, the law being adopted, as we said, in the last plenary of the last parliamentary term, on 30 June 2016. I will also talk to you, using your terminology, about the obstacles, setbacks and impediments that led to the adoption of Law 10/2016, with respect to the legislation in force before. Considering that the numerical requirement was one – and is one – of the most important elements of the regulation of this figure, the number of signatures required was reduced from 30,000 to 10,000, thus establishing one of the lowest percentages in Spain, the 0,56 %. In the State, for example, it is 1.26. Is this an obstacle or a setback, Mr. Martinez? The number of people who could sign an ILP, not just those registered in the Basque electoral census, was expanded to include any elderly person who is registered in the flag of a Basque municipality, provided that he belongs to a state of the European Union or legally resides in Basque. Is this an obstacle or a setback, Mr. Martinez? The use of new technologies was allowed, with the possibility of electronic signature on web pages. Is this a setback or an obstacle, Mr. Martinez? It was established that the promoters had a voice during the parliamentary process of the initiative; indeed, as we have seen recently, the parliamentary debate begins with the full defence of the initiative by a representative of the promoter committee. Is this an obstacle or a setback, Mr. Martinez? It is stipulated that the legal services of this House will give advice to the members of the promoter commission to facilitate their compliance with the formal requirements. Is this an obstacle or a setback, Mr. Martinez? The first additional provision states that "at the beginning of the process of collecting signatures – this was introduced at the initiative of EH Bildu – and if so requested by the promoter commission, local authorities will be empowered, within the municipal availabilities and in the terms authorized by the competent council, to carry out its legal functions". Is this an obstacle or a setback, Mr. Martinez? And the amount of compensation for the expenses incurred is increased by 50%, from EUR 12,000 to EUR 18,000. Is this an obstacle or a setback? All these and some more – I will not bore you, Mr Martínez – are 'the obstacles, setbacks and impediments' that the law has 10/2016 versus the previous one of 1986. In short, that Law 10/2016 made significant progress in this area, by minimizing the main difficulties raised for its use, which were basically the excessive number of signatures and bureaucratic procedures. And that is not true what you use as justification for your initiative, as there has been no setback in the area of cost compensation. On the contrary: an increase of 50 % of the maximum amounts to be collected, in addition to the possibility of giving an advance of up to EUR 2,000 for the first costs of collecting signatures. He might have argued that it did not seem right to him how it had been regulated, but not that with the new law there has been a setback in this matter, since that, as we have said, is totally false. He has explained to us what was the cause: the inclusive school ILP. And he said that they are for proposals that in Parliament have not been addressed... "I will not enter into that matter," but what I do know is that the law, the law... He said that they realized that, if it were not taken into account in this House, the costs were not covered. The law was published in the State Official Gazette on July 21, 2016. From 2016... It clearly states that "the expenditure incurred by the committee promoting the dissemination of the proposal and the collection of signatures will be compensated from the budgets of the Basque Parliament when, meeting the requirements of this law, it has been taken into consideration by the plenary of the House, and for a maximum amount of 18,000 euros". I don't know where the confusion, the mistake, the mistake... I think it's pretty clear. In fact, it is clearer than in the previous law, which is what was intended. And, on the other hand, we understand, as stated in the report of the Basque Government, that neither the time that has elapsed – just over two years – nor the number of popular legislative initiatives registered in the House since the entry into force of the law – I believe there have been three – allow an objective assessment of the new law, to see whether or not the objectives of its adoption have been met. In fact, we can say, as I point out, that one of them – to which you referred – has benefited from the reduction in the number of signatures. I think it was over 17,000. The previous law required 30,000. To conclude, I ask the rest of the teams to respect the severity of the parliamentary work, ours, and ours of the representative ofUPyD, and of those who participated in the Society, and of the Society of EH, (Unalus and Mr. Lópezin). That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u54	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. In passing to the answers, Podemos, Monsieur Martínezinón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u55	It is a good thing that we have not proposed a complete reform of the law, which has been quite concrete what we have done. My apologies to those of the previous legislature; my apologies for making an initiative. Let's see, Mr. Barrio, to explain what our initiative says. Our initiative is that, once the requirements are met, which is a prerequisite for the collection of signatures, when it is registered in the Register, when it then goes to the Bureau and then the electoral board is the one that leads the whole process, it is after, when it comes here to the parliamentary debate, it is when we say that, if the previous requirements have been met, the signatures have been collected as they have to be collected, all that has been done, be free. And besides, it would be an improvement that, for once... As I usually bring examples from somewhere else – in this case, from Congress – I will quote the preamble to the law that regulates this in the Congress of Deputies: "Finally, a substantial improvement in state compensation for the expenses incurred has been established, provided that the number of signatures required for the success of the initiative is reached." The aim is to avoid the burden of exercising a form of participation in public life as set out in the Constitution. That is what we want to bring here: that, once all the requirements have been met and we have all the signatures collected, that can be compensated. And now we're in... Then another thing, each parliamentary group in the process will think one thing or the other, will be dealt with or will not be dealt with, but what we are saying is very clear. Mr Zorrilla, I think the initial intervention was expected in another way, because, otherwise not, but mixing and embarrassing you have done enough. I believe that the same has happened to the Lehendakari on Friday morning, in response to my parliamentary spokesman. Yeah, I think the same thing's happened to him. I haven't talked at all anywhere – we can get together tomorrow, and review the session log – about new obstacles. I haven't talked about that; I've talked about that the law was improving, that the law of 2016 was improving, and that's what we say. The only thing we're saying is that, in the matter of expenses, well, it can be a forget, it can be a neglect, maybe there was no agreement on that subject... But to me, people who have been in this parliamentary process, which I am obviously not going to quote because it was not a public debate, they also told me, well, this could have been an issue that we could have addressed at the time and it would have been an even better law. We are not questioning at any time, nor am I questioning, the work of 2016: neither is the work of 2016 more legitimate, nor is my work more legitimate at this time. There's no question of legitimacy there... Well, congratulations if it was unanimous. I wasn't, my group wasn't, in that chamber. And when someone realizes things. Well, look: I am not perfect, neither my parliamentary group nor the three parties that make up my parliamentary group are perfect. I know that you, who come from the PNV, Basque Nationalist Party, are perfect. We all know that: they teach it to us from a young age on Basque public television; that's what they teach us... I'm learning day by day. I am also learning from the social struggles and social initiatives that come to this Parliament, in this short period that I have been a parliamentarian; I am learning, and yes, look, I recognize that my group and I realized that the law could be improved after that debate. I recognize it; it's on the record. I don't know what's wrong with it; I don't know what's wrong with not coming here with all the wise lesson. I think self-congratulation, sometimes, is a bad companion and a bad travel companion, a bad travel companion. What we are saying, all we are saying, and let's not demagogue, is that if the legislation is met, that if the requirements are met, the expenses are compensated. Why can the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos, that of Euskal Herria Bildu, that of the People's Party, that of the Basque Nationalist Party and that of the Socialist Party of Basque – after an electoral process – propose legislative proposals that are admitted to the process or not? And, obviously, that's not for us... In other words, it does not involve any expenditure, but it is paid to groups, parliamentarians and advisers. The only thing we are saying, of course, is that this expenditure is not made up of the citizens who want to organise themselves to bring initiatives to this Parliament; only that, we are not talking about anything else: let us focus the debate. Finally, he asked me a question: yes, we will vote in favour of all popular legislative initiatives that comply with parliamentary procedure, that comply with human rights. All popular legislative initiatives that run counter to human rights, of course, will not count on our vote. And you know, perfectly, what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u56	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. "Duplica," I said. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u57	Yes, with your permission from the seat, President. Simply and briefly, to tell Mr Martínez that I have understood him perfectly, and I have understood his initiative perfectly. But I have already told you – and I say it again – that we do not agree. That we do not agree with the way in which he somehow disqualifies something as important as Parliament's plenary, in relation to the effects that arise following the consideration of a popular legislative initiative. It is perfectly established in Law 10/2016 and has to be carried out, not only the evaluation of the Bureau of the Basque Parliament, which is an objective evaluation of formal procedures, but the political evaluation that a House, which a plenary, makes in relation to an initiative that, in addition, will be installed in the legislative procedure. I think that is the seriousness, that is the rigour; that is also what ensures that the procedures prior to that consideration are the best for citizens, be the search for signatures, the search for political elements, the search for argumental elements, the search for legal elements that convince this House and that is the fundamental element. That is also a challenge; that must also be done well, and we cannot enter into risks or structures with lack of guarantees, which can use the waste that Mr Martínez allowed them at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martinez, if you want, we'll meet to review the session log, and we can see that under no circumstances did you say that the law was improving. That, first point. And secondly, I may not have said here today, on this stand, on this atrium, that they were obstacles. But, if he reads his bill, he says: "It's de facto supposed to be I do not know whether it has become clear to you or not that, with the new law, the circumstances of the previous law are not changed... Because he did not want today, even though it was his fundamental basis for the proposed law, to enter into this issue, and in case there is any doubt, because apart from what Law 8/1986 said, in the 5th Legislature, there is a general resolution of the Presidency, of 13 February of 98 – Mr Martínez, I think it is important, and that if you do not know it, it can come to you well – which, with the favorable opinion of the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen –Message in which, by the way, there was a representative of the United Left; I do not know whether Julián Orella Barrios currently belongs to his group or not –... but this resolution stated that, for the compensation of expenditure, 1998 "for the compensation of expenditure arising from a popular legislative initiative, up to the limit of the maximum amount fixed in each financial year, it will be necessary, first, that the proposed law has been taken into consideration by the House and published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Parliament". That was in '98. "May the committee which promotes it justify the expenditure before the Bureau in a formal manner. The date on which Parliament approves the consideration will be the determining factor in determining the amount." Therefore, there is no amendment to the Law from 98 to 2016 under these conditions, except that the maximum amount to be received in case of subsidy is increased by 50 % and the advance of EUR 2,000 for the collection of the first signatures is envisaged. He said that a person of the paper for whom anonymity is kept – well, for we are not many, the truth, and I have told him who we are, therefore – says that he could have done better. Well, he under his conscience... We – I can speak for myself –... I think Mr Barrio has spoken for him, those who are not can't speak logically, but those who have been trying to make the best law possible, looking for all possible balances. I asked him a question, to which he answered me – the truth, I thought he wasn't going to answer me – and he told me that you... I hope to remind you; as I said the other day..., as Aitor Esteban said yesterday, he will be chasing you throughout Europe: here he will be chasing you in this Parliament many times, I imagine. He says that they will always vote in favour of taking into consideration all popular legislative initiatives that are presented in this House... Well, all right, we'll read it over and over again. As long as they meet the requirements, as long as they meet the legal requirements...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u60	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u61	I'm going to give you an example: two examples I'm just going to give you; two examples. Just got into it, I'm going to give you two examples. The last legislature, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u62	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u63	The past legislature presented a popular legislative initiative for the modification of the RGI, led by Mr Maroto, which, despite having the legally required endorsements, 30,000 signatures, was rejected by all parliamentary groups, except the People's Party. I thought that, if you had been here, you would also have voted against it; but, from what you tell me, if it comes back, you will have to vote in favour, because it meets the requirements, 30,000 signatures at that time, which were the legal requirements, and, in this case... of the approach...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u64	Quiet, please. You will clarify it later, once the debate is over, please. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u65	Are they also entitled to compensation for expenses, with public money, initiatives that are unanimously rejected by this House? And the other example: the same arbitrariness that he spoke of in his writing... I want to remind you that here there was an ILP of Kidetza, to regulate, summarizing, what was called the shared custody law. Do you know who was the only Member of Parliament who voted against this consideration on 28 June 2012? The United Left Parliamentarian: the United Left Parliamentarian voted against initiating, taking into consideration, with an arbitrary and political decision, of course, taking into consideration and dealing with that law. Thank God – well, thank God, no, thanks to the parliamentarians who were present at that time – everyone else supported that initiative and it was processed. As I said before, Law 10/2016 was the last passed in the last legislature, and, well, I imagined that the groups that make up Elkarrekin Podemos (United Left, among them), although they were not in Parliament, had no doubt that they would have followed parliamentary activity, at least the legislative production of Parliament, in some cases even found that little, with more reason. And, in this sense, what I'm surprised about – it's made clear to us later, but well – is that, after the elections on September 25, 2016, with the inauguration in October 2016, it's been almost two years for this. He has already told us – and I had already noticed – that the initiative was presented just the day after the ILP was rejected for inclusive school, endorsed by more than 17,000 signatures and presented by the citizen Sabin Zubiri. I don't know if they were a coincidence, but... This coupled with the retroactivity they pose, so that this initiative can be included, could lead us to think that this crematistic interest of Elkarrekin We may have something to do with the political attachment of this citizen. It seems that we are now going to legislate for specific cases or for the generality of cases. We legislate or try to legislate for the generality of cases, not for specific cases, and this has ratings, but I'm not going to use them... Simply to conclude, in the face of legislation that is at the cutting edge of the bush, our group defends, as Mr Barrio also said, responsible and serious legislation, adopted with the greatest possible consensus and with the vocation of permanence over time, guaranteeing legal certainty. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u66	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u67	So we consider the legal proposition. Next, we'll go to the vote. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u68	The Socialist Group, as has been seen, has voted in favour of the proposal for a law put forward by the Elkarrekin Podemos group. Because, from the Socialist Group, basically, we believe in participation and because we are aware that in the law that we passed in the last parliamentary term, very late and after a lengthy parliamentary procedure, there were still issues to be addressed. However, I also say to you, Mr Martínez Zatón, that we do not share the specific proposals that we are proposing and that what we are going to seek from this group is to improve them in the parliamentary procedure that we have allowed to open today. They have told him, but I will remind him, that in 2016 there was the adoption of this law that regulates popular legislative initiative, an adoption that had a long parliamentary process and that had a virtue, and it was that it created a broad consensus, because all groups were able to yield positions to make significant progress with respect to the legislation that had been in force until then. It was a reform that was based, as you say in your explanatory statement, not, but in law, on facilitating the participation of citizens in all matters concerning them. It is a reform – they have remembered it with a lot of vehemence and much longer than what I am going to have here – which facilitated the participation of citizens in the legislative function, which made the procedure simpler and less restrictive that initiatives could be put forward for debate in this Parliament. The most important ones, but not the only ones, although some have already been mentioned: the number of signatures was reduced from 30,000 to 10,000; the spectrum of people who could sign was opened up, and the promoters could participate throughout the parliamentary process and not only when they presented it. All these changes were made with that clear objective, Mr Martínez, and we believe that that objective has been achieved. That is why we cannot share what you say in your proposal, when you say that the rule is a setback and an impediment to the exercise of popular legislative initiative, primarily because that statement, and you know it, is false. However, you raise the need for us to re-discuss and for us to re-discuss is never inconsistent. We believe that, with an excessively limited view of the objective you are proposing, because I believe that you are doing so only from an economic point of view, from an economic cost-reimbursement point of view, you are only asking us to discuss how and when the expenses that the exercise of this tool can cause or can generate the promoters of initiatives are being reimbursed. And I think it is good that we should remember that there were other outstanding issues in that process, for example, and that is something that was mentioned, although Mr Zorrilla did not want to do so in his speech, the possibility of facilitating the process of collecting electronic signatures from the public administration. Mention was made of the possibility that Irekia could have a space to facilitate the collection of signatures. If we look at it from the economicist perspective that you have raised, I think it is better to look for another way to remove those obstacles than simply'sign a cheque in any case'. The Socialists are not going to want to focus the debate on an exclusively economic issue – I have moved it previously – of how much, when and how expenses are paid, but we believe that on the recent experiences we have had in this House, which have been two, we are discussing how we can facilitate or improve, even more, the participation of citizens, for example, through electronic means. Because if we all look at a more transparent and less biased look at the expense ratio that has been presented to us, we have seen that some of them have to do with that electronic processing and not with anything else and that, the other thing, was easily solved without opening a modification of the ILP. Therefore, we believe that, from seriousness, from responsibility, from coherence, I believe that we will be able, without fear and without prejudice to reopen a debate, to reach a new broad agreement in this House, to improve that tool, which for us is as powerful as citizen participation, as is the popular legislative initiative. We hope to meet, with the whole parliamentary bow during that process.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u70	Well, thank you, ma'am, and good noon to all of you. We voted for it, not so much as to observe the content, but to observe the choice which it opens, because 2016. I believe that the arrangement of the law of the legislator of the people, which had been already introduced here in this country, or in the several legislators of the people which have been transmitted in this part of our country, has been so well agreed and agreed upon in the year, that it has been shown, that it has still been attended with privations, and that there are still obstacles, in which this part of the community has been kept open in a very wide and very democratic manner. Weste dugu koherentziaz aritu garela, zeren eta, aurreko legealdian eta hemen aipatua izan den bezala, as in the previous legislature, EH Bildu has always had a character and has had a proactive attitude in opening the doors of participation to the population and citizenship, and here some of the issues that have been improved in this sense in that amendment of the popular legislative initiative, including the number of necessary signatures that have dropped from 30,000 to 10,000. But it must be remembered that EH Bildu at the time also requested that that number of signatures be even less. Then, too, the issue of the census and the pattern has been recalled here, thus enabling people who come to live in this part of our country to participate in such legislative initiatives as well. And then another issue that has been debated here today, which are the issues that go against and violate human rights cannot be brought through popular legislative initiatives, but EH Bildu did somehow want to put a limitation even further, making contributions on the ethical limits of those popular legislative initiatives, so that there are no cases like the one the People's Party used, bringing here the modification of the RGI of the famous Maroto. Therefore, one of the greatest achievements also – if I wanted to remember – that EH Bildu brought and that, in some way, we consider opening up the possibility of debate, and with the relationship of the presentation, so that the different political groups can bring new contributions, was to give voice to the proponents of these initiatives. And that's something that EH Bildu pushed from the beginning, and that's something that this legislature has seen here with the two popular legislative initiatives that have been brought in: one on poverty and the other on school segregation. Therefore, this is basically what we are voting for, the opportunity now being opened up to further improve and, in this sense, with our proactive attitude, we can still bring in initiatives that deepen even further in participatory democracy. At that time, EH Bildu brought the proposal to give a final round of speaking to the proponents of the popular legislative initiative, not just a round of speaking of that initiative, and that issue was not agreed with the rest of the groups. And we believe that, by opening this opportunity, it will be one of the issues that we can bring here, some proposals that we can bring, as it falls within the logic used by the government in this Parliament. That is to say, the Government, always in appearances, the Government, when it comes here to discuss issues or even in full control, always has the last turn of the word. Why won't the people have it? Why won't people have it? Why at that time the different political groups or some of those you are represented here, others were not in the previous legislature, will not be able to have that last turn of word? Because the Basque parliamentarian Santi Brouard, sadly murdered on November 20, 1984, when he ran for mayor at Bilbao City Hall in 1979, in those elections, made a famous phrase, which said that "the best mayor is the people". Well, for Euskal Herria Bildu too, the best government is the people. Here it is legislated so that the government will then execute what we in this Parliament legislate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u71	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Five point in theme list: "The other proposition of the law of Parliament is, that of the judicial power. Discipline and final resolution. The council's turn is the Representative of the EH Collectors. Madam, the field is yours to introduce and defend the enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u72	Yeah. Good afternoon, all of you, and thank you, Your Honor, for giving me your word. I'll begin to discuss the importance of the theme. We must never go to a tribunal like this, and probably we always see that it is very far away. But unfortunately, that's one thing that doesn't happen a lot. And I think that the subject is important and that we have to make this discussion, so to speak, what problems are there, and then, if possible, to find solutions. I'll begin to say something that's very important to me, and that's pretty clear to me: for me, that justice is refined, and that's one thing that's always being very clear everywhere at this moment. I shall say more, that in many cases the interest of the State depends upon it. And it depends, as it were, when they always touch the habits of the state. That's what I saw yesterday when we were in front of the Supreme Tribunal, when we saw the trial against Catalan. And it was quite clear when we heard the attorney's intervention: He tried to explain to the public that this was a criminal judgment, but when he said a few particular sentences, and proposed certain particular things, it was evident that the judgment was a perfectly political one, and what the consequences of the nature of this political trial would be. Because he said: "It is a trial in defense – not of legality, not to enforce laws, no, no – in defense of the constitutional order, in defense of the political framework that exists; it is a trial that wants to make clear that those who have rights are the Spaniards, who are the only ones who decide and this is the framework that we have." Eta horrek argi utilten duena da zer-nolako Justiziaren aurrean gauden. That justice is absolutely politicized, we are clear, subject to the short-term interests of the State and, above all, as I said before, when it deals with power structures. In the past few months, justice and justice and their judgments have been spoken of. Besides, we've seen this in different times: On one side, there have been strikes, La Manada. What have we seen with that? There is doubt of the independence of the Judicial Power. And we have also considered the reactions of some of us, when we were speaking of independence and independence of the jurisdiction of the Judicial Power. For me, it is very significant that if judges strike and sit behind a banner where they say they want to be independent and let them be independent... it is very significant that they say that they are themselves. Because, with that, they are telling us that, in fact, there is no such independence. And why isn't there? Because, through the different reforms that have been made in the General Council of the Judiciary when it comes to electing the members, what has been intended is that, in fact, this independence does not exist and that those people who sit there are something like politicians toned, who are always in defense of the interests of those who put them. That is, they are more political than professional judges. And that's why the judges themselves talk about the lack of independence. But what we have to emphasise with this is another thing: In this respect the disproportion of justice increases. Because what happens – and people ask themselves – when judges cannot escape the political impulse of those who put them? Well, we have the sentences we have. What happens when judges decide things according to what they believe and what those who put them say they have to believe? Well, we have the sentences as we do. And that's something that's also in everyone's mouth. And society is clear: society has an opinion, but in order to know what they think, the Chief Council of Lawyers made an inquiry at its very moment, and went to inquire into society: What do you think of justice? And the answers are very significant, and very interesting and important. The opinion of the citizen about Spanish justice is that it is ineffective, that it is unintelligible, that it is antisocial and that it is totally and absolutely disorganized and that it needs a comprehensive reform. But they said more: 50% of the respondents said it worked badly; 60% said that the rule of law in Spain is going wrong with Europe, and 88 considered the Council to be partial and politically influenced. Horiek izan zirens weretzunak. If we go through that to the Basque Country Society, it's the same thing, what they did in that poll was the results of different communities, and so it was. But to this we must add another thing: The Basque Country is impossible to resist when you go to justice. Your linguistic rights are not guaranteed when you go to justice here. At this moment, it is impossible to make a trial of it here. It's impossible! That is to say, with all things that are planned, we ought also to apply its use to it in almost all ways of justice; but above all in verbal judgments. And that's very important. We have also seen the opinions which are about justice, and we shall soon find some other opinions, because we have an appearance in the Committee of Justice; and we have directly seen what is going on in the Violence Court, in order to make an argument. Well, that's another example, and that's what's happening right now. In the Basque Country, that's what's happening, and that's what we see is that we have to change. We are very clear that a democratic people, a country that wants to live in democracy, needs an independent Justice, and needs a Justice that respects all rights and freedoms and that, in its activity, makes this a reality. And it also needs to have a structure that will enable all these issues to be carried forward. We made different interference, and when the first was done, the legislature began, we said it plainly in the Basque Country. And even in this autonomous autonomism of the everybody else, it was absolutely necessary to have a proper judicial power. That's what we said. that we did not only see the legislature or the executive, but that it was necessary to have a judicial power in order to carry things forward. That's what we said. That's what we're saying. We have heard this many times in various discussions, but at the present moment it is not a reality, and therefore we proclaim it with this proposition: This is what we demand, and we wish it to be attained. We who profess a free state in the Basque Country plan it, as a privilege, and we say it is a necessary thing. But not only do we want the judiciary; we also want to have the capacity to equip ourselves with our own laws, to organize it and to be able to implement it. Parliament is talking about a new model of status, and in this new model of status there is and has been a discussion on this issue, and there are particular votes, and there are those who raise one thing and there are those who raise another. We are very clear that we need a genuine judiciary, that we need a quality judiciary, a judiciary where linguistic rights are recognized and can be put into practice, that is truly effective, that is effective, that has a gender perspective, that, we have also pointed out in other interventions, we believe that it does not have, that it can carry out all the proceedings with free justice in the service of the most vulnerable sectors, a non-arbitrary justice. In short, a Justice with a real independence and putting, above all, the rights of citizens and the equality of citizens before the law. This is why we proclaim the necessity of our own judicial power, which is what we propose in our proposition. It is true that, together with this, we plan two more points, and it is true, in this case, that it has been impossible for us to arrive at an agreement. We couldn't get the agreement. And what is it that separates us? One thing, and in some cases I have made no attempt to make a treaty, and I am conscious not to make the need of one's own judicial power, and I know that some do not want it, because they think that the part must still remain in use of justice in Madrid, and because I will not change it, or move it, is what I have thought: pues, para perder el timmos nadie y, efectivaente, es mucho mejor queminmos cada nuestras policion y que nos retroatemos aquio, y digamos porué, aía de nomos soo soo capas deicari un judicier patro. What is the reason that prevents us from saying that we want to have our own judicial power and why we do not agree with this circumstance? And, of course, since I am not going to make that change or change of that part of the proposal, it is because of what has been – as it has been easier at other times – impossible to reach an agreement, because I know that, in many of the things I have said, we agree: we agree on the need to make the changes, that we want to make Justice independent; I know that we would agree on the general philosophy – I have no doubt – but we do not agree on the fundamental point. That is why we maintain our proposal in the terms we do, it is the one that we put to the vote, and what I would now like is to hear the objections and approaches of each and every one, in view of the proposal we are making. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u73	Thank you, madam. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. We will see what the outcome of the debate is, because, after all, it is difficult to believe that the coincidence of this debate with the start of the trial of Catalan politicians is a coincidence, so we are probably going back to talking about Catalonia in this Parliament, either tangentially or centrally, the ninth time in a year and a half and, although that is not supposed to be the objective, everything points to a large part of the debate. Apart from this, we, without obviating this issue, are going to focus on what the text presented for debate literally deals with, since the shortcomings in the judicial system, of course, are not minor, and it is a matter of concern to citizens. We live in unstable political times, at the door of a new electoral call, which will clearly be announced this Friday and, after having been buried in the Congress of Deputies, the most social budgets that have been seen there. We cannot ignore the context of serious institutional crisis and legitimacy that certain institutions are suffering. It's there, it's undeniable that it's there, and within that context, Justice is one of the worst powers to stand still. There is nothing more to see than the assessment of citizenship about the judiciary. It is only necessary to attend to recent studies to see what is the citizen's perception of one of the fundamental pillars of a democracy. The Sociometer published by the Basque Government in December 2018 indicates that the level of confidence of Basque citizens in Justice is 28%, in the tail van of the worst rated, little more than the confidence they have institutions as questioned as the Catholic Church can be and, if anything, in its lowest share of the historical series and with a downward trend falling to lead. Although it has never had a high assessment, the best result was 41% achieved in 2007, and it is clear that different factors – including, in particular, political decisions – have caused justice to be injured in the eyes of citizens over the past 10 years. If we look at another study, the last of Euskobarometer, the data is even worse. The separation of powers receives a score of 2.7 and Justice is among the worst rated, along with the Patronal and IBEX 35. Argi dago deskonfiantza honek badituela gauza objektibo batzuk, base bat daukala; ez da dohainik datorren pertzepzio bat. Gainera, argi dago ikusi dugula Botere Judizialak esfortzuak egin dituela berarengan deskreditua ekartzeko: political acts have been suspended; puppeteers have been accused of raising terrorism; there have been direct attacks on freedom of expression with actions on artists, tweeters; magazines such as El Thursday have been kidnapped And today we can't be obviating, either, from the political discrepancy with the process In this case, we have always said this – and I repeat it here today –: the judicialization of politics solves nothing and cannot be the axis on which to face the Catalan challenge, and that the people trapped in the process Pero, volviendo a la cuestion, la Crisis del Poder Judicial es grave. It is a very profound and very serious crisis that the Judicial Power endures: it destroys the equality which lies in front of the law, and leaves the executive power without opposition. The division of power, which is a pillar of democracy, renders them suspicious, because they do not know what will happen to them in the community. How are we going to ask citizens to respect the law, if an institution like the Supreme Court does not respect its own? Without an independent, solid and reliable judiciary, the negative consequences will always be for them: citizenship and democracy. And, faced with those who rub their hands with the discredit of the institutions, or those who subscribe 'to the worst of it' and try to bring this to the impossibility, for example, of State reform, we reaffirm ourselves in the search for real and achievable solutions, in thinking of constitutional and political reforms, that make our democracy exemplary. In Elkarrekin Podemos, let's not talk about this problem; on the contrary, we worry and, constructively, try to propose solutions. With partial justice, patriarchal and subject to political power, we lose all and all. Comprehensive reform of the Office of the Prosecutor is necessary: from the appointment of the Attorney-General, transparency measures should be adopted to raise awareness of issues, such as decision-making criteria or their allocation with greater and better resources for the fight against corruption. Because, let us not be mistaken, not all of us are equal before the law: some play with advantage, and a fiscal ministry without resources and at the service of the government of turn always plays in favour of them. The General Council of the Judiciary must have a system of direct election, which does not make appointments conditional on political squatters. Immediate depoliticization of the Constitutional Court is necessary. It cannot be a belt of transmission of political power or economic oligarchies. Of course, a public and external audit is necessary to identify the organizational needs of the judicial system, to ensure its independence and a quality public service for citizens. And, of course, justice is needed that takes into account the needs and demands of half the population. There was a need to end judicial proceedings that blamed women victims of violence. It is urgent to put an end to sexist sentences that revitalise, that lack a gender perspective and, ultimately, to a justice that systematically abandons women. There are many changes that the judicial system needs, and they are not anything: we are faced with one of the three fundamental powers of a State. This is not something that can be done with a simple minority, nor does it seem to fit with a government that sees how it changes its mind every day. Today more than ever, it is necessary: politically sound governments, with a clear country project, with a plural but reliable majority that gives it stability. In view of yesterday's vote in Madrid, it is shown that this is urgent. Yesterday, in the Congress of Deputies, social conquests were boycotted with partisan interests; irresponsibly, the door is opened to a new electoral time, the result of which can bring us back to one of the darkest times in our history. That is why, more than ever before, it is necessary to build progressive majorities at all institutional levels, from the smallest municipality to the government of the State, that allow for democratic and progress policies, and to address reforms as far-reaching as that of the judicial system. Finally, I would like to ask for a point vote on EH Bildu's original proposal, because, although I do not share it 100%, I believe that there are a number of coincident points where Elkarrekin Podemos would like to give his positive point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u75	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u76	Mrs Goirizelaia, yesterday, when I had to prepare for the intervention, there was a moment when I had a certain doubt, saying: "Likewise, Alexia, you are becoming suspicious, and it is true that behind this proposal of law, there is a concern, so supposedly motivated the withdrawal to then resubmit the initiative." But, Mrs. Goirizelaia, there's a saying that "although the monkey dresses in silk..." Well, anyway, this is what happens to EH Bildu: that, although he looks social, abertzale stays. I mean, I think that was the summary of your speech. I say this to you because in the nuclear part of your GNP, then, there is not the conflict that arose between different courts over the mortgage issue and that you withdrew to put it back into the text and bring it back to this plenary, is there? And I say it well: it was between different courts – and you know it – judges from different fields, with different points of view in the resolution on this matter. Because the core of what is at stake here, and to you it has not cost you anything to get to it, is point three, because, for you, an independent Euskadi, an own judiciary, is already a guarantee of independence. They confuse once again – and care, which we have already repeated – the independence of the judiciary with independence. They are often also involved in other things, when they talk about independence in ETB and, in reality, they talk about independence, or when they talk about the independence of the judiciary, that it is the independenceists who determine who has to be at the head of the judicial governing bodies and that the various judicial decisions, if possible, give them reason. And this I don't invent, uh, because you have invoked, in the exhibition of your PNL, the bases that your party and the Basque Nationalist Party have approved in the self-government presentation. You know that I am not a member of that self-government paper, and, as I am not there, I have read them: I have taken the part that refers to the judiciary and the truth is that I have not found a line, nor a middle, nor a line – and I have looked at it with affection and care – where you can interpret what you claim with your own judiciary, which you know perfectly well – which is why we have not tried so much a transactional – my party disagrees openly and bluntly, is that there is a system that guarantees more effectively the independence of those who exercise that judiciary, who are the judges and the judges. What there is is an almost mimetic transfer of what exists now, that is, under the cloak of what you call the political subject. I'll tell you more... I have also read the particular vote that EH Bildu, you know, maintains on this subject, and the truth, has not contributed anything innovative to me either: absolutely nothing of what they say in the justification of that initiative and which you have told us here is even insinuated in that sacrosanct agreement of bases. So there is the first falsehood, the one that they want to hold as the backdrop of a cheating debate, which is the one that they bring us here today, because beyond the manifest unconstitutionality of the proposal that you bring us, there is not a single data on which to hold that one's own judiciary was more independent than the one we share today with the rest of the Spaniards. And the second falsehood is that someone who wants to talk about judicial independence, then, sentence from the political power; the legislature, in this case. Nor is it very novel, that is true; it is quite common on the part of EH Bildu. When you are dissatisfied with a decision, as we can also be others, what we cannot do is to erect ourselves into an alternative sentencing power, which is what the proposer does, by affirming, without any doubt to her, that the Supreme Court, with regard to the payment of mortgage costs, made a plaything, and that it obeys the pressure and interests of the bank; this is an accusation in every rule, that you, as an experienced lawyer, know perfectly where the channel is to denounce. What I think there is is a clear contradiction between what a room decided and what a plenary resolved; something difficult to understand. And in that we could agree, but that clear contradiction is also found in the very statement that Mrs Goirizelaia makes to me in this proposal not of law; because, if, according to her, the judiciary is not independent, how does it explain that some magistrates, who, as you know, are in themselves the judiciary, indeed, would have issued a resolution that yes shared and that was the subsequent one that you do not share. What leads us to the third big lie in this debate is that we are not talking here about the independence of the judiciary, not even the interests of citizens, consumers, or anything like that. Here we are, as on so many other occasions, questioning those who do not give us reason, questioning plurality, questioning everything that has to do with Spain and deploring a clearly guaranteed system, which has been, with all the discrepancies that we can maintain also with regard to many decisions that have been dictated, one of the spearheads to make it possible today, for example, here you and I are discussing this, because those same courts endorsed the work that you, Mrs Goirizelaia, did in your day so that the party to which you belong is doing it, against even a broad social sector in the rest of Spain. Or don't we remember this? And the fourth great lie is the paradox that today, February 14, some spokesman said to me, "How curious, true; it's coincidence." Man, coincidence, coincidence... Since we are discussing an initiative that was registered first in May 2018, that we withdraw it in November, to resubmit it immediately, under a supposed citizen interest with that resolution on mortgage expenses, because very random, true... I believe that EH Bildu's emergencies were not those of consumers, who, by the way, have already been solved from other instances – not even you mentioned it – and, by the way, of socialists: there will no longer be any capacity for interpretation of mortgage expenses by any court in this regard. That was arranged from the legislative branch. The urgency, Mrs Goirizelaia, the need for EH Bildu was to have a cabinet fund on judicial matters to take them out for convenience; in this case, to make it coincide with the trial of the trial This debate is different from the excuses with which his initiative is varnished, beyond that it can also serve as a showcase within that personal electoral campaign he is conducting. This already goes from what we know, that you do not accept any judicial decision that does not give you reason, and worst of all, you do not even grant the slightest presumption of innocence to judges, except to those who have given themselves in some media and have some theses or maintain some theses that do not contradict them in excess. Your only presumption of innocence is for those who think like you, and that is what we are most concerned about, to continue with that narrow mind that does not understand plurality. The Socialist Group does not like this trial; it does not like that Catalan independence leaders have dragged into their decisions situations that are out of the law and that only the judges will have to value. And we didn't like the previous Spanish government hiding under their robes and giving up politics. But when we come to this situation, which is the time we are at, what we want is for the judges to make their decisions by assessing the evidence presented in the oral trial, which, as you know, Mrs Goirizelaia, is how things are done and how things should be done and, in the meantime, for politicians to do politics. That is why we are defending in our amendment something without traps, without cardboard, without doubles and without third intentions and also very clear, and you knew it perfectly well. We want the Basque Parliament to demonstrate that it defends an independent judicial system, that guarantees the principle of separation of powers between the executive, the legislature and the judiciary, as well as the principles and values on which the rule of law must be based, with the ultimate aim of ensuring the protection of the rights of citizens. I already recognize that this is much less exciting than what you propose, Mrs Goirizelaia, but I tell you that this is much more secure and effective in a rule of law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u78	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, comrades of the legislatures, chief officers; good day to all. It is not easy to reach this subject, because I do not know what the motive or motive is after it. Upon your word, the High Court is gathering an immense confusion, and you mention the cases that have been mediatic, and the other, procés of Catalonia, La Manada. And this Chamber has sometimes given its opinion in our debates, when every subject has appeared. We have taken notice of every subject mentioned, and our party has explained and advanced its position. I will not enter into the cause of this initiative, as others have done, nor with the moment at which I have chosen to accomplish this initiative. We can agree with a lot of things that are said in it, in many diagnosiss: we often meet with this diagnosis, but totum revolutum procés. But we do not agree with the union of disputes about it, and the conclusions explained. The political formation to which I represent has formally said – and I repeat it today – that "there is a long and alarming list of cases in which the highest European authorities are failing against the Kingdom of Spain, because of the violation of the right of the accused to a fair trial and because of their lack of impartiality". "This succession of judicial rattlesnakes should blush at the Spanish State's Administration of Justice. It is time, therefore, for the Spanish Administration of Justice to undertake a profound renewal of its structures, operation and selection criteria, in order to match its actions with European procedural standards in defence of rights." This was said, we said, with regard to the Bateragune case, but it is perfectly applicable to what we are seeing these days. I repeat: it is time for the Spanish Administration of Justice to undertake a profound renewal of its structures, operation and selection criteria, in order to match its actions with European procedural standards in defence of rights. EH Bildu's letter, in his petition, makes special mention of the noisy spectacle in the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court, with the tax on documented legal acts. As mentioned by the previous spokesman, this issue has, in particular, been jeopardized, overtaken by events. The same applies to any of the other cases mentioned, which you mention on your initiative. But the truth is that the forms and actions of some judicial and political bodies have exposed the judicial system and questioned its impartiality, its dependence on political parties, its submission to economic and financial powers, as Elkarrekin Podemos says in his amendment. Recent events have led to a certainly chaotic situation and, surely, to the worst moment of discrediting justice in the Kingdom of Spain. I will, however, in the course of this day proceed to the principle of prudence, at least with the della Rebbia. It's not easy, but I think it's necessary, and with the correction we protect, we don't fall into any contradiction. What we're saying is: The legislature of the United States defends the independent judicial system, which will ensure the principle of distinguishing the executive, the legislative, and the judicial power, as the principles and values which are founded on the state of justice, as the object of which is to secure the protection of the citizens' rights rights. And we move, Mrs Goirizelaia, from the forms of this initiative to the substance, which also becomes a question of form or methodology, of methodology, because I think that is the right thing to do. As you are well aware, there is a paper on the updating of the self-government of Euskadi, where there is a mention of the judiciary and, in particular, of the Basque General Judicial Council. With all the shades I want, but there it is. There are, therefore, consensus bases and particular votes presented. In particular, as far as the judiciary is concerned, his group has tabled a particular vote, specifically at base four, paragraph 2.3. It does not seem to me that, having completed certainly delicate parliamentary work and having appointed a group of experts to try to bring together positions and formulate articulated texts, it is going to condition or restrict its task or supplant its tasks, by means of agreements adopted in this House, and more taking into account the particular votes of other groups, which are in the opposites of their positions and of ours in this area. It does not seem very appropriate, neither prudent, nor advisable, to force the machine, Mrs Goirizelaia. It's rather time to grease it, to grease that machine. Let the experts do their work; then comes the genuine negotiation, in which everyone, including the PNV – and I hope EH Bildu – must make an effort to incorporate as much as possible into that consensus. Mr. Casanova said first that we must cook. If we have to work in the kitchen, let's do it too, in this case. There will then be time, Mrs Goirizelaia, to submit amendments to the text, after that cooking work to which we referred, and it will be the procedural time for your training to make the considerations you consider appropriate, with regard to the judiciary or any other matter. But it will be then, and not now. Let's not put the car in before the oxen, Mrs. Goirizelaia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u79	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, good morning to you all. The spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, Mr Latxaga, was beginning to say that it was not easy to prepare for today's intervention, and I am completely against his opinion. It's very simple: all you need is to have clear ideas. You have made a speech on the edge of the knife, neither yes, nor no, nor quite the contrary, and I will really urge you, from now on, to clarify in the second round what is meant by the amendment that you have signed with the other group that supports the Government, because I, frankly, am not clear what you are talking about. To me, the proposal for a law that has brought us to debate today by the EH Bildu group puts me in a very simple and clear position: I am against it. It's very easy: not for a few things, for a few nuances... No, I'm against it. It is a kind of logic exercise, with two premises, that ends in a third point that is a desideratum, a conclusion. We're starting from two assumptions, from my point of view. "I respect yours, Mrs. Goirizelaia," false, who come to a conclusion that, logically, could not be more than just false. I don't advocate for a judicial power of my own, because I understand that I already have it. It would be like asking that I want to be a Basque parliamentarian; I am. I have my own judicial power; I understand that we Spaniards have our own judicial power; the Basques have our own judicial power, and I am frankly ashamed of the attack you are making on those more than 5,500 judges and magistrates who, day by day, work in all one-person courts or collegiate courts, resolving matters brought before them by citizens, through more than a million and a half sentences per year. You've come up here to tell us that the judges themselves recognize that they are not independent because you've seen them behind a banner requesting the I don't know what. Either you don't understand things, Mrs. Goirizelaia, or you want to torturefully change what all those judges and magistrates want us to say, that their independence is respected, not that they are not independent, which is what you have come up to say here, that they are not independent. I have not heard judges and magistrates in office say that they are not independent. They demand respect for their independence. And you, here today, are not respecting the independence of judges and magistrates with large claims, with false claims, saying that these people do not carry out their judicial function under the law. By the way, there are many judgments that we don't like citizens, that we don't like justice operators and that we don't like politicians, but it's possible that those who sign them don't like them either. Why? Because the duty of a judge is not to give reason to whom he considers appropriate, but the duty of a judge is to enforce the laws. And, many times, those laws are not the most correct, they are not the most just, or they are not well done. And in that we should also look at the navel ourselves, who are a legislative power and who, often, do not legislate clearly and forcefully, so that then the application of those laws for the citizens is simple, and they do not have to be called to the courts to give reason to them or to an administration, or among the citizens themselves. Perhaps it is the fault of how it is legislated, and not just the judges. Obviously, of that million and a half of judgments, to which we add the resolutions of the more than 4,200 lawyers of the Administration of Justice and the 2,400 prosecutors in Spain, since we already make several million resolutions that affect the rights of citizens, not all of them are just and I do not share them, of course, but from this to say that they are all Machistas, who have a patriarchal bias; listen, here someone has passed the brake. Or what he wants is to build a speech in front of public opinion, saying that all these judges and magistrates are sexists. If there is any sphere of society in which the number of women abounds, it is precisely that of the judiciary. While I was listening to Mr Martínez's words, I was thinking of the Palace of Justice that we have here: the investigating judges, the judges of violence, are all women. Of the criminal judges we have here: a woman and a man. I would not dare say that your resolutions have macho bias, as you have done, Mr Martínez. Really, it seems to me a barbarity that you publicly maintain that speech, because it is not true. Like what happens is that the resolutions that many women sign, as judges and magistrates, you don't like them, and, as you don't like them, you say they're sexists, they're different. There may be precepts of the Criminal Code that you don't like, and judges and magistrates do what they do to apply them, but you can't blame them. Blame the one who legislates, not the one who enforces that justice. I insist, the judiciary, like all powers, is much better. But from there to making the chaotic criticism that we are in right now... you can't come here to tell, if it's not precisely for a spurious interest, which is to criticize the powers of the state. That I have heard here that Catalonia is being judged. Fry horn! What's going to be judging Catalonia?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Twelve gentlemen are being tried, who carried out certain acts, such as public authorities, who were, as politicians, and who are understood to be contrary to the law, and are therefore being tried. Catalan politicians are not being judged; the hundreds of thousands of Catalans are not being judged and not Catalan independenceists are being tried; 12 people are being tried in a court that is respecting all guarantees. Let us wait until the trial is over; let us see what the sentences say, and we will be able to criticize a judicial procedure, not a million and a half of the procedures that take place here a year. I also heard Mr.Latxaga talking to us and telling us that –well, well... – countless lists of decisions of the Court of Human Rights punishing the Kingdom of Spain for violation of procedural rights. Of the 1.5 million sentences handed down in 2017, 622 seem to me to have been appealed to the Court of Human Rights. Six. Six decisions of that court stated that they had indeed been violated. 'Innumerable list', Mr. Latxaga. Six, one and a half million. If you read the ratio of sentences per 10,000 inhabitants or per 100,000 inhabitants, of the claims submitted to that court and of the rulings we have, it turns out that we are far below the average. Of every 10,000 inhabitants, 0.14 cases come to that court, from the Kingdom of Spain. The average (0.64) of those who arrive there and those who make resolutions recognizing the violation of human rights, that innumerable list you say, are a 0.001 of the matters that are made. Mr. Latxaga, that's not an innumerable list. I too have judicial decisions that I don't like, but that's not why I'm going to take a particular case, I'm going to make a general theory and I'm going to say that the judiciary is corrupt. Because, if we say that the judges and the courts let themselves be carried away by the economic powers or by the interests of political parties, we are saying that they are corrupt, because they are not fulfilling their obligations and are issuing resolutions that are not fair, but, in fact, they are carried away by interests that are negative, that are spurious, that go against the law. We would be saying that these judges and magistrates are corrupt. That's why we have a guaranteed penal system, not the following. Of the most guarantors in Europe. And we have a double-instance system: when a judge makes a decision that may or may not be in accordance with the law or that may not like the parties, there is usually a second or subsequent instance to which to bring that matter, so that it is different people who tell us that, in fact, it has been in accordance with the law or has not been in accordance. Even that second or third instance may be wrong. Of course I do. They're human, and they make hundreds of thousands of sentences a year. Some, logically, will be wronged. It's normal. And there will be judges who are bad. Bad judges because they have no preparation or bad judges because they have very bad baba, and they make the sentences that they want, carried by other interests that are not that of law enforcement, of course. Between 5,500, then, one has to go wrong. Or here, between 75, we are all illustrious legislators, and we are all fantastic and let ourselves be led by principles proper to natural law for all ordinary people or for all men, or here everyone comes to make his speech, as today, that come to criticize Justice simply because the interest is to ask for a judicial power of their own, which is a very logical and very permitted political aspiration within a system of law such as ours: here someone can come, criticise Justice and say that he wants a judicial power of his own, and everyone else we respect, vote for, and there will be the resolution wherever he has to go. But it has come to be said here that we need our own judicial power, because we cannot express ourselves before the courts in Basque, which is false. I haven't seen the Justice Councilwoman hit a boat and say, man, that's not true. That I know here you can start and process the procedures perfectly in Basque, and we have no problem. 80-90% of these procedures end here, and can be done in that language. But it is also true, it would be interesting, that one day the counselor tells us what is the index of procedures that, at the will of the parties, are initiated in Basque and processed entirely in Basque. Because it turns out that it is not a problem of power or not of power; it is a problem of wanting or not of wanting, whether it is the will of the parties to carry the procedure in one language or another. And that's another very different question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. In answer turn, representative of the EH Collect Group, Your word is Yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u82	Andrea Castle, I thought I'd come in in a superb costume, from the caterpillar or something, and it turns out he's got me. You have realized that I am abertzale. [[Berber]] I've been hallucinated by the intervention. Man, of course I am. Indeed... But I'm exactly the same as you're Spanish. And for that reason, exactly the same... And I respect it: you can be what you want and think as you want. But for that reason, when I want and speak of the country I want to have, I want to have the three powers. And I want to have the judiciary. And you tell me: is that asking for a judicial power of its own is not a guarantee that justice will be like this or asao But that obviously does not mean that we can simply do things differently with the claim. We will have to see what rules and what things we have to do with it. But what is clear is that, with what we have now, what is being highlighted are all the issues that we have put on the table, issues that you also recognize to happen, because you are also aware that all the things that have come out here happen. And here, coincidences in this world, for there are some, few or many. Each one presents the proposals whenever he wants and brings them to debate whenever he wants. But, obviously, what I would ask you, when you make interpretations of things, is that everything is read well. And there's a flaw that we usually have lawyers and lawyers, which is that we usually read everything but then we do one thing: we take out only the part that interests us all, to say with that what we want. I saw this very well yesterday when some of the accusations came in saying a piece of the sentence, forgetting the context. This is exactly the same. Read what we have said, how we have said it, why we have said it, and you will realize that we are doing what we are doing everywhere. One thing, Mr. Lachaga, efficient. But they all have a connection. They are all sentences, judgments, resolutions, and they have a connection in our opinion, and that is why we unite them. And therefore from this starting point, we plan what we propose. And I am very surprised that the refusal to be able to agree or agree on the issue before us as a matter of substance is a methodological issue. The truth is that I can hear all the explanations of the world, but that, for a methodological question, that this proposal does not go in its text or in its context against any methodology or anything that will be done in the other debate, absolutely nothing, goes against anything, because it is a claim, something we want to have. Well, you'll tell me that how it goes against methodology, to decide I don't know what and I don't know which... Make a claim in some terms... But that claim was made by Mr Lehendakari, if I heard her sitting at the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. I heard it there before all the magistrates, all the powers that were there: He vindicated his own judicial power. The only time I went to this legislature, at the beginning of the judicial year in the Basque Country, I heard Mr Lehendakari say this. With which, I understand you will agree with the lehendakari. I guess –likely not, I don't know – but you'll agree. So, that's what we're saying: what he said, exactly the same thing. And, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, the truth is that, look, you are clear, and you say things clearly. You said, "I don't want my own power; I already have my own power, the Spanish." Well, that's it. From there, we can discuss what we think of Justice, about the judgment, about this and about the other, but you have made it clear to me what you think, and you have told me that that is so. Now, I do want to point you out. We do not make a direct relationship in which the judiciary itself ensures that trials can be conducted in Basque and what you tell us in relation to what can already be done. That's not true. Look, you know – because you are a lawyer – that the most important issue in all court proceedings is orality, the principle of orality and the principle of immediacy, principles that are absolutely broken by a translation. When someone doesn't understand what someone's saying to him, the principles break. [[Mr Ruiz de Arbul, beckons to Mr. Ruiz de Arboulo, showing the receivers.]] I would like to give you a thousand examples that there are times when you vote badly because you have not understood what the translator has told you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u83	Please finish the field, madam.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u84	And if not, ask Mrs López de Ocariz, who recently protested for that, because they voted badly because they did not understand what the translator was saying to them. You transfer that to a trial. You move that to a trial, and you'll see the difference.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u85	Please. Thank you, madam. Please. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u86	Okay. Mrs Castelo, I must say that, for once, I share quite a bit of your speech. But it is true that it seems to me that there is one thing that is curious, that is that you criticize that the political power questions judicial judgments, when the government of Pedro Sánchez himself questioned La Manada's judgment. But, well, as I see that the subject has been quite focused, it has focused on a specific issue, which is the third point of EH Bildu's original proposal, that is, that of the judiciary itself, precisely the point on which we disagree and which we have asked for a point vote, because I am going to focus on explaining also why we disagree, starting from the fact that, as the debate has been discussed, I do not think it is abertzale or not abertzale, but rather it is where the priorities are put. I believe that, for the first time or once again, today we have agreed on much of the diagnosis of the problems of justice, at least with Mrs Goirizelaia. Obviously and effectively, there is a problem of separation of powers; there is a problem of impartiality, and there is a problem of independence. There is a subjection to the interests of the oligarchy and, of course, there is the crazy sentence of the mortgages. But, obviously, we do not agree on all the solutions: we do not agree on that third point which has focused the debate on the judiciary itself. I used to say that some always want to take the water to their mill, which is legitimate, but we, in this case, are not going to follow that path. That is why the third point, which we have already discussed in the self-government speech, as Mr Latxaga said, and that the positions are very clear in the documents that have been presented there, we will vote against it, because we believe that there is still an initiative like this. Because, as Mrs Goirizelaia has already said, for you, Mrs Goirizelaia, the same fundamental point was not to improve justice or to reach an agreement in this regard, but to focus it more on status, on territoriality, and to leave everything else in a secondary part; to leave in a secondary part the quality of justice, to leave in a secondary part the quality of democracy and the separation of powers. Because, after all, having more powers or a judicial power of their own, by itself, do not guarantee a non-patriarchal Justice, free from machist actions. In fact, we have competences in the field of justice, with which more could be done; in fact, much more could be done. Only progressive governments can ensure real progress towards equality and the eradication of sexist violence, and only progressive governments have defended and will defend the needs, demands and rights achieved by women to date and the necessary improvements for a judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u87	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u88	Well... Lagartera. What I wanted to say to you is that you, I had no doubt, the first thing that is, is abertzale, not social, not progressive, not left-wing, which always put national interests before social interests. That's what I want to tell you. I know you've understood me, but, as you and I also know perfectly well, what we do and that of taking the piece to use it in our favor we both do perfectly, nor will I give you lessons here. And it's true that I'm a lot of things. First of all, I am socialist – that is true – I am European, I am Spanish, but I am also Basque, despite who weighs, who likes to like. Besides, I've been a freer vasca for not too many years. The only thing I wanted to say to you, when you present some things and bring them to you at a time that seems interesting or timely, is that what that means is that you are an opportunist; opportunist in interests that have nothing to do with that social varnish that you tried to put in paragraph two of the initiative. Plus, another kind of interest, right, that looks great, because that's how you told us you were where you were yesterday. Well perfect, we didn't need to go, but we were able to follow him perfectly. I think we've been clear on more than one group. We know what we don't share. See if we are clear that it has not been necessary or put us in contact beforehand, because, as you well say, to waste time we are not and where they cannot find us it is better not to look for us. Therefore, do not try to join that basic agreement in that aspect that you have focused on. The only thing I have said – and I want to make it clear – is that not sharing a court's decision is very legitimate; you can not share a judge's judgment. What I'm saying is that we can't do that is, afterwards, sentence from a politician's rostrum. That is what we must not do, because it does not belong to us; other capacities belong to us. And it is likely that even the modification of the election systems of the governing bodies of the Judiciary is something that is in the hands of the Legislative Power. Just like this one, just like this one, because here we come to talk many times about things that just like that we don't talk about. That is, a little too, the problem that we sometimes have with politics, that we are wrong about the forum or the clue to which we have to go. Because I want to remind you that this speech that you make of a thick brush, of a crude speech, with regard to the lack of impartiality and independence of the judiciary, affects – and Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has told you very well – 5,500 judges who deliver justice daily in this country, and you do not exception any; everyone is impartial, everyone is dependent, everyone is under no very well what. I therefore believe that we should not, from the political fora, increase or increase what you call the delegitimization of the institutions, because that is that we ourselves will speed up a devaluation, rather than put a stop to it, a stumbling block and a possibility of modification, because it is within our capabilities. And it is true that we do not take boats in any seat or reject, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, primarily when what we hear is not true: When it is said that it is not possible to make judgments in Basque, Mrs Gorizelaia knows that the truth is missing, because she also tried with a judge who spoke in Basque, a prosecutor who spoke in Basque, lawyers who spoke in Basque and where we had the big hit is that the client, the managed, did not want the trial to take place in Basque. And against that, you can't leave either. That is something that Mrs Goirizelaia also knows, but logically we do not come here to talk about it, because everything is solved with a judicial system of its own. From there, at that moment, absolutely all the problems are over, and we will have impartiality, we will have effectiveness, we will have speed, we will have justice; we will have everything. What I told you: your proposal is very exciting, ours much safer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u90	Yes, good morning again. It is now the turn of answers, and I, above all, shall be directed to Monsieur Ruiz de Arboulo and the High Court. Ruiz de Arbulo jauna, nik uste dut, aspaldiko departs Azkeneko hilabeteotan, agerian utzi egin her, guardians a heifer bear, Botere Judiciala instantzia politicoetatik urrun ez dagoela eta halako strategy bat badagoela zelanbait Instrumentalized justicezeko; be batarako, Cosido jaunaren whatsappak nolabait hori mahai heurean jartzen du. Nik you go horrek bai urratzen duel baptism-banaketaren printzipioa, halako joko zikinak. Eta nik uste dut, when Mr Cosidó informed his wasap group that he had taken part in the negotiations to renew the judiciary, this obviously does not speak very well of the division of powers in Spain, nor does it speak very well of that political impartiality when it comes to electing members of the General Council of the judiciary. He's indicting himself, in some way, with that wasap, in that contubernium they formed to appoint the vowels. That certainly leads the Spanish justice system to contempt. In turn, magistrate Marchena resigned as president in pectore proceedings This did not, at all, merit that division of powers that you preach. You have said here that European standards, in some way, as regards both human rights and the procedural rights of the accused, and so on, that these are fully guaranteed by Spanish justice. There are also other reports which in some way reveal that independence, no, judicial, which you show. But neither does it do very well, for the prestige of the Spanish Justice, an official tweet of the People's Party, a couple of days ago, in an official account, in which it is said, with the justices in that process that is taking place right now by the Supreme Court, with a very beautiful picture of them, "if they are sitting there it is because there was a PP government." That doesn't do very well; it doesn't talk very well about the division of powers, does it? Anyone who has eyes and wants to see it, sees it. Now I'm going to address Mrs. Goirizelaia. You, in your first speech, do not know if you have betrayed the subconscious, but you have said that what you wanted is to portray the groups in this House. So, he wants to portray the PNV, seems to be, with this initiative; it's basically what he wants: he wants nothing more than that; he looks for the photo. That is, neither the division of powers, nor human rights, nor fundamental rights... You're basically looking for that, aren't you? I'm not going to argue with you, Mrs. Goirizelaia. You know that the approaches that have led to the presentation of self-government by the Basque Nationalist Party are not the maximal approaches, from the point of view of self-government, that the Basque Nationalist Party has. You know it and are aware of it perfectly. And, somehow, what we want with the bases that have been approved and with that articulated text, that we hope soon to see the light, is that somehow to engage with the Spanish Constitution itself, because we think that there is a singularity of the territories, that somehow it is protected by the Constitution itself and also it is protected by the Constitutional Court itself. In that regard, I appeal once again to leave some of the maximalisms that each one of us has and, in some way, to make an effort to reach a framework that can fit within the Constitution. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u91	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Mr Ruiz de Arboulo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Goirizelaia, I am surprised that you are surprised because I advocate because you can come here with what you think is appropriate, because you can go up to this rostrum and tell us that you want your own judicial power, that you want an independent state. Look, I've been in politics for a relatively few years, a few, but I've always defended that and my colleagues, who have been in politics longer, have always defended this: the freedoms of all citizens, that you can say what you think. Just as many judges, prosecutors and magistrates who left their lives in it defended him. And at that time, you weren't on the same side; no, you weren't. When we defended freedom, the power to express yourself, you did not defend the same. That's what's changed. I have not changed; you have changed, Mrs Goirizelaia, which is very different, it is very different. We've been on very different sides. Mr Latxaga, you talk to me about tweets, you talk to me about wasaps; I talk to you about the statistics of the General Council of the Judiciary. By the way, don't confuse the General Council of the Judiciary with judicial power, which are different things, and so it has done in the rostrum, I don't know whether by mistake or by the speed of this time that constrains us. They're very different things. I've talked to you about court statistics, concrete data, and you're talking to me about tweets. Yes, of course, of course, there are tweets that say those gentlemen should not be there or that these gentlemen are there. Everyone has their opinion, and in this system and in this country we can defend it freely. See if we can freely defend our positions that the other day the lehendakari himself said that, after hearing the previous issues in the trial that began at this hearing, in case someone has not learned that there has been a hearing that began this week in the Supreme Court, where a number of former charges of the Generalitat and the Parliament of Catalonia are being tried for the possible commission of a series of crimes..., the lehendakari, when he saw how they had been... Speeches from previous issues raised by defence counsel, he said that the trial would have to end there. That is a political position that we all allow, that we understand we have the right to do, but legally it is a distinct barbarity. Because it is a kick to our nineteenth Criminal Prosecution Act, because, after hearing the defence parties, who have raised a number of previous questions, we will have to hear the prosecution, who has something to say. We can't finish that trial there. And that trial, so that it is correct, so that it is complete and so that the Human Rights Tribunal does not have to make a reservation on the rights of the parties to the proceedings, has to have a practice of proof and will end in a judgment. It may be a desideratum to say that, but that may be, in some way, trying to influence the freedom of the seven judges, seven magistrates, who are part of this court and who have to decide how the procedure ends. Mr Martínez, you represent, from my point of view, an anti-system party and, logically, you have to come and rise to the rostrum and, without any kind of argument, without any kind of data, make a criticism of the actions of 5,500 judges, judges or judges of court, hearing or specialized courts. It does not seem right to me, I told you in the first intervention, and I see that you have not changed. For me, I insist, it represents an anti-system party, for others, it can be very useful for certain negotiations. For me, I'm sorry, no, because we don't share your position. In the first round, it has not given me time to explain my group's position on the last of the amendments, which is the one tabled by the Government groups, and no, no, I'm sorry, I cannot vote in favour of it, because I have asked, in that first round, to explain exactly what it says. Because we all advocate a system of separation of powers, a system of independent judges, which guarantees the rights of citizens. But what neither of the two groups wanted to get wet and wanted to tell us, neither of the two groups that have signed or initialled that amendment has said what that system is. Is that the one we have? Is that the system we have? Do you defend the system we have, Mr. Latxaga? I asked him. He didn't answer that. And, as you have not answered me and your speech seems to me to be going somewhere else, the Lehendakari's speech the other day is going somewhere else, certain actions of your group, of your party, in this very House, I think they are going somewhere else, I think I cannot join in the vote on that proposal, because it seems to me that you did not want to get wet. He has not told us what he really thinks, whether that independent system with separation of powers and which guarantees the rights of citizens is what we have – with which I do agree – or is another one that wants to create you you do not know when, where, under what conditions and in what way. That is why my group will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. (stopping) I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Yes, dots?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u94	Yes, I'm sorry, because I've forgotten to tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u95	Dots?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u96	...we've been asked to vote on points and we agree. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u97	Bear wave. How do you want to vote? One and two? ... on the other hand, okay. Okay. Well, we'll vote for points number one and two. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u98	So, points 1 and 2 have not been accepted. Next, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters 18; the opponents are 57; the whites are 0,0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u99	So the third point is not accepted. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 5th, 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u100	So, it's not supposed to be a full-correction of Podemos together. Next, Eucabertians and Basque Socialists vote the whole correction of the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] Please, we're in the vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 37; whites, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u101	So, because it's a trap, we're going to vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 38; white, 0; abstinence, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u102	So, it's not allowed to be the Euko patriots and the Basque Socialists to rectify the whole group. I interrupt the entire meeting here until 15:45. It was two o'clock in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-five.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u103	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting again. The seventh point on the theme list: "To collect the proposition as to the parliamentary teams, concerning the study and opposition of the unsubstantial addictions. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team, Mrs. Eva Blanco, representing the EH Union team, has the word in his own hand. appreciative and self-defense.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u104	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, everyone. Opinions, drug dependencies, legal drugs, illegal drugs... When we express these terms in words, we who are here are evidently present in the presence of dangerous substances. On the other hand, when we express the binite, the online games, or the sports-bags, it is not the same thing. Unfortunately, we have not penetrated as a society, or are not conscious that we are present with unsubstantial attentions. And certain actions, which are repeated in succession, are as dangerous as those of substances. There is no doubt a new issue. Society is changing, and in front of it, the implication of different institutions, of all groups, and of the whole society is necessary. All the members of the legislature have expressed all our anxiety for new addictions. We won't question that. Hence it is very important that we agree in a wide manner to the measures necessary to prevent this new reality, and, thank God, this is what we have accomplished. We're worried about addictions. All of them. All substances that cause dependence. But, above all, we are concerned about those who today go unnoticed, those who are not demonized or stigmatized, those who are perceived as one more way of socializing. And that's what happens, nowadays, with sports betting, with online gambling, with betting parlors... We have few tools to deal with these new addictions. We don't have as much information as we'd like; we don't have concrete data on the profiles of people who are getting sick... He's getting sick, yeah. Being a ludopath makes you a chronic sick person, because they are rehabilitated but not cured. On more than one occasion we have said that we are facing a real public health problem. And that is, in a way, what we have come to correct by this non-law proposition. In order to give some facts, we may say that there are EAE.245 gaming rooms, 48 betals, 16 tours and two casinos. Perhaps some one may think that there are few, but the real problem is this: EAE is a remarkable number of gambling houses and local gamblers. They're multiplying like mushrooms. And the establishment of these locals is regulated by law, but this law is late, and our cities and villages are not to be moved; Bilbo, for example, there are eight bets where they should be legally two. Mr. Mayor of Gastei has handed him a request that he should reduce those locals, and, if it opens, to stay away from the schools. I'll highlight other data: 29% of the young up to 12 and 22 have ever been in bets, and from 10, one of the years played regularly for the last year, and from three, one wagers. These records are removed from the Incs of Deus University. In other words, like González de Audikan when he introduced this inquest, among these young men, seven% have played on the Internet, more than ten times over. It looks like a small cipher, but that means that in every class there's a ludopata child or something. In every classroom, a ludopathy baby, a chronic patient. Dreadful! Dreadful! It is therefore necessary, as has been said, to place the focus on the young ones. And what are the principal reasons why ludopathy should fall into dependence, as well as others? That the access is very simple, they think they can get it back. They set up a trap for the first online bet-that is to say, for the first bet they give them money. The publicity used to fall into these observations, and the idols that appear, are very attractive. Different problems, as we said, but if we really want to deal with these new addictions, we will have to analyse the different problems. And it will have to be involved, from different areas of action as well. And some of these problems are solved more easily than others. For example, the lack of control, in terms of access, of minors to gambling houses or playrooms, is solved, among other things, with greater control. Because minors enter this type of premises, sometimes too easily. Thanks to a study carried out by the OCU with two minors in six different cities, we have known that Bilbao is one of the most permissive cities in controlling access to minors. These two young people who participated in this project tried to bet on six locations in Bilbao; they got it in three: in half. And we have said this on more than one occasion, EH Bildu is in favour of making a policy of addictions based on prevention, on reducing risks and damage, on limitations, and not on prohibitions; but, in this case, not. Here, an inspection and sanction is necessary. And this, as I said, has easier solution than other topics. We must act firmly, because the more accessible the game is and the more exposed the person is, the greater the risk of developing an addiction. Therefore, as we said, in this case, yes: control, inspection and sanction. It's a different story about publicity. That's not so easily controlled, though in Belgium, for instance, it's more advanced than we are. They're the ones who've forbidden the online bets while there's sports requirements. In Belgium and in Italy, publicity for goodlines on television is prohibited until eight o'clock in the afternoon. Also, in advertising and advertisements to spread online games and casinos or bets, there can be no sportsmen or famous people. We understand that we still have a long way to reach those policies which Belgium or Italy have established. We have a long way to finish the effects of these new attentions and the damages. It's time for direct measurements, but for the right policy. Trusted data is required. The knowledge of all necessary information in the minds of non-substance, is necessary. With this intention, among other things, this other proposition of the law which we presented, because we believe that it is very important to make a study in this area. A study to pick up parties. It would be interesting to know how many gambling houses or gambling rooms are there, and what is the perfection of people, their age, and their social condition. And this point is very important, in our opinion, because it is proved that the phenomenon of the game, especially to the people of the work-class, affects young men with stripes. These considerations are often used to escape from a wretched condition, which is unfortunately due to ludopathies and preventives. On the other hand, it is necessary that we should make much pedagogy for ourselves. In order to be aware of the dangers of unsubstantial listening, especially in the sphere of education. As I said at first, we people have no knowledge of these new observations. In fact, there are still bets and problems that bring back these games. It's true we've got some tools to deal with the reality we've shown here. Incestak, VII. Act of addiction Plan and 2016 Adelections and the Law of Integration over the Western Drugs. In this law there are some interesting articles about this subject; but, as we have insisted on, this law has not been developed. It's still undeveloped by a law agreed on in 2016. So we have a lot of resources, but we have to use them properly. On the other side and towards the end, I will show above the correction of the medium which we have signed. It's an agreement signed with the teams that support the government, because PPk and Podemos have introduced the codes that support the government. We believe that in this agreement all of us are involved in the points which we requested, and, as we said at first, it is very important in this matter, more than ever, to obtain a large harmony. I am not going to read it, because it is a six-point compromise amendment that they have on the seat, but it is true that we are going to focus on the most important points. One of them was that study that we asked, especially to have that map of premises and terminal maps with reliability, to know the profile, to know the profile, of the users of such premises, to know their age, to know their socio-economic conditions, to know also an analysis of the impact of these new addictions and, moreover, to focus, as we said, on the groups that are in a situation of exclusion or at risk of being able to be so and on the minors, which is what we are most concerned about in this case. In addition, a point has been added that Elkarrekin Podemos requested, which was an analysis of the tax situation of the game. And all of this, once this diagnosis has been made, will be taken to the Technical Advisory Board of Gambling and the Basque Board of Addictions, where the necessary contributions can be made. Once these steps are followed, a plan will be implemented on the basis of this diagnosis, which will help us to reverse the situation that we currently have, not forgetting the awareness campaigns, as I said, with special attention to schools, schools, universities and also developing, which is another of the issues we asked, the comprehensive law of addictions. We're grateful for everyone's behavior. As I said, we got a large deal of harmony, which was very important to us. The agreement here is very important. The decisions you make in this room and the decisions you make are inevitable to face the new understandings, as they are indispensable to us in our streets. It's a good thing the mutations of the Basque Country, driven by young men, are even more advanced in this case than the institutions. These movements will also help us. Finishing this century lock. That's all. Again, thank you all and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u106	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor, councillor. Well, we're looking at an initiative on a study on analysis – and prevention above all – of substance-free addictions... Well, we already regulate that in the law to which Mrs Blanco has referred and, of course, some issues need to be developed, right? And in that regard, we will vote in favour of the compromise amendment. We also include a partial amendment, an addition amendment, and, in some way – not to our full satisfaction – has been collected and, well, we understand that the important thing will be that this study, that analysis, that it is important to do so, and that it is pending in this country many years ago, many... There was also a white book on the game, there was talk about it... Then, indeed, time has passed and we have regulated, legislated, in certain ways; but, well, I believe that, at this time, where the incidence, by many types of factors, of new game formulas and new formulas of substanceless addictions, or of new forms of addictions, prevails or is present in our society, it is good that it be analysed and that, indeed, a study on that issue of gambling in Euskadi and its incidence has to be positive. And there are experts, too, to do so. We are in a country where, in that sense, there are people who can be trusted to make a good analysis of the situation: the game and its multiple expressions or the game linked to those addictions without substance or new addictions; the game through the electronic, through the sports excuse, of chance, etc. And its accommodation, moreover, which is the fundamental thing and which, therefore, I believe we are drawing attention, in this initiative, to the most vulnerable fringes of society, the age-sensitive fringes or the vulnerable fringes of society because of the socio-economic situation, which we also know affects. We, in what is the analysis of the compromise amendment that the proponent and the groups that support the government have signed... Well, that's fine; that is, I say again that our addiction amendment has somehow been taken up, to which I will refer at a moment's notice, but there is one thing I think is a little bit left. I don't know... It had to be put in: "Analysis of tax regulations." I do not know; I do not know very well what analysis to make in relation to taxation, in relation to this issue. Tax is a factor that has no impact on what has to be seen, on the impact of gambling, addictions and substances on society, on youth... But on the tax side, then... First, that this House on tax matters can demand the minimum. We understand that some question could be seen in an analysis, but we do not understand the tax factor in the practice of gambling as an element of analysis here. We don't understand that. But, well... Indeed, you have chosen to insert that aspect, that factor... There in the studio, but, well, I don't know. You all have groups on the general boards, and the best thing is, when the real analysis is done... What I am asking for is a rigorous analysis of the game, of those addictions and how it can be treated from the public health of the Department of Health, or from the instances to which the Basque Government corresponds, say it, do it and move it. If there is any reference to changing tax legislation, after such a sectoral analysis as this, then it is sent to the general boards, and there or outside governments or parliamentary groups apply some kind of tax measure, which I do not know what has to do with public health prevention issues. Actually, I don't understand, but good. You have included that issue, but well, as a distorting factor, I suppose to add wills. But I want to say that sometimes things have to be done with a little more rigour in relation to this issue, that we have to talk about what we have to talk about: here we have to talk about education, we have to talk about health information, we have to talk about public health programmes, leisure alternatives, prevention policies... That's what we need to talk about; but, of tax regulations, the truth is, we don't understand him very well. We are tabling an amendment to add. We were basically in agreement with what Mrs Blanco was proposing, and it was an additional amendment because there was reason to introduce it, right? That is, if we are talking about the development of the law of addictions, if we are talking about the incidence of new addictions or addictions and substances, in any case, in our society, and we have an Advisory Board of Addictions, where there are a lot of expert people, a lot of experienced people, a lot that treats people who fall into addictions, or a lot of people that treats in education or that many people that develop a lot of information for prevention or education, because we understood that, well, we are working on that analysis, on that report... but that the Addiction Advisory Council had been convened to deal with that issue. It's relevant enough, isn't it? In addition, it is in the development of the Addictions Act itself that the Addictions Advisory Council is called upon to advise us all, parliamentary groups, the Government and to address important issues. But it seems that that has been postponed, it has been done at a later time. We called for "the Basque Parliament to urge the Department of Health of the Basque Government to, on a prior basis – i.e., on the pre-report basis; we could be able to negotiate whether it could be prior to or simultaneously, but... – to convene the Advisory Board of Addictions and organize a monographic session of it, in relation to substance-free addictions, in order to receive what?................................................................................ –for that, because there are experts – the contributions and reports of its members belonging to so many associations, institutions and organizations involved in the prevention, control, assistance and treatment of addictions", drug addictions... We have known them for a long time, and we know of their competence. In that sense, we would have liked to have, on a par or on a previous basis – that issue seems to be different – first, to make the report and send it to the council, so that... We would have preferred to have heard, first hand, all those issues that the experts should have contributed. It is quite clear that I assume that the Government will have to do that with one or the other matter. People who are called to the Basque Addiction Advisory Council will be called to participate. But, in any case, and in favour of the agreement, we will vote in favour of the initiative. We understand that it is very positive to make an analysis of the game and its impact, especially in those most vulnerable segments of society, as I have said, by age or socio-economic situation, in which the bad practice of the game has a negative impact. We do not want, however, that in what is the report or in the conclusions of the report there are closing attitudes or to close everything, or to ban everything or to prevent hobbies that can have a normal channel of expression, with moderation and that are also linked to interesting factors such as sport, leisure time... We do not want, therefore, an analysis and closing conclusions – I say again – and prohibitionists. We want the report to have constructive conclusions, intelligent solutions. That's why I was talking about the Addiction Advisory Council. There are people who can contribute in an essential way, well, and let us hope that they will do so at some point in the drafting phase of this report. And we need that study, indeed, for a deficit in the development of the addiction law, which we hope can be compensated for by actions like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u107	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u108	Thank you, ma'am. And good evening to you all. It is up to us today to discuss an initiative on the study and prevention of addictions and substances. We are therefore talking again in this House about a phenomenon, that of gambling and sports betting, which, from our parliamentary group, we have denounced on many occasions, an issue of concern to citizens and which is increasingly affecting young people and adolescents in the Basque Country. It is evident the disproportionate growth in recent times of physical spaces to bet and online platforms, both sports betting and gambling, such as poker or bingo, to name a few, which until now required moving to some room or casino. Gure cuts kezkatuta bear dago Azkenaldian Euskadin ematen ari den kirol-apustuen ettenbeko hazkundearekin. Ten years ago, no one knew anything about them, they did not exist; but, at this time, they have expanded with harmless appearance throughout the Euskadi. The streets and neighborhoods of our municipalities have been filled with gambling houses and playrooms all over the place. From Elkarrekin We can, in previous interventions, put on the table data that we count on today, data that are scarce. We are seeing how in recent years there has been a marked increase in the number of betting parlors and, with this, the number of people with problems with ludopathy in Euskadi, which already stands at 43,000 people and which increases, especially, among young people aged 18 to 25. The data indicate that betting is the second case of ludopathy, behind slot machines, and that the rates of this addiction among children under 25 have increased from 6 to 25 % in the last four years. Historically, it is observed that in times of economic crisis the game grows and the bets increase. The reason is simple: difficulties fuel illusions, and the game produces expectations of success. It has its logic. Desperation, economic distress, lack of a positive perspective... They produce an effect of searching for quick results, of strokes of luck, to abandon difficult situations, of finding something to believe in when you lose confidence in yourself. And psychologists and sociologists say: the most vulnerable sectors cling to their beliefs and to stubborn and unfounded hopes. It brings together the need to do something, of money, the belief that they can earn it by, for example, taking advantage of their knowledge in a specific sport and that companies give up amounts to start playing or hooking up, the so-called "bones", as if it were free drugs, until addiction is generated. It facilitates the game by being able to bet in the salons or through the mobile, something that turns out, clearly, much more addictive, even, than the face-to-face game itself. The result of the game is to make ludopaths and, then, this addiction, which has existed in an invisible way, becomes a serious social problem. The different associations of people affected by gambling or in the process of rehabilitation have long been doing a very important job, not only of assistance and advice, but of working with people and families affected by ludopathy. They have been showing the way our institutions must follow, to ensure the public health of citizens in terms of gambling and gambling addiction. And they're doing what governments aren't doing. The truth is that we are facing a serious social problem, and they have already begun to mobilize, convening and carrying out protests in the neighbourhoods and municipalities of Euskadi, both youth groups and associations of neighbors and various social actors. Moreover, it is very symptomatic that the places where they grow the most are humble neighborhoods with low purchasing power. The lounges extend across virtually every neighborhood; many of the guests enter their potting, breakfast route, without attending the local machines. Going to a playroom no longer just involves playing. There is a conversion, facilitated by law; it has been done without measuring the consequences that can have for the ludopaths. It is a more playful aspect, which people access as if it were a bar and, therefore, we have a more normalized image. The business is served and, from collectives and associations such as Ekintza Bibe and Asaxer, they report that young children between 18 and 25 have already arrived, with problems of addiction in sports betting, as well as many parents of minors, to ask for help when finding different tickets in their children's clothes. For Elkarrekin Podemos, the situation is serious and it is necessary to take action and address, from the institutions, measures, plans and campaigns that mitigate the negative impact of the game, bets and its negative consequences, especially with regard to the protection of the most vulnerable groups, such as boys, girls and young people. However, we must be aware that, in order to rigorously assess the situation, we need up-to-date data, which will provide us with a detailed and comprehensive picture of the increase and growth of the gambling phenomenon and of the bets in Euskadi. Given the lack of concrete studies and an analysis that gives us a real picture of the current situation of the game and sports betting and of the number of people affected by the negative consequences that result from their practice in Euskadi, the opposition parties, including Elkarrekin Podemos, request the creation of an observatory of the game, as one of the first steps to take, to carry out periodic surveys and studies, to give us a starting point on which to work to address this problem. Once the Basque Government has started the process of establishing it, this initiative seeks – as Mrs Blanco has explained – to set up this body, the Observatory of the Game, so that it can function and enable tools, to deal with this phenomenon and to draw up a multidisciplinary study and analysis, which will provide us with a diagnosis of the current situation, with the participation of the different social groups and agents, and, with the conclusions of the same, to draw up an action plan, with social, health, educational and fiscal measures – fiscal as well – that will facilitate the prevention and care of the negative consequences of the game and sports betting. In any case, for Elkarrekin Podemos, the Game Observatory is only the first of the measures to be taken to address the situation of the game in Euskadi. There is much work to be done, starting from interdepartmental coordination and at all administrative levels, in collaboration with associations and affected groups. From the institutions, we have to live up to and update the legal framework to the new times and to the realities that we face. This goes unquestionably by developing, within the shortest possible time, the Law of Integral Care and Drug Dependencies in its entirety, adapting it – and this is the important thing – to the new scenarios, to give answers to the new formulas and ways of betting, which we face. In addition, effective awareness-raising campaigns and accessible information on the risks that addictions and substances may cause should be launched. Education in educational establishments and universities seems to us to be a fundamental issue. In conclusion, I would like to thank the representatives of the rest of the party for their efforts. For though the differences between us during the morning are manifest, yet we are able to agree. Yes, we would like to mention issues of prevention of advertising and promotion of online betting portals and sports betting and companies. Its presence in the Basque public media must be limited. The Basque Government should also commit itself to ensuring that, in events and events that are financed by public money, these companies are not listed as sponsors. And, as some other representative has rightly said, we have a long way to go on this issue and a lot of work to do, with regard to advertising. We defend the rights of the most vulnerable people by falling into the negative consequences of gambling, through the prevention and implementation of measures of control and sensitivity of society, promoting a responsible gambling model, in the face of the economic interests of some companies in the sector for profit and profit, regardless of the harmful consequences of irresponsible use. For all that we have said, we are tabling an additional amendment, and we are going to vote in favour of the compromise amendment, because we believe that consensus on this issue is very important, because we believe that it was also only a matter of political will. I would like to thank the other representatives of the other groups with whom I have worked the initiative, and I would like to say to them that I believe that this is the beginning of a long way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u110	Thank you, President and good afternoon. The truth is that there is little left to add to what those who have spoken before me have already said. Moreover, this debate, more or less in similar terms, has already started last November, and it is true – we must all recognise – that it is an issue of concern to all. The subject of addictions has changed a lot in recent times, and today it is true that there is basically talk of substanceless addictions. We must work in politics, we must work in schools, and of course we must also work in families, because this also responds to new behaviours among the youngest people in society. I believe that all the political forces in this House share this concern; as I say, it is also a citizen concern that we were able to discuss last November. In that initiative, which was also presented by Mrs Blanco, it was recognized that, although there is a way to go, as the spokesman for Elkarrekin Podemos proposed, it is true that many things have already been done in Euskadi. We have a law, which is the law that was passed in 2016, and we have the 7th Addiction Plan. But it is true that we must and must continue to make progress on this matter. I believe that we all recognize the impact of this issue on society; we recognize the importance of prevention policy and the establishment of measures to try to put an end to this situation, and, of course, we recognize the role of the public authorities, which cannot be left out of the solutions. Together with the law and plan, on 16 October 18, the decree was adopted, approving the construction of the observatory to which we refer in an important way in the compromise amendment that we are all going to vote unanimously. Today, at noon, we have learned that the Government has announced that it is setting up this observatory to take measures to prevent and control responsible gambling, and it also has three clear objectives: one is information, the other is research and the other is dissemination. Therefore, after reading the amendment that we have all signed and that we are also going to vote on, and after reading what the Government has been able to announce today, as far as this is concerned, I believe that the compromise amendment covers each and every one of the points that the Government intends to develop. It's a matter of concern to all of us. Many times we share the bottom, but we find it difficult to get to the shapes. But, on this occasion, we have been able to capture, through this amendment, the concerns and requests that the various parliamentary groups had put forward through our amendments. Some of them were whole and others, such as Elkarrekin Podemos, who proposed an amendment of addition. Therefore, I think there is little more to add. Addictions without substance must be recognized as one of the scourges of the twenty-first century. Things are changing, and indeed our young people have access to a kind of game, which can end up in addictions, which we didn't even think about a few years ago. I therefore share, as the spokesman for Podemos ended, that there is a long way to go; but probably because, on this subject, I do not say that we are at the beginning, but, indeed, it is an almost new concern in politics and society. And I am sure, seeing the agreement reached, that from now on all political groups will work towards that necessary consensus. And, indeed, that observatory, announced today by the Government, will meet those objectives, in order to make this scourge smaller every day. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u111	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Othello, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good evenings. Well, we are debating today, again, in relation to the behavioral addictions associated with the game, this issue that we have already had the opportunity to discuss, as Mrs Red has said, in the plenary session of last 15 November. The proposal proposed at that moment belonged to a definite subject, to a definite measure. The proposal to-day is more extensive, concerning the inquiry and prevention of the unsubstantial remarks. This proposal to our team seems appropriate to us. We have already made this clear, and we have defended it in the speech made in that plenary, from the conviction that, in order to make real and efficient progress in addressing the challenge posed by the new forms of play, we need to have a detailed analysis of them, so that, with greater and better knowledge, concrete measures or actions can be taken, aimed at reducing the risks associated with inappropriate use of play, and at raising awareness and raising awareness on this issue. Because, no doubt, the rise of new technologies has implied a radical change in gambling practices: adibidez, mugikorraren edo ordinagaviluaren ebilerak errazago eta azkarrago egiten du online jokoetarako sarbidea eta edozein motatako apustuk egitea. The possibility of almost universal access to the game by remote interactive means has introduced us a new vision of the impact that the activity of the game has among people, because of the greater accessibility to the game and therefore poses a greater risk of addiction. Being, as it seems, inevitable this way of leisure, it is essential to know how to play and bet responsibly, in order to avoid falling into an addiction problem, which can harm both the life of the person who plays and the people in their environment. There is no doubt about the risk of the game causing an addiction. We are seeing how the proliferation of gambling, combined with sport, is generating a significant increase in sports betting. And this despite the fact that the 2017 Euskadi Addiction Survey places lotteries and quinielas, by contrast, as the type of game that most often takes place, followed, at a certain distance still, by sports betting, although it is true that the latter, in the last five years, are experiencing an increase. The fact that gambling is combined and random makes young people not perceived as a risky practice, which can become dangerous. Are gehiago, adikzio-arazoak dituzten jokalarien profila aldatzen ari da, eta gaur egun gatte gehiagori eragiten die. Therefore, this is where the focus must be, without doubt, and the Basque Government is clearly aware of this. We have already spoken here, but well, we reiterate because it is important: we have a law of comprehensive care of addictions and drug addictions, a new plan of addictions, we have a good regulation, a good specific regulation of play – very detailed –, which is also referred to by the law of addictions, as far as the game is concerned. Therefore, I will not repeat all that I have also commented or indicated in my previous speech. There is no doubt that we have for a long time had rules and instruments to act and intervene in the field of behavioural addictions such as gambling, which leaves very clear the concern and involvement of the Government with this issue. It is true, however, that new realities, new problems, which need to be addressed, are emerging. A reality that requires steps aimed at finding alternatives, to address them from different areas, such as prevention, awareness, information, control, etc. In this sense, we fully agree with the need for concrete analysis of the situation of the game in Basque. It is necessary to have a diagnosis of reality; to have sufficient information about this complex phenomenon, which serves as a basis for the implementation of specific measures. Because, in short, a precise diagnosis of the problem will be basic to take the most appropriate measures possible. This has to be the way, and that's how we kept it in its time and we defend it now. As we said and reiterated, this reality has to be addressed by global analysis and end in particular. For this reason, the amendment of the whole proposed by our group, together with the Socialist Group, to the initiative we are debating today is the same as that of 15 November, an amendment which also went ahead and urged the Government to draw up a study on the situation of the game, from which to draw up an action plan. And we also propose that this study be carried out through the recently created Basque Game Observatory, and that, precisely, it is aimed at the study and permanent analysis of the game in Euskadi, an organ also proposed from the transversality between departments of the Basque Government, with experts in thematic areas related to the game or complementary to it. Therefore, we believe that the Basque Observatory of Gambling is the right vehicle to carry out this study. This approach is consistent with the steps being taken by the Government itself, aware of the need to be constantly attentive and attentive to the evolution of the game, for which it has created an observatory for this purpose. Therefore, and it has also been commented – Mrs Red has already commented – that, incidentally, today, the first meeting of this Basque Observatory of Gambling has been held, with which it is formally constituted, right? And, in this line, we believe that it is logical to channel, through it, this situation analysis that all groups see so necessary, right?, and that a plan of action should be addressed to the bodies involved in the field of gambling and addictions in Euskadi, and based on the conclusions of this study. Well, it has become clear, very clear, in all the speeches before me, that it is a matter that is clear to us that we are concerned about all the groups, and, despite our differences, we have managed to reach a consensus, an agreement, which, moreover, is a text that complements that which was already adopted on 15 November – to which I have already referred – by incorporating new issues, which I will not repeat because they have already been explained here; I will not go further on this issue, but, of course, they are questions that give important added value to it. So I end by thanking the groups for their willingness to reach such an important agreement on an issue, on which we see that we all have an important concern and, of course, that we have to move forward, and better if it is from the unanimous consensus, as will be the one here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u113	Thank you, Miss Otalora. The answer shift, okay? Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u114	Yes, thank you, ma'am. With your permission, from your seat, to explain only two shades: The first: both Mrs Red and Mrs Otalora have announced to us today the constitution of this Basque observatory of game, we believe that by a wonderful alignment of the stars or wonderful chance, just the day that today we have brought the proposal not of law to plenary. But, still, he appreciates it. It is a satisfaction that this observatory is created, because that will help us to have what we are approving here today done well before. And just to tell Mr. Barrio that it is true that the importance he attached to the Basque Addiction Council to us had eluded us in that non-law proposal. It seemed appropriate to us, and indeed it is true that this meeting will now be proposed, once the analysis has been made. It must be borne in mind that there are people, as you have said, who are expert and who know this area very well, and who can make some interesting contributions. But, initially, it was intended to do so before that analysis, and now it is proposed to do so before that action plan, with the analysis in hand. So, we also think it's good that the Council has...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u115	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u116	Thank you. We also believe that the Council is good that it has all that information, so that it can make contributions in a much more solvent way. In any case, I would like to thank all the groups once again for their unanimity on this point. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Euskal Talde Popularra. Anybody else want to talk? Yes... Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u118	I'll give you a little pointer, Mrs. Blanco. There has been, fortunately, a confluence of the stars, because casually the call of the game observatory was made prior to the agenda of this plenary. There's been a confluence of stars... Well, look, it just happened. No more. A clarification, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u119	Thank you, Miss Otalora. Now that we've finished arguing, we'll vote for EH Collectors, the Middle Amendment signed by Eukal Sozialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u120	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. The eighth point in the subject list: "The other proposition of Podemos as a parlamentary group, the proper number of families of the Colleges of Osa, pediats, and nurses. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr. Uria, representing the Podemos group, has the word to run and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u121	Mrs. Tejeria, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u122	Please, please, silence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u123	Councillors, Councillor Jon Darpón, fellow Members of Parliament. We are proposing – briefly, because there is an agreement of all groups in the non-legislative proposal that I am going to present – a reflection and a concern about the situation of primary care in Osakidetza, right now. I would explicitly like to thank Mr Lehendakari and the Health Adviser Jon Darpón for their presence at this very important afternoon, on this subject. To thank parliamentary colleagues Laura Garrido, Eva Blanco and Natalia Rojo, and parliamentary colleague Jon Aiartza, for their collaboration in bringing forward an agreement on this critical situation in which we are in. Achieving the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being. Universal health coverage means that all people, including marginalized and vulnerable people, must have access to health services that are of good quality, are focused on people's needs and have no financial difficulties. Primary health care is the most efficient, effective and equitable approach to improving health, making it an essential element in any health system. Primary care is therefore the essential health care in any health system. Well, since the beginning of the social and economic crisis in 2008, the average budget devoted to primary care in our country, which, as you know, has 3.8 billion budget – the Department of Health – has fallen by more than five points, from 19% to 14.7 % today, about, although we do not know exactly, because you know like me that the figures of the budgets are not broken down by the levels of care. Investment and current spending on specialized hospital care, however, has increased. In addition, people's investments and spending – from people's pockets – have increased in the private sector throughout the crisis, in relation to the investment and spending that the public sector has made. Did anyone think this situation wasn't going to have any consequences? Today, social and professional demands are multiplying. Not only are there strikes or mobilizations or divisions between professionals and primary health care leaders in Andalusia, Catalonia, Burgos, Galicia, but already more than 600 Basque professionals have called a strike, in the Osakidetza health centres, for 15 March, 12 April and 17 May, and have opened a negotiating process. Since the birth of the Lehen Arreta Arnasberritzen platform at the end of 2017, supported by organizations such as Osatzen-Society in Family and Community Medicine of the Basque Country and Osalde-Association for the Right to Health, among others, we knew that our doctors and nursing professionals were already tired – and not a few platforms and neighbourhood associations –, tired of increasing workloads, for lack of substitutions; tired of precarious and disincentives contracts, sometimes hours; tired of the decrease in time per patient, which altered the quality of care; tired of waiting lists for patients to access the consultation of family doctors and nursing professionals, and, finally, tired of the lack, it seems that in the market, of pediatricians and other professionals who altered the proper substitutions, by the retirement processes. These are the consequences of not making decisions on time. In addition to the meetings, assemblies and strikes of professionals of Osakidetza, convened this week and next, motions are currently being presented – or have already been presented – in various municipalities of Euskadi: in Bilbao, in Leioa, in Getxo, in Durango, etc. Finally, after six years of management, the Osakidetza Advisory Council on Primary Care has been established, a matter that we welcome. Finally, after six years of management of the current leaders of the Department of Health, a document entitled Strategy for Primary Health Care has been prepared. We really need real diagnoses of the situation, adequate resource planning and a plan to deploy new recruitments of professionals to health centres, according to health needs and inequalities identified in the care processes. Pending a more adjusted negotiated estimate, there are authorized proposals that consider that more than 100 professionals in the three territories of different profiles (family doctors, pediatricians, nursing professionals, physiotherapists, etc.) should be hired, at least during this parliamentary period, with contracts of at least three years in both vacant positions and in replacement exchanges. We consider it a priority of the General Directorate of Osakidetza to scale up the staff of health centres, as a matter of urgency, to recover the quality of care, at least 10 minutes per patient, to reduce professional workloads, to eliminate waiting lists, not more than 48 hours in primary care, and to allow working time spaces that allow – worth redundancy – the organization of community activities in the health centre, in schools, in workplaces and in homes, research in primary care, and health promotion and disease prevention activities. It is also essential to encourage employment contracts and their routes to attract professionals, preventing them from going abroad in order to be able to work in decent conditions or to integrate into other services that are not of priority for the entire health system. Mr. Counselor has been late on this primary care thing. He already knows. No doubt he had other priorities... The problem is how long other priorities will try to cut the measures already envisaged in the Euskadi Strategy for Primary Care document We know that an Osakidetza is developing more expensive – that it eats everything; increase the budget, it eats all Osakidetza, 2,270 billion – less sustainable and less equitable. We propose to you, we ask you, we ask you... which prioritizes public health and primary care, for the benefit of the people, for making a health service more equitable, more sustainable and more effective. People, they're getting tired, too. Family doctors have reasons for the strike. They can't do it anymore: they've already said it in several headlines and they're going to go out on the street. Here the only one that is at ease is the private sector and those who collaborate, directly or indirectly, with the decapitalization of primary health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u124	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll try to be short, because the subject is already agreed. It is grateful to the President, and also to the health, as Mr. HélèneUria has mentioned, to be present in this important debate. And also because of the agreement we have been happy about, and that in the end an extensive consent has been possible, and because Mr. Uria has made special efforts, and then the rest of us have been present. Well, we can say first-class attention about the entrance to the sanitary system, too, that it's important. It's true he has special challenges nowadays, if we look to the future. Primary care is the gateway to the health system. In this regard, it is an essential level of care and said that, at present, in addition, primary care has to face new challenges. New challenges have to do with the ageing of the population, with attention to chronic diseases, chronicity, multipathological diseases, and the important role it plays in the field of health prevention and promotion. This forces us to push for changes in the organizational and management model of primary care, as we have set up so far. From that nail, you need to get your first attention together, and for that, Eukok, health department in this case, it's necessary to drive precise measurements. There is therefore a need to enhance and strengthen primary care resources. When we talk about strengthening these resources, we talk about human resources, about professionals – to which I am going to refer now also briefly – and about economic resources, appropriate care devices, and above all, about devices such as health centres and clinics. No one escapes the resolutive capacity of primary care in the diagnosis, treatment and referral of patients to other professionals, to other health circuits, and how primary care professionals have become genuine reference professionals and reference people for the users and patients we go to primary care. That is why primary care, moreover, is said to be a genuine preventive and active role also, closely linked to that resolutive capacity to which it referred. When we talk about strengthening the primary care model, we talk about some issues, which I believe, which must be pointed out and highlighted expressly, such as coordination, such as the replacement of professionals, which is an issue that we referred to in our amendment to this initiative, the issue of retirements, the issue of replacements... Problems that we have specifically at specific times, but that translate into problems that are enquired, as they have to see in certain holiday periods the problems that there are to replace professionals, on vacation, in permits, in reduction of days... The need to strengthen pediatric care and also make a special commitment to the model of pediatric care. When we talk about the shortage of professionals – and I'm going to end it – although this is a widespread problem, I think we need to be very aware in Euskadi of the problem we have with the aging of the population, and, in that sense, the whole approach to chronic diseases to which I referred earlier, and that shortage of professionals in the socio-health field is going to be very evident. And it will undoubtedly get worse in the coming years. The need, also, to reorient the work of nursing; to analyze once and for all the excessive bureaucracy of primary care, to focus on aspects of organization and management, which, if improved, would lead to an improvement of the health quality of primary care, as well as a redefinition of primary care teams, with a redefinition of their functions, as well as an impulse of home consultations. Because if we talk about the impact of chronic diseases, we also know that older people, as far as possible, also want to be treated in the home environment. And all this without forgetting the sustainability of the health system, that measures must be taken to make the health system effective, efficient and sustainable. We are therefore satisfied with the agreed amendment. Nik you had to go eskaera age professional eskaera zehatza agertzen of age, ildo horretatik, pozik gaude. But it is true that, although some issues and this debate... – and we are seeing mobilizations throughout Spain, not only in the Basque Country – but it is also important to highlight the situation – and I think it must be highlighted, which is remarkable – of the economic capacity we have in the Basque Country. In the Basque Country, we allocate a per capita health expenditure of €1,730 per capita; an important effort is being made in the budgetary allocation in the health budgets, and this also has to mean that effective measures are taken to alleviate all the deficits that present primary care at the moment, and that it is also being analysed with a moment of reflection, also with concrete proposals. Let us also see the presentation made to us by the counselor of the definitive strategy; also how the advisory council on primary care is launched; it is a new council, and so far there is only, as such, the Council of Adviser on Mental Health... In short, what we are calling for from the Basque Government is an active position and the adoption of concrete measures in the field of obviously its own, in order to alleviate, as I said, all those shortcomings which currently present primary care and, above all, to face the challenges of the future that we have, which are not few. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u126	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u127	Yes, thank you again, and good afternoon again. We are discussing our first attention at this last point of the day. Just because it's the last point doesn't mean it's of little importance. It's just the opposite. It is not a small thing, because the first attention is the door to the medical system, and by which they should be executed the equity, the welfare of physical attentions and professionals. That means we should take more care of our first attention than ever, and, in our opinion, since the creation of the ESI model, it's obvious that our first attention has suffered. And that's because the politics that's doing it have been hospitalist, in our opinion. Plus, the cuts that the first year of the year has gone by, like, for fun's sake, even though they're getting bigger and bigger than Hosa's budget. So if we want to give them the strength and importance of their first attention, it's essential to have a proper budget. In our opinion, we should have first taken care of a system based on a good organizational model. In other words, what we can't do is absorb all the resources of hospitals in a way, and thus weakening this first attention by placing all our strength in hospitals. In our opinion, it is, as it were, necessary to approach the people, to approach the first of our attentions, and really to promote the prevention and the policy of health. Therefore, we would like to put force in the first instance, as well as when we spread the patterns of organizations, and in the process of implementing them. And for this purpose, a power will be formed in this legislature, thanks to the EH team. Because, through a good organization, we can even strengthen preventive, physical attention, and the well-being of professional care. Bitartean, Sailburuak aurkeztu of –eta aurkeztuko digu– Euskadiko Lehen Mailako Arretarako Strategy: political liburu bat, bath edukietan adotu gabeko liburua omen da, adotu gabeko strategy eta dokumentu hori itxita dago. Ez dakigu zer-nolako trading egin of a strategy hori lantzeko, bathe argi bear dugu adostasun mail ez of the bear zabala izan. And, as it is not a strategy that is too consensual, there are a number of problems that need to be addressed. Among others, that several professionals are mobilizing in the street, we are seeing it; although, of course, it is not the aspect that we are most concerned about or only concerned about. As we have said, the organization of human resources in primary care is fundamental, not only because of the motivation and satisfaction of each and every one of the professionals working in this field, but also because this certainly reverts to patient care. Let us not forget that it is precisely the patient who has to be at the center of all health policies, public policies that affect the prevention and empowerment of the patient. Patient who, under no circumstances, is affected by excessive bureaucracy, waiting lists, the workload of some professionals... On other issues that are alien to their interests and needs. And, to say this, we saw the original text which Podemos introduced together, but perhaps there was too much exactness in this proposition. That's why EH Collect has introduced a full-scale correction to this initiative. Our intention is to agree in a wide mode of primary attention strategy. That's our red line, for one purpose: To ensure the necessary human resources, to lighten and plan the job profiles and the needs of the patients. We don't want to be involved in the previous focusing strategy, because the chief physician himself will explain to us all the things that appear in this plan on the committee. Amaitzeko, Bakarrik esan behar dut adotu den erdibidekoa ez dela bear mamitsua, gure iriziz. Garrido andreak esan du poztekoa her, but we are not so optimistic. It seems that the three points that have been agreed and that we have also signed... Well, it's very declaratory, and the government is urged to do things that it's actually going to do: For example, the first point, which presents the strategy in the committee. She's already been asked to attend. Secondly, with the participation of the Advisory Council on Primary Care. It would be more important if I didn't count on that advice! Pursuing greater consensus? That is important, in our view. But, as I say, something the Government plans to do. And then, on the basis of that document, well, propose measures that improve all primary care. We believe that this is also the objective of the Government; it should be. We are therefore urging, through a compromise amendment, something, I believe, that the Government had in mind to do. Let's be honest. We've signed what we've signed. I don't think it's a compromise amendment to throw rockets, Mrs. Garrido. It seems pretty declaratory to me. And the truth is, we have not much to say that by this half-light, the present cheese will be repaired. But, ladies and gentlemen, hope must never be lost. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u129	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to everyone and everyone. I do not know whether it is to launch rockets or not; what is true is that this compromise amendment responds to a commitment made by the Government, from the Basque primary care strategy. And, in the end, what is being collected is what all the political parties have proposed to collect the amendment. That is, because, perhaps, if we had proposed other things, I would have collected other things. But, reading the compromise amendments of one or the other, because in the end the text does a bit of a merger, I think, of all. It is true that if each political party had written our own text and it had only been that, because probably the level of ambition of one party would go in one line, in another party, in another party, but, well, in the end, the political game is in being able to arrive at the text that we have arrived at, and of course, give the Government an opportunity to be able, in that committee, when it presents the primary care strategy, to listen to everything that it is going to collect, and, indeed, see if it is where we can be more or less demanding with it. Because it is fair to acknowledge that this strategy has been working for more than a year. In this debate, not only has the advisory council participated, but sectors from all OSI in Osakidetza and professional colleges of doctors and nurses have participated. Therefore, an attempt has been made to reach a consensus, in which probably everyone has left hair on the cateral, but which, indeed, has worked with those sectors which, of course, have much to contribute in terms of health policy in primary care. As the previous speakers have said, it is true that in primary care today we can read in the media that there are those who do not agree with what is being done and, of course, have their right to protest, to strike and to raise those shortcomings that they believe the Government is not responding. But it is true that it is a fundamental link in the development of health policy, and it is also the one closest to the citizen. I share with Mrs Blanco that, in fact, the patient must be – and I believe he is – on the front line of Euskadi's health policy, and it seems important to us. Therefore, it is not only necessary to talk about the demands of doctors, which yes, because it is the professionals who develop primary care; but, indeed, those who receive it are the patients and must be heard, must have enough time to be attended to, must not have long waiting lists... But I believe that, in this Parliament and in this Department of Health, efforts are being made to ensure that all of this has the necessary improvements. I believe that little more can be added, than has been said before, if we focus only on what Mr Uria was proposing to us. I am going to say one thing: I do not intend to open the debate because there is unanimity, and I think it is fair not to look for any confusion or misunderstanding in these matters, but I find it unfair to say that some of the statements that are made with regard to the budgets are wrong. Because, when the budget is very high, because the budget is very high and the department eats everything it has. When we lower the budget for the department, it's because we don't give importance to that department, because we give it to one another and we don't give it to another. Man, I think that kind of statement, I don't know... I believe that these budgets, which have not gone ahead and which the Government has presented, were more realistic than the previous ones. I believe that this Government had made an important effort to support certain policies in order to continue to improve the quality of life of citizens, and because they were also earmarking expenditures, in that draft budget, which were in other cases made but not made. I therefore believe that the Department of Health of the Basque Government is the one with the most money from the rest of the Government, because it is considered a fundamental priority to be able to develop everything that has to do with health policies. Also the setting up of demanded and necessary hospitals in many regions of Euskadi, and probably primary care could be given more, as could be given more to hospitals, to pharmacies, to everything, but I find it unfair to treat the budget as something that is almost given because, whenever given, it will end. That is why there are budgetary negotiations, that is why there are votes in the plenary of the budgets, and what we have today is primary care for which this Government is going to work, for which a strategy has been drawn up and which is going to be presented to us, and, of course, I do believe that it has worked for consensus and for the improvement of the conditions of these doctors, always thinking of patients as recipients of health policy. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u130	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u131	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good afternoons. I would like to start with one statement: primary care has played a key role in the Basque health system, and has developed essential functions to provide all people living in Euskadi with quality health care. One claim that, as could not be expected, is normal or logical in the argument of a parliamentarian who defends his Government, this Government. But when I wrote it, I did a memory exercise. The stage for the first 30 years of my life was Derio. What image do I keep referring to the health of my people? Well, I keep two images: a black and white image of the doctor's house, which was a small office next to the old town hall and a single doctor, Don Juan, and the practitioner's consultation above the bar Jose Mari, next to the barriers, near the station. And then I have a picture that is in color: the health center in the environment of the 1980s reform, or I would say the revolution of the 1980s system. Another world, we considered it that way in the people; this is another world. With this, I would now say that primary care has indeed played a key role in the Basque health system. And so we are told by the main health indicators, which show that our life expectancy has grown steadily in recent decades until it reached 83.2 years, three years above any other European citizen and along with life expectancy in Japan, for example, at the head of the world level, as well as our life expectancy, free of disability, which exceeds the European average and is one of the highest in the continent. Results that cannot be attributed exclusively to the health system but which have much to do with it, thanks, in addition to continuous planning or economic investment maintained over the years by successive governments, to the key work of health professionals and professionals. An achievement, therefore, of our entire society. What are our main strengths of the Basque model of public health? Its accessibility. We have 134 health centres and 196 clinics, spread over the three historical territories and which are also the gateway to the system. Another strength: the different professional profiles that make up the level of primary care. Another strength: the resolution capacity of these specialists, genuine specialists in people; specialists able to solve, directly, most of the problems or to direct them to the health resource we need, and who offer a continuity of care throughout our life, at a level where universality manifests itself in all its extension. However, as has already been pointed out, demographic change, resulting from the progressive increase in life expectancy, the problems of success to a large extent and a notable drop in birth rates – not so much – are transforming our society into ageing. This is changing the epidemiological pattern to which the health system must respond. We found the chronicle, the dependence... We need to talk, as Mrs Garrido has said, about the sustainability of the system. We must recognise – I believe we all recognise – that, over the last few years, the Basque administration has been working precisely to adapt the health system to the new realities, needs and demands of society. A clear example is the transformation of the Basque health map into 13 OSI or the substantial advance in socio-health coordination. On the other hand, the generational replacement of professionals is another reality to be faced. Of course there are challenges. But Euskadi also has a more favourable situation than other places, with averages of family doctors, nurses and nurses, pediatricians... with higher averages of these professionals, and a number of health professionals in primary care, when we talked about resources, which in a decade has doubled: from 2,200 to 4,500. But still, challenges. And, today, the Department of Health uses a powerful tool, to adapt to those challenges, to move beyond those challenges; the strategic lines we are talking about are this powerful tool. What's your ultimate goal? The ultimate goal of these lines, of this strategy? Three, I'd say three: First, to prestige, to prestige primary care; secondly, to strengthen it, to strengthen its role, that of primary care, and, thirdly, to adapt the model of primary care to these new socio-demographic challenges, always from the point of view of health as a fundamental right. The Health Adviser said not long ago: "This is a road map to preserve – he said – the good model of primary care, which Basque society has built over more than three decades, and to improve it, in order to respond to the challenges of a new time and, above all, to the needs of the people who will lead them." That is why these seven strategic lines are defined. I will not remember them, they are very interesting; I will not remember them, because soon the counselor will remind us. That is why we, as a Parliament, in exercising that role of impetus to the government, were bringing this initiative or Mr Uria was bringing it. But what we can see, in any case, is that the Government was already in progress. Regardless of the parliamentary momentum, the Government was already on the move, it was already on the move, it was already self-propelled. The Government is active on this issue. Was the government late? No, no, He's been working on this a long time. You're not late, Mr. Uria. It wasn't too late. I am glad to have reached this agreement – or this agreement has been reached – unanimously. And I really, as Mrs Red said, devalue this agreement by making a comment – Mrs White – of the 'good' type, because we have agreed, first of all or as a first point, that the councillor should come', you said, that the councillor should come. Well, at the first point we didn't agree on that, Mrs. Blanco. At the first point, we agreed that the adviser should come forward with the strategy. And not just that. And I read you, and that you bring us a definition, that you bring us a diagnosis, that you set the necessary budget allocation, that you set schedule and planning the necessary resources. That's more than the counselor's coming. The counselor will come, but he'll come with some homework. I'm sure he'll come with the homework; I'm sure he'll come with some homework. No, the counselor's coming. No, no, For me – I am not going to throw rockets – but for me it is something very important. And, fundamentally, this agreement I consider important because... What... the ultimate goal is the motivation and satisfaction of professionals. But not only that, as Mrs Red also said, but the coverage of the needs of patients and patients, always with the aim of pursuing this constant improvement. Constant improvement in quality, equity and accessibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Wanna be on the answering shift? No, Uria. Euskal Group Pionarian representative, Mrs Garrido, right? Oh, no, no. Mrs. Blanco, do you? From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u133	Thanks again, ma'am. From the seat... Mr. Aiartza, I think you understand me perfectly. Under no circumstances have I said that the counselor should come here for coffee. I said he's coming to the committee. In any case, if you want to have coffee, we can have it before, during or after... But I think you understood me perfectly when I said 'the counselor should come'. He's got me, too. Because the counselor has already asked for the appearance. So we didn't ask for anything new... And, of course, he'll come to the committee to explain that plan, that primary care strategy, which is what he's been asking for. Another thing is that you want to interpret it differently and finish today, today's plenary, because in a slightly more playful way. Well, I appreciate that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Miss Rojo mustn't speak. And Mr. Adarz shouldn't speak a word. [[Berber]] Now that we've ended our discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos, Euskal Popula, Euscal Sozialists, EH Collectors and Euzians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-14.u135	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and fourteen.
