ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, I tell you the ninth point is withdrawn. First point in theme list: "The question is, the members of Gorka Álvarez Martíne Eubertarians made to the head of the Board of Education, 2019-2022 University of System Plan." Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u1	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Mrs. Greart, who was admitted to the Council of Government on the 12th of March. New college plan, 2019 to 2022. This plan is a specific tool for regulating the Esscal University System, as is received in the 3/2004 Law supported by the Euscal University Act. That's one of the strategic plans planned for the New Testament: The plan which aims at establishing the precise strategy and connection of all the Universities of our country. Thus our question is as follows: What are the main challenges planned on the System Plan of 2019-2022 University? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u3	The President of the legislature, the president, the chief of the department, the members of the legislature, good day. If any advanced people want to be reformed in the global international context, at least with other important elements, it needs the following: An advanced university system, a system of college which is part of a well-rooted strategy in its close context. For Euskadi it's essential to have a college system that's going on for excellence and is rooted in society. We have established the strategic basis of the development of the year after the Eukadian university system with 2019-20 of University Security, and we've been working together with the university community. Besides, it is one of the 15 strategic plans promised by the President Urkullu, and, accepting this plan, the commitment of the Government to the strategic designs of this legislation has been fulfilled. In short, we are talking about strengthening the Basque university system as a whole. For more than a year we have defined its structure and objectives in a shared work. We are clear that we have to take advantage as a society of the strengths of the three universities that are part of our university system. We will coordinate their efforts and work together to achieve objectives previously defined by the Basque Government, working as a team, but with university autonomy, and with the co-responsibility of all its parts, with the involvement of the University of the Basque Country/Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea, the University of Deusto and Mondragon Unibertsitatea. In fact, this plan is called the Plan of the Basque University System, unlike the previous university plan. And it's a very important hue. With this plan we aim to promote a common strategy and objectives for all universities, with the collaboration of the entire university ecosystem, BERC, Ikerbasque, Unibasq, the cluster 4Gune and Euskampus. Through a university and research policy, the new plan is developed on the basis of five axes: research of excellence, university relations more enterprise, training based on innovative methodologies and methods, internationalization and the university community. In that valley, a series of challenges have been identified for 2019-2022 period. The first challenge is to develop 2030 Agendas for permanent development by the six goals: Inclusive education, genus equality, economic growth, employment, infrastructure and development, reducing and co-working for development. Other challenges take care of these matters: to promote talent, to a relationship with the schools of business and trade, to the understanding, to create a permanent cooperation with science, technology, and other agents on the Euscal Network, or to strengthen the campus for Eurore. We know that we have encouraged the modern plan as to its design, with important challenges and ambitious targets. We've made a firm bet for this plan from EukMU. The economic investment has increased 10 percent. But above all the strength of the plan lies in its foundations. I want to value and publicly thank the commitment made by the three universities, with their rector and principals at the head. They have fully aligned themselves with and endorsed the approach taken by the Basque Government. The Basque university system will be enriched as a whole with this teamwork for the benefit of our entire society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the House of Ubeka and the members of the House of EH assembled members of the Medical Department, concerning the repairing of the suitations of 2011." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u5	Good morning, everyone. The question of Professional development is another example of the "good" management of the Medical Department of this Government. Mrs. Murga, you've got another hot potato in your hands, another present that's not repaired another problem. You don't have thepel. He's been unsolved for so many years, because the snowball is getting bigger and bigger and harder to solve. It seems now that the government will begin to pay for calls from 2011, but from the margin of March 2019 the debt between 2012 and 2019 will not be paid to the workers, and it seems he has no intention of paying them. Will the medical department also move in this matter when it's forced outside to move? Does this government move when the courts force it to move? And if the courts don't say anything, what will this government do? A court has not accepted the resources of the Medical Department, and now it seems to be awaiting the verdict of the Central Court in the Basque Country. The Medical Department always needs a guinea-pig of foreign agents to move, and if there is no outside hand, if there is no intervention from without, this government lets the matter rot. Mrs. Murga, do you really want to start running? You're gonna change your style and grab the bull by the horns? So this government pays the workers who were introduced to the callings of the town of 2011?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u7	Mr. President, Mrs. President, members of the legislature, chief officers. Ms. Ubera, as you know, we've always respected court decisions. We'll do it this time, too, don't worry. However, the verdict we're talking about today is not final. You know this too. It is therefore to wait until the sentence concerning the appeal is completed. First of all, I would like to point out in this House that from the Department of Health and Osakidetza we have always respected all the decisions taken by the courts and in this case, as it could not otherwise be, we also respect the decision that the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country adopted on 13 March. Having said that, I would like to add that this is a non-binding judgment. It does not sign because the appeal for an autonomous cassation before the same court is still pending. It is therefore up to us to wait, and that means that for now we must not make any decision on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u9	That you respect the courts of justice, the committee. And your work is not to wait, your work is to govern, to govern, to make politics, and not to divert your cares to the courts of justice; for here it seems to be your standard of administration, when you are obliged by courts and courts, and when you have a spur outside, then to move and do something. And in the meantime, wait? Is that your policy? Is that your standard of government? Mrs. Murga, I was hoping you'd change your style, but it looks as if you'd follow the same path. And you've got a case in your hands, too, this hot potato, you've got to fix it. This government has hitherto been reduced to such a poor practice of conversation and negotiation. He's got to pay the staff debt. In 2014, he suspended the rights and the law, this law which you so much like to observe, you must obey. You're not doing it. Don't you say, like a mantra, that the law must be fulfilled? Well, fill it out. Look, 2013 to 2014, this government didn't do anything. In 2014, it occurred to him to do something, and what did he do? The rights of workers and the law are suspended. He hung up! Under an excuse for economic crisis. Now, isn't the economy going better? If, then, he has improved, he has paid the debt, he has fulfilled the rights of the workmen, and he has turned them round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u11	Ubera andrea, I insist, the judgment handed down by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country is not a firm judgment and is not final. We cannot create false expectations among professionals that we cannot meet later. It therefore seems reasonable to try not to draw hasty conclusions and wait to see what is decided on the pending appeal. I assure you that we will abide by and comply with what the courts say. We'll do what the courts decide, just like we've always done. However, I would remind you that in recent months, in this same area, very different judgments have been handed down. Still, we have said this on more than one occasion, Osakidetza's will has been, and remains, the opening of professional development for this 2019. This is what we asked the unions at the sectoral table on February 19, and, in fact, in the coming weeks, Osakidetza will already start paying the professional career supplement fee since January 2019. Our will is clear. We too regret that, during the hardest years of the crisis, the staff of Osakidetza, together with the rest of Basque society, suffered the economic consequences of the crisis. The money from the public arks should be directed towards maintaining the entire public health system, in order to be able to meet the needs of all people. With a health service of quality and equity, as it has been all these years. Those times, fortunately, are already passing; therefore, it is now time to resume that economic complement, and that is what we are doing. We're going forward, so we're going to step forward. To show what our will is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Third point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Lander Martín, the Congressman of the Podemos team, the president's state of the Eusk0s." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Lehendakari, given the changes that have taken place this week in the Health Council because of the mismanagement of your Government, the OPE scandal in Osakidetza, how do you assess the situation of your Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u15	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mr Martínnez, it's a healthy government situation. The situation of the Government is healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u17	Mr Lehendakari, I believe that your Government is described by two fundamental pillars today: one, which is in minority; two, which you have just had to change to the head of a key council because of a scandal. I don't think that's exactly a healthy situation; in fact, I think he needs a doctor precisely. I would not have been too self-critical on your part, especially seeing the information published yesterday afternoon: that Darpón himself presented to you his resignation and you did not accept it. One more step of mismanagement. Now we understand much more and much better the absolute support that has received from the former councillor and the over-activated and over-reaction of his party, the PNV. Of course, we had to offer him and thank him for having endured all these months when, probably, he understood from the very first moment that there was a political responsibility to the scandal that Elkarrekin Podemos exposed. If this news is confirmed, our group would probably recognize the gesture of the counselor and we do regret that you, lehendakari, used it as a shield and let him manage in solitude all these months something that you too had to address. But I also feel obliged to remind you, and your party, that what the opposition has been doing in recent months is your work, that what the opposition has been doing in recent months is the task we have of controlling the Government and of removing the issues that the Government is not able to manage, because you, in addition to not having managed the crisis of the Osakidetza scandal well, of the OPEs, what you do not manage well at all is the minority and not assuming that you are in a minority. What is the meaning of your Government, Mr Lehendakari? I wonder, after denouncing the opposition all these days, what attitude you are going to take to manage your objectives, with a minority government and that, practically pulling us out of any space of dialogue, you have broken bridges with the opposition. I think you have two alternatives. Humility, dress up, try to open sincere dialogue with the opposition so that this legislature is useful and we can draw the laws that are open with as much consensus as possible and that this Parliament demonstrates its usefulness to a citizen who is increasingly full of empty words and who also sees that we are not able to advance legislation in this Parliament. And then, the second part would be for you to decide to take the path of pride. If they do not accept that the role of the opposition is to control the Government and demand responsibility for mismanagement, and if they strive to pull forward alone, with a victimistic attitude rather than leadership, that control will certainly be much greater. My group has already taken a step forward by solving the chasm they made with the accompanying laws, but rest assured that we will not whitewash the government's weak capacity to negotiate with the opposition if it responds to an electoralist strategy and a partyist strategy. Be assured that we will live up to what Euskadi needs, but once again I have to remind him, because it is something that tends a lot to forget, that the interests of Euskadi are not the interests of the PNV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, I insist that the government's situation is healthy. Do we need a doctor? We do. The health department is, therefore, a healer in this line and even in my heart, we have complete tranquillity in the whole government, because we are well cared for. Anyway, when we're going to meet again and again about Osacinance, as was announced yesterday, I think the word that was given to me about Osacides and the chief physician of the departments in his time is being fulfilled, and we're doing the whole thing, it was clear that we're actually having our discussion last night too, as the Eubertians and Socilist Party spoke. From that point on, we can go on and show what we're doing, what we're doing and how we've done. And, as we say, time will put us all in our place. Anyway, it's better than when the process started 28 months ago and you'll understand the reason. We're just filling up the program, so we give an answer to Euskaki's hinges and the needs of the citizens. The program of government is our commitment to euscal society, which is our purpose to continue to fulfil. I've never hidden that there's trouble. I know better than I know, but it's clear that we're dealing with these problems: unemployment has come down, and more young people have their first experience of work, their exports are getting stronger and their exports are going up; there are 50 projects for innovation; the gas leaks in the heat effects have been reduced; we have filled the public's engagement; we are at the end of the nation, in transparency; the survival rate of the school is extended, poverty is increasing, poverty is increasing; we are increasing for families, and later on we are in the genus; and the past is still more open, and the gates are still open for political purposes. But again, there's trouble, and I've never hidden it. As you know, the fun is ready for these goals, and we've got a lot of opportunities to make a new deal, and you've got them together on Podemos' table. The Government is guided by the implementation of the programme. This is our commitment to society. We are responding to the pillars, commitments and initiatives of the governance agenda and also to the 15 country goals. They are country objectives, not only of the Government. Moving forward on these goals requires dialogue and collaboration. We are aware of that. These objectives relate to economic recovery and employment, therefore, to the new public employment law or the reform of Lanbide; they relate to social cohesion and, therefore, income-guarantee income or support for families; they relate to equality between women and men and therefore to the new equality law and the eradication of macho violence against women. These issues are on our agenda and on your agenda. It reflects on the situation of the Government and addresses the situation in the country. We have reached agreements with you, agreements with which we believe we are making progress. These are agreements that serve as the basis for the disposition that we also have for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera, members of the Basque Socialists, made to the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and Kostsumos." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u21	Gracias, president. President. Good morning, everyone. Commissioner, six months ago I was asking your predecessor in the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs about the characteristics of the business entrepreneurship aid programme. And he did it because Basque trade is facing a situation of change of model. The latest statistical data provided to us by the National Statistical Institute indicate that retail sales in Euskadi grew by 1.8% in January, three tenths more than in Spain as a whole, and that employment in this commercial sector increased by 1.3%, one tenth more than the Spanish average. Euskadi in January was one of the nine autonomous communities where sales increased in year-on-year terms, and although numbers, data, are important, the more we should care about people who every day with a personal effort raise the blinds of their businesses, their businesses, with some uncertainty about the present and the future nearest in the commercial sector. And in this case, the perception that the federations and associations of traders transfer to us is that achieving these positive results is being complicated and will be even more so in the near future. And the Basque commercial ecosystem, identified as an example of good practice from other communities, needs entrepreneurial people and also needs tools that support, support and drive entrepreneurship. And it is that new purchasing models are being adopted globally in the world and in Euskadi as well. Here, in Euskadi, the Basque model of trade takes time at a crossroads, because, on the one hand, we are witnessing the closure of traditional shops in our cities and towns. But, on the other hand, there are also new business models, which arise as a result of the incorporation of new players into the commercial sector, because entrepreneurial people with new ideas about business are becoming part of this sector, who are waiting for a boost, who are waiting for help from the public administrations to launch these new business ideas, new ideas about trade; people who are waiting for action from the institutions in the field of competitiveness, of management training, of new technologies, of commercial dynamism. In short, entrepreneurship requires the Basque Government and the relevant public institutions to give significant impetus to measures and programmes to relaunch the commercial sector. And that is why the Basque Socialists wanted to know, Commissioner, what balance you make of this programme of aid for commercial entrepreneurship as the head of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, which set up this programme of aid a few months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. In reply, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u23	Thank you, President. Lehendakari. Egun where we're supposed to be. Indeed, trade is facing a paradigm shift. A model in which sectoral conversion and modernisation move hand in hand; a smaller sector quantitatively in terms of number of enterprises, but more robust and robust qualitatively in terms of modernisation, profitability and employment. Therefore, it is currently undergoing a process of dualisation, where entrepreneurship and competitiveness policies are two strategic tools for consolidating and modernising the sector, and they are a key element in ensuring not only the commercial service to citizens, but the quality of life and social cohesion of our urban model. Therefore, from the department we have promoted aid to encourage commercial entrepreneurship for self-employed people, businesses and municipalities. An order of aid intended for two areas, business and institutional, with a very clear objective: on the one hand, it is committed to the rehabilitation of urban areas, with preference for the most disadvantaged, with aid for the improvement of their infrastructures and services; and on the other hand, it is committed to innovation, entrepreneurship and the creation of spaces in which to share knowledge and experience, thus building new areas for commercial activity of proximity. A first call was for EUR 2.2 million, EUR 1.2 million for municipalities and EUR 1 million for businesses and entrepreneurs. Half of this second amount was allocated to women-led commercial enterprises. Due to high demand and the need to maximise support to the sector, aid was increased by 1.4 million in December. This enlargement focused exclusively on enterprises and self-employed persons. Twenty-four requests have been submitted for municipalities in the three historic territories, of which 20 have been estimated, with an induced investment of more than EUR 1.5 million and a subsidised amount of EUR 1 million. As far as commercial, autonomous and autonomous enterprises are concerned, 221 applications have been settled on an estimated basis, with an induced investment of more than EUR 5 million and a subsidised amount of EUR 1.8 million, of which 50 % has been earmarked for women's projects, as I mentioned earlier. In short, these are projects that seek to promote commercial entrepreneurship, both for those who start the activity and for those who expand it, and for projects of action of the municipalities in a context of innovation and commercial singularity. Therefore, this programme, in this new year, will continue to focus on municipalities and entrepreneurs that meet these criteria, with the firm commitment to promote the evolution of urban spaces and environments, so that the ecosystems necessary for the development of commercial activity, in particular, and of the urban economy, in general, will be generated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Five point in theme list: "To ask the president, Alfonso Alonso Arnezinka, member of the Popula team, about the stability of the fun. " Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Very good morning. Mr Lehendakari, the truth is that reality answered the question. Since I registered her last week, her Government has not been in crisis, but its Government has been in crisis. And I'll tell you why I think things have gone this way. You have a lot of power, but your government is weak. You carry out marketing with a certain skill, but, of course, your marketing is focused exclusively on culting the personality of the leader and hiding the mistakes and shortcomings of his management. The problem is that when you have so much power, and you think you have had such absolute success in the management of the politics of things or of the votes, because you are constantly held back by the fear of losing it. And in that situation it is decided that it is better not to make any decision. And this is what is happening in your Government, and it is therefore clear that there is a lack of direction. We will examine the political management that you have done in recent times. When the legislature began, that seemed like a promising thing; you had a government agreement and also had a stability formula that we provided you with. He decided to change all that last year; he decided to dispense with the support, he decided to liquidate the relationship with the People's Party, to charge himself with Mr Rajoy, in short, to change all things. Already today he is the main and most deserving partner of Pedro Sánchez in the face of the upcoming elections. And he thought that if he signed a little sovereignist paper to Bildu's, then he could solve his parliamentary minority situation. What happens is that Bildu's are very useful for building dystopia, but for practical things they don't work, because they haven't approved you the Budgets, and because they won't approve you anything that works to undertake reforms that will improve things. And I believe that in that lack of political definition, that lack of objectives, that fear of losing power if it leans one way or the other, that permanent search for a kind of centrality that consists of nothing, management suffers and the results are the ones that suffer. You say, "I do my show." But the results are bad; ask the Security Advisor, the crimes increased by 36%. He doesn't even know how to buy cars. And what's the answer you give us? That tourism has gone up. Crimes have increased by 36 per cent. That's the data. Last year, employment was created; public employment, private employment was destroyed. You have comarcas in Euskadi that are an industrial moor, the last big company has been closed in the Left Margen, has an unemployment rate of 20%. Where are your plans, your projects, your measures? Where are the decisions that can clearly guide? The educational model suffers, the concerted one is on strike, we have the worst results, but you do not make a single reform. He could continue to review the actions of his Government. Your advisor, where is your proposal for a model of social protection that really changes and solves the problems that Basques denounce every day? We have management problems. Your advisors are in a weak position because you do not exercise your leadership in the political management of this Government. I think you have to do that thinking and you should think about it, because there is a year and a half left to finish the legislature and I honestly don't know what your balance is going to be. You have passed four bills. He committed 28, and it's a year and a half. Of course, I have to tell you these things, because to you, that everyone loves you so much, nobody tells you things; everything is a loa, everyone does the ball. It has a lot of power, a very consolidated situation, everyone speaks well of you and everyone does the ball to you, but the reality is that the government is making waters, that the pagan has been a good advisor, that is Mr Darpón, and that the rest of the advisers are also in a situation of weakness to deal with the reforms that Euskadi needs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, look, I am not going to enter this dialectic, this way of doing politics every 15 days that you have been reproducing full control after full control. You know that reality is another very different than what you have intended to draw today; you know it. And you also know about the meetings we have held. Some of the issues that you have raised here today, as a government deficit, when it is deficit of the opposition's own parliamentary groups. In any case, the situation of the Government at the moment, Mr Alonso, is exactly the same as at the beginning of the legislature. And the novelty, I'll tell you, is not in the government, the novelty is not in the government. He's in the opposition, in the way he does the opposition. The novelty occurs when the People's Party, Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin We can add their votes in that way to make opposition, with the sole intention of wearing down the government. How things have changed in these three months, since you rejected the Basque Government's draft budgets for this year! How much! Look, we have not had a crisis, and there is no crisis, because the Government maintains the same formula as at the beginning of the legislature and continues to make progress in meeting the government's agenda and the country's objectives. And the results are in everyone's sight. The Government has an arithmetic minority, yes, it has an arithmetic minority in Parliament. Obstensible, when the People's Party, EH Bildu and Podemos add their votes in the political strategy of wearing down the government. That's what EH Bildu is for, isn't it, Mr. Alonso? That's what it's for. Look, turning these two parties, Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, into their strategic partners in the way to make opposition is their decision; respectable, although it is shocking that the political party that has historically represented the moderate right of Spain, in his own words, decides to join in the way to make opposition of the extreme Basque revolutionary left, in his own words. This strategy, instead of converting, proposing or doing, unites to criticize, to question and to undo. To undo projects, to undo proposals and trajectories; sometimes also with a great personal cost, Mr Alonso. They can do it and they have the majority to do it, it's their decision. From here, all I can tell you is that the Government will continue to work on each and every project and objective of our programme. The Government's institutional agenda is working to ensure that Euskadi remains a reference in health, education and social welfare policies. In this social welfare for which reform of income security income is also necessary, whose debate you asked me to postpone, Mr Alonso. To settle industry and exports. To continue to grow and place unemployment below the 10 %. To be pioneers in the commitment to climate change, in effective equality between women and men. To take a step further in sustainable human development. Look, I know that the responsibility of the People's Party is not the government. But, as you well know, the willingness and willingness of the Government is to dialogue to build agreements, as we have demonstrated with you, with Euskal Herria Bildu and also with Elkarrekin Podemos. So, you're gonna have to keep on filling up the program. That's our commitment to society and that's our responsibility. We have an opportunity to give a positive answer to our goals, our destinations, and we will continue to combine economic growth, new employment generation, and social policies for all the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Intertermination, members of the Basque Barrozhia Pogula team made to the president, over the acts of eucalypse about the social and political crisis of this country that lives in Venezuela and endures the punishment of the social and political crisis of this country." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good, Venezuela. It's been many years in that country, it's been a long time in a deep political, economic, social, humanitarian crisis... That country so closely linked to us, to the Basque Country. A dictatorship permanently slaughters many people, including many Basque or Basque-origin people, descendants of Basques. The other day, Mr Lehendakari, we discussed this in the Basque Parliament and adopted a proposal not for a demanding law and a reference to the situation in that country. You were unable to attend that plenary session at the time of the debate and the vote on that initiative, but I believe that – and that is why we are bringing the initiative to this House – it is interesting to hear your opinion on what has happened, especially when it affects Basque people who are suffering from the crisis and who can have their eyes set on the Basque Country, in Basque, in Spain, so that they can have some hope in their future. That is the fundamental element and what we want to hear from you in this session. Last year you referred, on Basque Diaspora Day, to the people who went to Venezuela and also to the harsh conditions in which many of them live. And today we want to know what the Government can do too, what it is going to do or what it is doing and what we can do by all Basques to help our brothers in Venezuela and the people who are suffering that scourge of the social, political and humanitarian crisis, as I said before. I would like to remind you that last Thursday, 28 February, at that plenary session in which you were not in part, the following compromise amendment to a non-legislative proposal on the situation in Venezuela was adopted, which read as follows: "The Basque Parliament – it also recalled the pronouncements of the institutions of the European Union – supports a political process that leads to free and credible elections and supports the National Assembly as the democratically elected institution whose powers must be respected." Well, we're seeing day by day how the dictatorship, too, crushes that political situation that we demand and that we have to continue to demand. Let's see where it goes. It also said that the Basque Parliament demanded that civil rights, freedom and security be respected and applied to all citizens, but in particular to all members of the Assembly. We were doing that reflection. We supported Juan Guaidó. "The Basque Parliament supports Juan Guaidó, president of the democratically elected National Assembly, to lead a transition process that will lead as soon as possible to democratic elections sponsored by the UN and other international observers." We were talking about that more specifically. We were also talking about urging the armed forces and the different police forces from the Basque Parliament to respect human rights. We were worried about that. It is also, of course, very important that the integrity and security of all people be ensured, which is not the case in that country. And we were also talking about that "the Basque Parliament reiterates its deep concern about the social crisis in Venezuela, and demands that all humanitarian aid be urgently transferred to its population in order to alleviate the cruel hardships it suffers daily." That also interferes with that issue on which we want to question, which we want to know. And for that very reason, serve this interpellation to know that vision of his, of his Government, about the situation there in Venezuela and what we can do. I mean, it's not new this non-law proposition that I mean. Another different one was also discussed in 2017, and we have seen more issues in relation to the situation in Venezuela. We had the opportunity to welcome Mrs Rosaura Valentini, who is the wife of the political prisoner – Yon Goicoechea – to the Committee on European Affairs and External Action, who also had the opportunity to talk to us about the situation at the end of 2017. In other words, we are concerned and want to continue to know what we can do. That is why I told him to serve this inquiry to know his vision of the situation in Venezuela and what we can do from here to support them and to facilitate, alleviate their situation, even facilitate their return. It is clear that within Lehendakaritza, in his department, matters that have to do with cooperation, Basque communities, external action and human rights are part of his responsibility, and that they have a role to play in this grave situation that lives there and that many people suffer. People, I say again, also Basques, also of Basque origin, also descendants of Basques. It is clear that the analysis you can make, because of your knowledge of the situation, precisely because your department has all these responsibilities that I have told you before, we are interested and interested in this House. Well, this interpellation, of course, was also the result of what was the debate on that non-law proposal. It was presented on 4 March. We've seen that on March 12th... It had to have been substantiated on 8 March, but this plenary session could not be held by the strike and it did not stand. But we have seen that the government has taken some step – you will explain it to us now, of course – in relation to what we saw announced last 12th on the Governing Council. We understand that it is part of a first step of something that surely has to be broader. Well, we'll see what he announces. Such aid of extreme necessity is, of course, necessary, and we hope that it will be framed in what must be a more comprehensive action plan in view of the situation, and that it will address possible situations, but also structural ones, which we are seeing and which will also be transmitted to us by the people who from Venezuela tell us how they are living and what needs they have. That is why we understand that we must, from Euskadi, support and help the Basques who are having a bad time in Venezuela today. We have to do this, from Euskadi, to support, to help, those Basques and those Basques who are having a bad time. And, of course, we have done so politically, we have supported and adopted a reference statement in relation to what is happening, with that social, political, economic and humanitarian crisis. But also by supporting the non-law proposal we have to pass and take one more step. In addition to denouncing this situation to which the dictatorship has led a people, we need to take more determined steps to help them focus their future. Even that future goes through return or other kinds of help, how to focus, many of those people who originated here, a new life, a new future. He also saw interesting news in the newspaper Deia a few months ago. And that is why, and in that sense, I think it is good, in view of these circumstances, of the circumstances that Basques and Basques live in Venezuela, in view of the steps that this Parliament has taken, in view of the needs that are transmitted to us every day...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u30	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u31	Gracias, president. We want to know what political actions the Basque Government intends to carry out in order to address, to support Basque people living in Venezuela or who have their commercial, labour, and so on, interests in that country in the face of the serious political and social crisis they are suffering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u32	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, on 28 February this Parliament adopted the resolution to which you referred in your speech. A plenary in which, as you have said, I was partly not, partly I was. The part I wasn't in is because I was in the Supreme Court making a statement. Venezuela's crisis has lasted for more than a year and has been exacerbated in early 2019; in fact, Venezuela has become a benchmark for international politics. The cause is that the internal political-institutional crisis has been added to the economic and social collapse that had begun in 2013. Moreover, this crisis has acquired a regional dimension by the exit, according to some estimates, of between 3 and 4 million emigrants, and also an international dimension, given the active participation of the United States, China or Russia, in addition to the European Union, which defines our position. Given this reality, from an institutional and political point of view, the Government fully subscribes to the proposal adopted in Parliament, and in its day we also made a statement of the Government following the relevant meeting of the Governing Council. We are very aware that Venezuela has been a host country for the Basques. You have made reference to this, and let me recall, precisely, that it is this year 2019 when it is 80 years after the departure of hundreds of Basque families to this country as a result of the civil war and dictatorship. At that time, an agreement between the Government of Euskadi in Paris and the Venezuelan authorities led to the departure of these families who accepted the negotiated conditions. Thanks to that agreement, the Venezuelan Government anticipated travel and installation expenses, committing Basque families to reintegrate the amount of such expenses in a prudent time. That process was not without difficulties, but a large group of exiled people was set up, a diaspora that for political reasons had to leave Euskadi and undertake new vital projects from scratch. We therefore reiterate all the points adopted in the proposal, from the first, that it joins the European Union's request that a free and democratic elections be held as soon as possible in Venezuela, to the last point, passing through the fourth point, which you also mentioned, which calls for respect for the human rights, integrity and security of all Venezuelan people. Having said that, in response to your question, Mr Barrio, I will focus in particular on the fifth point of the proposal, since it refers to the deprivations suffered by the population and the necessary humanitarian aid, and in this regard I will give an account of the efforts and actions being made by the Basque Government in relation to this matter. Today, indeed, there are Basque families residing in the country, and the Government has tried and seeks to maintain a close relationship with this community. Following the adoption of Act No. 8/1994 of 27 May 1994 on relations with Basque communities and centres abroad, this relationship has been consolidated. We are currently in direct contact with the Federation of Basque Entities of Venezuela, as well as with the Basque etxeak of Caracas and Carabobo, in Valencia. This relationship refers to the fact that from the Basque Government we have practically daily contact with these communities and we are aware of the situation in the country. This is a matter of concern to us and of concern to us. We follow him very closely. At the same time, you, Mr Barrio, know that, as you have also mentioned, the General Secretariat for External Action of the Government has some lines of assistance for the Basque community living abroad. Article 1 of the above-mentioned Act sets out the objective of enabling, within the framework of the legal system and budgetary resources, the assistance, assistance and protection of Basque persons residing outside the Basque Autonomous Community. In addition, article 8 of the Act defines benefits in favour of Basque centres, contributing, among other objectives, to the care needs and, in particular, to situations of extreme need of their partners. Thus, since 2003, and by decree, this line of aid has been convened. This year 2019 the call is open until April 26 and is equipped with 202,000 euros. In the last call, through this same decree, 109 families from five different countries were helped: Venezuela, Argentina, Chile, Cuba and Mexico. The average support per family was 1,150 euros, and each and every request from Venezuela was met. This year, special attention has been paid and communicated to the Basque communities in Venezuela, as well as to the aid organizations working in the Basque region. We did so expressly and publicly after the Governing Council on 12 March, which you also mentioned. We believe that this line of aid is appropriate to help alleviate in some way the difficulties faced by families of Basque descent in the country. Our goal is to be able to care for as many families as possible in the face of the worsening situation. And in a complementary way we have explored different alternative ways of acting: we maintain contact with non-governmental organizations, religious congregations and the World Health Organization. We have explored possible avenues of collaboration, but they have not yet given their fruits or the desired fruit. The reality is that Nicolás Maduro does not recognize the humanitarian crisis in Venezuela and this prevents the free action of NGOs within the country. And as it is known, it does not accept the entry of humanitarian aid either. We have also encountered an additional problem, because the instability of the country does not allow for direct economic transactions with sufficient guarantees. In addition, the international cooperation agency of the Basque Government is also acting. Thus, last 2018 granted a grant of 141,000 euros to the Alboan Foundation to help, through its local collaborating entity, Fe and Alegría Venezuela, improve the food security conditions of a group of more than 600 girls, children, adolescents and young people studying in four schools in the states of Apure and Táchira, on the border with Colombia. This project started in September last year and is in force, since it lasts for 12 months. In the same vein, since 2010 work on the Colombian-Venezuelan border has been supported, through projects and strategies of humanitarian action of public call, with a total investment of 2.5 million euros. Initially, the initiatives were aimed at accompanying the displaced population in Colombian territory and those seeking refuge in Venezuela or Ecuador. Many of the activities implemented in Venezuela involved the local population hosting Colombian refugees. With the exacerbation of the Venezuelan crisis, the strategy has been changed to respond to the needs of the Venezuelan population leaving for Colombia. The intervention of this project is aimed at developing programmes for the protection of persons in situations of displacement and refuge through direct attention, prevention and construction initiatives for peace or peace, as well as the strengthening of personal capacities for social integration. They are examples, Mr Barrio, of both the structural and the short-term actions of the Basque Government, which, as I say, keeps all the channels of relationship, attention and assistance to Venezuela open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u35	Thank you, President. Thank you, lehendakari, for the answer. Indeed, we are also aware of the actions that are being carried out, punctual or somewhat more installed in time or of a general nature. I mean, yes, we also have contact with NGOs and Venezuelans and Venezuelans, Basques and Basques who tell us what the situation is like. Also, indeed, with members of religious orders who, of course, do exemplary work in Venezuela. In that sense, we understand that – you have said this – we must do it and we must, of course, demand a government like yours, which has power in what is the action or the possibility of humanitarian action, of cooperation, of external action, of defending human rights. We have also worked as a Parliament on this issue in other countries and in other programmes. In that sense, I think it is a good time to reflect on Venezuela in a timely manner, recognizing those efforts, that daily contact that you have said, those aids or steps, those actions, some fruitful, others fruitless because of the dictatorial regime itself that lives there. That is, I think we will try – as this is an inquiry and, I say again, in a constructive sense – to reflect through a motion on how the Basques here can help people of Basque origin, of Basque descent, the Basque Venezuelans there, in a somewhat more settled or structural way, seeing that the crisis has been going on for a long time and that it continues to continue. In other words, we have seen some examples in other autonomous communities; some strategies in relation to issues that have also had to be addressed specifically, either within a general framework of return, but also by expanding with other types of aid. We have seen strategies in autonomous communities, such as the Galician Xunta, which has laid down a number of elements. They are references, indeed; there they will have to do it one way, we will have to do it another way. People's quantifications are different... But we will bring – I want to tell you that we will do so in a constructive way, and to parliamentary groups as well –... , to seek through a motion what more steps to take. That is, what element, what action plan, in a strategic and concrete way, we can give in relation to the situation that these people live in Venezuela. We have been asked, we have also committed ourselves to analysing it, and I think it will be good that from this Parliament, in the same way as we do politically, we can also establish, see and analyse a joint and committed action plan in relation to such important aspects as return. I believe that element is so. We'll introduce him and we'll figure it out. I would like to know what you think about doing a structural approach, looking for a formula in this House and, logically, working with the Government to implement that path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u36	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, in the first intervention I also mentioned the circumstances that were, for example, regarding the reception of Basque exile in Venezuela and the conditions that were also given for the negotiation and agreements that at that time were reached with the Spanish State of the moment or, where appropriate, the Venezuelan State, which had the capacity to act. In any case, in the first intervention I have focused especially on the actions that we are carrying out in Venezuela. However, I reiterate that we maintain constant contact with the entities and associations that work from Euskadi in favor of Venezuela. As an example, we have held meetings with the Venezuelan pensioner community living in Euskadi. We have been transferred to the vulnerable situation in which some people living abroad find themselves, as a result of the Venezuelan executive's prolonged non-payment of their pensions. And in view of this situation, we have arbitrated, as the Basque Government, a solution, so that, for the purposes of calculating income security income in Euskadi, account is taken of the actual income received, not theoreticians. We are talking, for example, about the situation of Venezuelan pensioners residing in the Basque Country. Once again I would like to highlight the solidarity of the Basque people. Euskadi has always been able to respond and meet the needs of other peoples, and today we are also responding to Venezuela through various initiatives. It is worth noting, for example, the initiative of the Association of Colombians in Euskadi, a brotherly people of Venezuela, which, with institutional support, seeks to help Venezuelan families who intend to undertake a new vital project away from their land. The General Secretariat of Foreign Action attends consultations of Venezuelan people who want to come back, or come, to Euskadi in search of a better future. The General Secretariat for External Action is responsible for this. But as you can see, Mr Barrio, the Basque Government has kept informed and in contact with both the Basque community in Venezuela and the Venezuelan community in Euskadi. We maintain the lines of help and are arbitrating new initiatives adapted to the gravity of the situations that are taking place. It is not an easy question, and you know it, Mr Barrio, but with realism and from the capacity that the legal system enables us, and to the extent of our possibilities and resources, we are taking steps, and we will continue to try to open up new channels of collaboration in the face of the existing difficulties and the evidence that these difficulties continue to grow. Therefore, Mr Barrio, the Basque Government is going to continue to work, analysing the legal possibilities and even in relation to that measure that you raise, an issue that, as I said earlier, the General Secretariat for External Action is dealing with on a permanent basis, within what are the capacities that the legal system gives us to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and in which, therefore, the Spanish State also has something to say. In any case, we will continue to work and cooperate as much as possible, also with the help of the parliamentary groups in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpologies made by the Congressmen of the World of Maddalens to the President, who closes the political states of the Spanish State to EAE." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u39	Mr. President, good morning, and especially today, the new member of the government, Mrs. Murga, so that I may take advantage of being welcome from the Atrile and confirming in my name and in my behalf the wager of working for the community. For it is plain that a parliament cannot live with the people on its back, and that is why I bring it to-day, Mr. Urkullu, because it is a great concern of the future, and because it is our business, I think, to give answer to the cares of the people, and give way to the means. And as soon as I begin, a proclamation which I should like to have from the beginning to the end a guide, I shall mention a few words of Angela Davis's: "Feminism is the strategy of resisting oppression for the genus, against racialism and fascism." In what I have to look at Spain, I think it's a very convenient word, seeing what we're listening to and seeing in the last few days. For Spain won't be democratized, let's say, for once, when it's done, it won't be democratized, at least for the next few years. Maybe in 100 years they'll get something like that, but I don't think we'll be in this legislature to see it. Maybe a little stroll somewhere. And we of the present year are chosen by the Gupus and Arabs to solve their affairs. We do not know, I was saying, what will happen in 100 years' time, but we are here to deal with today's problems, and one of the obvious problems is that there is no way that Spain will be democratised in the short term. I think we need to make this clear. It is a state which has failed and is entirely conditioned by us as a people. They seek to solve all affairs with the impeachability of the nation of Spain, and their prosperity. There are four Generals of the Spanish Army in the Voxecan Army who are of any kind, and for the moment there are four of them, Generals who have had confidence posts in the government of the Papad Party and of the Socialist Party, including some still unsubstantialistists who, praising the figure of Franco, sign the manifts.... And the worst, perhaps, is not altogether insolent of those who have been the leaders of the Spanish Army or leaders of the Army; it seems to me to me that the Spanish Government, the Parliaments of Spain, and the justices of Spain, has not taken the least precaution against all these military generals and military generals, without shame. Can anyone think what would have happened if the leaders of the Army had signed a manifocco for Hitler, Mussolini, or Pétain? Well, I think maybe they'd be locked up in Germany. And I am not one of those who divide prisons; but in any case they would be utterly degraded in democratic countries. But not in Spain. In Spain, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, the Government of the PSOE, and the Minister of Defence, Margarita Robles, who is also a judge, shrug their shoulders and allow them to continue with the advocacy of Francoism. And they're trying to make us look like anecdotal facts, which are actually very serious symptoms of a deeply regressive and anti-democratic state. The military are not very few, and even the advocates of the State are plainly ranged at the right hand; and the latter is what we have here, which has been here before, and has acted without mercy upon its institutions. Sakona statue, deep state Or coming home, it's normal that young people in Alsatsu have been locked up for nearly three years in prison! All these, all of them, are abnormal in a democracy. They do not happen in a democracy, but they happen to us by the influence of Spain. Thus a State without democratic foundations has no future in Europe, I believe, in the present day. Maybe it would last another 100 years if things were going to work out for him, but it's not going to work. It is a week since the Spanish Government credited Social Security for 13 billion euros, otherwise it's going to kibra. More than 13 billion, Araba, Bizkai, and all the savings of Gipu. And the debt of the Spanish State is growing uncontrollable, 1,2 billion biliali bilizers, from the birth of 26,000 euros for each inhabitant of the State. 26,000 euros of debt per inhabitant, 60,000 euros if we only consider taxpayers. With this, if you ask us what it puts in your DNI, what it puts in your DNI, because we will have to answer that 60,000 euros per head of debt because they are Spanish, which, moreover, we do not want to be. Something that seems to me to be a ruin. We owe 60,000 euros per taxpayer, so that the military, the state's lawyers, the state's lawyers and the franchising magistrates will see their medals. Populous Party wants to remove the eucatic from our schools, Spanish language. Anyway, with debts drowned, freedom underfoot, which is what it is. Spain is getting closer and closer from the abyss, and will carry us all along. It's urgent, it's urgent, we think it's urgent to leave Spain. It is urgent and urgent that the Basque People should make their way; that they should be a worthy people, founded on society, social justice, and freedom, like other peoples in the world. But that's what the Basque Country wants, and that's what the Basque People will do. But until this has been accomplished, it's urgent and urgent to protect and expand the structures we have. This Parliament has shown that there is a way to do so, and we have a complete majority of text agreed on in self-organization, which might lead us to another state, because we need another state. At the door of an election cycle, this people require solidity, conviction, and determination, because the future is at play, and not the part-of-the-term calculation. I think we need a large majority of democratic people to be decisive as a people. It seems to me that we must play the great one, and that I shall not say, Mr. Urkullu, that part of a 400-foot railway is not important, nor less important; but, in fact, it is of little importance to the hinges of this people. And in the presence of these challenges, we need a government with clear ideas, a government that will tell us where we are going; and the messages we receive show whether it will be chained to the Spanish colonies, or a government that can be enchained again. You're talking to the Shuxra Popular Party, but it was your biggest partner. A member of the coalition has balked the hoocoustus this week, and he looks as if he hadn't said anything. And in Europe, with Ciudadans, the principal parts of this government have taken a picture with who and Ciudadans. Then, in this election campaign, say, you say that Ciudadanos and PPk will make a sort of agreement, and that they will stay for the Basque Autonomy Esermania, as well as for Navarro, in the photograph. That's why we're concerned, Mr. Urkullu, and that's why I brought this question here today, the interrogation, to know what the president and this government intends to deal with the stage or stage after April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. I thought that an entire gathering of this sort was a complete round of control, so that the Government had to control what had been done, but, well, thoughts. Irriarte, that the absence of democratic States will not be democratized, that it is Urgent, that it is Urgent. I don't know whether your chief leader agrees with what he says: After the general elections to come, the Basque Country would be willing to remain President Pedro Sánche. However, seeing the cause of your interaction and hearing your participation, you seem to know what must happen in April 28, and how all parties or legal parties should act. For my part, I will make your answer with humility. You ask me what I intend to do. My intention is to listen to the people, to know the results, and then decide them. I don't know whether you have the ability to predict the future or not, but you seem to feel sure that after the election the situation will be negative and hurtful to our country. And you're asking me to act like an informant and explain what I'm going to do in that spot where you think I'm safe. But I think it's more convenient for me to study political matters, Mrs. Iriarte, to consider several possibilities. It is important in politics to establish a position, and to establish natural principles for action, and to have a strong strategy, I think, may be enabled to accommodate it to one or the other. And our government has precisely fixed political principles, and has ethical principles on its basis. We have specific programs and strategy, the reflection of our commitment to society. These are the principles of our government: one, the ethical principle, connected with the co-existence of life, the principle which impels the union, the progress, and the social panic, to fix the three preponderances in order to act according to them, four, to foresee different chances of action, and five, the principle of defending self-denial. Thanks to these natural and solid principles of action, we can, I believe, face to any possible event in the future, as we have hitherto done. You, Mrs. Iriarte, seem to show some dowry, in any case, I don't know if divinations, but surprising. I believe that you have assured us that after 28 April a negative and involutionary situation will be imposed on our country, as you say in the justification of your inquiry. To me, out of pure democratic prudence, it seems reasonable to me first to hear the voice of the people and then to move forward on the lines of action. In any case, as I said in Basque, having firm principles helps to address any future scenario, and I share with you the principles of action that I will try to assert as lehendakari. First, a principle of ethics and coexistence. I will defend a critical memory that recognizes the injustice of the damage caused to each of the human rights violations caused in the past, without exception. And promoting a conciliatory coexistence is an irrefutable commitment to the present and to the future. Secondly, a principle of solidarity, progress and social cohesion. Solidarity is more than an ethical premise, it is a premise of social progress. Protection and assistance to those most in need is a priority of our Government. Thirdly, a principle of priority-based action. The Basque Government will continue to govern with the framework of priorities to respond to the four country challenges, in addition to the country objectives and its own government programme: education; demographic challenge and youth; innovation and digitization of the economy; and the internationalization of Basque Country. Fourth, a principle of action based on the anticipation of scenarios. Our scenario is going to be an increasingly global, open and competitive world. We are a small country and we need a road map that allows us to adapt to the changes that are taking place. This implies responding adequately to social changes, population ageing, new family models, responding to technological and economic changes, changes in health, education, energy, mobility or the environment. Fifth, a principle of self-government defense. The coexistence based on respect for the uniqueness of our self-government and the pluralism of society is the basic principle of our Government. We are going to defend the self-government recognized as an irrevocable legacy, we are going to work for full compliance with the Statute and the transfer of all outstanding competences, and we are going to remain committed to the goal of widening the agreement for a new status; from the agreement, not from unilaterality. Look, Mrs. Iriarte, every country advance will be from the deal, from the deal. You mention wanting to leave and that it is urgent, moreover, to leave. Look, I think the example has it in the brexit. It is not as easy, Mrs Iriarte, as going to Mexico and saying independence or saying we will be a republic. We live in a scenario of interdependence, and it will always be necessary to agree; internal agreement and also agreement with the other party. The unilateral path you claim to be defending is not such. You always have to negotiate and agree, and even get out, Mrs. Iriarte. Therefore, if we are to end up talking, negotiating and agreeing, will it not be better to do so from the outset? Speaking of the future, apart from what will be done, it's important to determine how it will be done, and I'd like to say something about it too. I will defend the principles I have alluded to with firmness, with an open will to interview and to make a treaty. That's how we operate our government strategy. That's our strategic bet. This point of view is not merely a tactic, a method of understanding political activity and institutions, but a way of understanding the people requires that they should be informed that it is best for society to continue by agreement. In plural society, and in parliaments without absolute majority, the solutions are better. We have to strengthen this political culture that is natural to Eukata. The general elections will, yes, change the current parliamentary representation, but the elections will not in themselves solve the major outstanding problems. After 28 April, a majority agreement on agreed solutions will continue to be necessary, and I assure you that I will continue to promote this path with firmness, constancy, patience and determination. It is the way of progressive national and social construction. And I'll give you today's example. You have said that Euskadi, Euskal Herria, is more than the Autonomous Community, says it in its justification. Okay. Today, after this plenary session, I come to the Euroregion Assembly in Iruñea, and our strategy is to move forward in a process of relationship and institutional integration thinking about the future of Europe. We look at Europe, not just the state. We call for the institutionalization of regions with legislative capacity and will move forward on that path. Our future is Europe built from the sum of its national plurality and social diversity. It's our bet and opportunity. So that in this world and in this historical moment we can live and go on together, Mrs. Irrea, it is essential that we should encourage the difficulties and try to do it together. According to this header, I will make up for the future position whatever it is, and from April 28 I will hold this proposition. On the 26th of May, for instance, the elections of nations, of historical countries, and of Europe will be the elections of Europe, and I will defend the five principles which have been advanced. That is, I think, the most realistic, useful, and effective alternative to the needs of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u43	Thanks again. Mr. Urkullu, I'm not pitonis, I don't want to be, and I don't want to ask you for any special announcement. But there are so many and so many variables placed on the table that we can foresee what conditions it can be, and above all we have some recipes that have been used before, and the agreements that have been made before this time, what results they give us in the course of 40 years. And maybe there's time for other recipes to run. I'll repeat it. There is, I think, a state which, as I have said, has failed in Spain, which has erred democraticly, but has also erred in other respects. But then you wanted to get in there something I didn't say and it was a one-way road. I didn't say that, so I've done a lot of work in this legislature to get certain principles and principles together. And if we lead these principles and principles forward, the way will be agreed. That will be different from what we have hitherto had, because it will set up an equal relation to the state. And that's what EH Collect wants for the first stage. We should see him in a second stage or in a third. But this may be the place where dreams are said to be, for if they do not say and do not speak, they may always be unsatisfied. In any case, Mr. Urkullu, I've listened to you closely, as I always do, and I have a feeling. I'd like to say something about your surferty. But I believe the time has come when, seeing the messages we are receiving from Spain, it may be that the surfboard is not the best thing for us to do in this sea, and that another will come after a wave, and perhaps another stronger will come. Perhaps it will be the step we have to take to another calmer sea, and perhaps we will need a boat to operate on that calm sea. It's a serious situation, and we can't hide from the people that it is. And, as I have told you, the waves-and the waves-I do not think we could spend all our energy leaving the waves alive-I think we ought to take other measures. The Basque Country has been for many years the laboratory of Spanish repression, many of them believe; and now they're using what's been prepared here and what's based on lies in Catalonia, but here it has been the laboratory. And since you have mentioned your attitude to the violence of this people, and the violence which it has experienced, we shall remember that the anniversary of the disaster in Pasadena, even in these days, would require a certain knowledge and a certain consideration. And I'm telling you, the lab was the Basque Country. If the Catalan has done something now, it has left that lab in the light and stripped the state. But I think nobody's free from anything. No, at least, the Basque People, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, not even the citizens we represent, and that's what matters to me. But neither the Populous Party nor the Social Party, with the ultra or superults that have been introduced to them at the present day from the back door, have things at all clear; or the Socialists of the Party, or whether they sometimes doubt whether they are constitutionalists or not. Creo, señor Urkullu, que el altar de la unadad de España exige cada vez mayores sacrifices. And that they have made a great monster, and will demand greater sacrifices and greater sacrifices. And that's why I've missed something in your words that I've brought. A defense for a new state of Parliament. I believe that this agreement may take place in another way, agreed and settled. I'll remind you that the last transfer transfer transfers were for the present time, too, for March. It is perhaps ten days or so, but we have not yet seen it, and know the consequences which this relation has given us. I think that we have to choose other ways of doing this by the dialogue, Mr. Urkullu, I have never denied it, but that it is our duty to make a treaty and decision between the democracy and the people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Sulpher Look, Mrs. Irriere, in my first part, I've tried to explain a strategy and an integral model for action, which has five principles, and a guide of criteria. You doubt this example; perhaps you think it voluptuous, because conversation will find no answer on the other side. However, you offer no alternative except that of departure. What is the alternative, Mrs. Irart? It was the departure, as you wish, that you proposed. I don't know where the connection is between the will and the wish that is not democratic and the participation in the elections of a state that will not be democratized. What's the alternative? Look into the world. And what is the discussion in international politics or in European Union? There are two ways: to work together, or to make every one a part of it; to work a bargain, or to make a one-sided decision. What's the way? What is the road to the state or the political state of Catalonia? It is evident that the wager for conversation, political negotiations, and agreement has no alternative in the world, or in Europe, or in Europe, or in the state, or in the Eukadin; much less in the plural communities, and still less in the laws which have not the whole majority. But I'll tell you something else: Even if the majority is complete, conversation and negotiation and agreement make it a better strategy. I believe that what you come to say is that political negotiation is a valid strategy only when favourable conditions are given, only when it serves to win. However, when conditions are unfavourable, this strategy seems no longer useful and needs to be changed to a tax strategy. And the question is, how? How do you think your idea can be opened up without reaching agreements? Your alternative is actually unworkable. Without reaching agreements, not only between us, but also without reaching agreements in the Spanish State. Look, compare the strategy that the abertzale left has followed in recent decades and the strategy that most of this society has followed. From the transition to today, Euskadi has been through very unfavourable and very unfavourable times. The Basque Government's strategic stake has been the progressive construction since the dialogue, the negotiation and the agreement. And I believe that we must recognize that much has been achieved and built, and that it has been possible thanks to a strategy based on moderation, firmness in principles and determination. And I'm not talking about castles in the air. I am talking about what has been built, I am talking about what has been achieved, I am talking about the institutionalisation of the country that we have built, and I am talking about an institutionalisation that is looking at the state, but which is also looking at the European Union. Over the next 40 years, this strategy will continue to bear fruit in more or less unfavourable circumstances. So, Mrs. Irritart, I think it was a positive course for the last 40 years. The means of building a society and a nation has been positive, and I believe that the course to which it is now to be discussed must be directed. Look at Europe. Look at Europe. There is no other way, there is no other way. Euskal society is plural, and this variety of ours is an opportunity to promote life, and to continue to build a more advanced nation. Thank you, and thank you, Mrs. Irart, for the opportunity you gave me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpation, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, member of the Podemos team, was committed to the president to push politics against climate change." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Mr Lehendakari, the activist, the 15-year-old Greta Thunberg, who at the last Polish climate summit last December questioned all the world's leaders on the subject of climate change, said a phrase that will somewhat summarize my appeal today. He said, "We can't solve a crisis without treating it like a crisis." And the reality is that we are facing a climate crisis, a global crisis, and our group cares – and I personally – about what response the world's leaders give to this crisis. And you, somehow, are a leader. He's the leader of this country. That's why I listened to him very carefully at the last "Change the change" conference, which took place in March. What did he say about this question? You said we have to change the trend of climate change, which is an emergency. You said that in Euskadi we want to be forward-looking, that we act with facts, that we have a shared and urgent commitment, and you also said that it is our desire to give the new generations a better future. I, Mr Lehendakari, would like to believe your words, and yet the facts of this legislature do not go with those words. What we have seen in this law is that nothing has been done about the change of climate. A law for the climate change you promised, and you didn't present it, it's not ready. A law about permanent motion you promised, and you didn't present it. You have also introduced a law concerning the temporal support, but we have seen how this law came to pass, and how it came out of the legislature. You insisted that employment is the principal object of this legislation, and we agree with it. Employment has to be one of the objectives, the objective; you have made it the objective of this legislature. The question is why it has not linked employment and the future. Why haven't we linked employment and climate change? Combating climate change. You were no longer at the conference last March 6th, when Lord Nicholas Stern, the British economist, said that "action against climate change will generate 65 million jobs in the world." And the question is where you're going to create them. Are they going to be created here, in Euskadi, or are they going to be created somewhere else? Where are they going to be created and where are they going to lose jobs? So we have a need to give an urgent answer to this question. And at the "Change the change" conference, 600 expert people gathered, most of the scientific world, who came to reveal their impotence. Impotence for the gravity of the data already known, impotence for the indolence of governments, and the slowness with which the changes are being implemented. I know that your government and yourself are not negatists like other world leaders, logically. But in the face of negationism, in the political world, the behind-the-scenesists are imposing themselves. Greta Thunberg, in her speech last December, said: "We have run out of excuses and we are running out of time." The vice president of the International Panel against Climate Change, Debra Roberts, in October 2018, when she presented her report on the real state of climate change, came to say something like "the years that we have left from here to 2030, 12 years, will be the most important in history." 12 years, that's what we have left, two or three legislatures. And the point is, what we'll do in these two laws. Because we have to establish measures, and we must set up measures in society, economy, and our lives. We have two or three legislatures to legislate the legal, economic and administrative measures we need, to implement them and to enforce them. And that will necessarily mean winning resistance. Winning resistance at the social level, at the business level... That's going to require pedagogy, awareness-raising, awareness-raising... And here in Euskadi, what we have right now is a vicious circle of lack of political leadership in climate change, lack of awareness and awareness and a more than obvious institutional inaction. You don't propose anything from the government here. And since people don't ask, no one does anything. And we're moving in that circle. We're moving in that circle. I said no one asks for it, but last Friday, we saw it here, in Basque, in the world, young people are asking for the future, responsibility, and answers. From this vicious circle in Euskadi we can only go out with institutional leadership, with political leadership, and that is what I will demand today in my inquiry to you. Look, I'm not going to tell you who the problem is, but in Euskadi, when you ask people about how important the problem of global climate change is, we have 12% of people who say it's a world-class problem. When we ask them if it is in Euskadi, it only says 1%. We are aware that nothing is going to happen here, that nothing is going to happen here, and it's a mistake, it's a mistake. And it's a mistake, especially, because as Greta Thunberg said in her speech... She said, "You say you love your children above all – and this also appeals to me – but you are stealing your future from your own eyes, and we have come here – Greta Thunberg said – to let you know that change is coming, whether you like it or not." And that also begs me, it asks you, it asks all the members of this House, because the 15 to 25 year olds are being left with the worst possible scenarios on a social level, on an economic level... We're leaving the worst scenarios and they're going to have to deal with that, in Euskadi too. In Euskadi the risk of heat waves compared to the 20th century will increase by 7 or 12%. The risk of flooding the rivers will affect... the highest risk will affect 80% of the municipalities. The risk of sea rise is increased by 20% for the 58 coastal municipalities. These are data from his Government recently published in January this year by the Department of the Environment. I don't know whether you or Mr. Arrian will answer me, I don't know who will answer me. But the question is not to give it to me, but to the young ones what we answer. Because they're young people asking questions now and they're young people who want answers. And what they want is commitment and leadership. Young people want answers, they want answers from their Government and they want answers from the political class in general; of all the groups we are in this House, I will not assign that responsibility exclusively to them. And, as I said, we have to bear in mind that we have two legislatures left and we have to turn the need into virtue. I propose that Euskadi tackle a process of information, awareness-raising and social and business participation as has not been done before, which will help to enrich the unanticipated preliminary draft of climate change, so that the next legislature becomes the legislature of the fight against climate change. That we be able to use our powers and self-government to design the legal and fiscal tools we need. And that we be able to set in motion our institutional framework to design those urgent, comprehensive and cross-cutting country policies that we need to adapt our economy, decarbonize our society and meet the Paris goals. It is urgent to do something, and this is our proposition and our support from our group. This is our proposal, and we're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Becerra, I'll get back to you. I'm not a negationist, nor do I just let things go. And I answer him, because I remember that I have a personal commitment, also as lehendakari, taken even and reflected in the presidency of the international sub-state bodies at COP21 in Paris. A co-presidency that Euskadi held with South Australia and Quebec. You mentioned the international conference "Change the change" organized by the Basque Government, Mr Becerra: how can we not be concerned if we, or co-organised, have organized the international conference "Change the change"? And that conference is the framework in which we have been able to see that the effects of climate change are global in scope, and it has also allowed us to contrast the policies we are developing in Euskadi with those of the most advanced countries in the world. It has also allowed us that opportunity or possibility. And it has been a high-level conference, of high political, academic and social interest, because we share the same goal: to contribute to changing the trend of climate change. We share it from the Basque Government. We are aware that Euskadi is a small country with a very small weight in global emissions, and I could take refuge in the risks you mentioned, also mentioned in the studies published by the Basque Government itself in January, on the excuse that it is a global phenomenon and that, well, it's not so much our responsibility. No, we are all responsible, indeed. And that is why, although a small country with a very small weight in global emissions, we have long been aware of the problem of global warming and have begun to take action for its solution. And good proof of this is the Basque Climate Change Strategy-Klima 2050, which sets out structural and also urgent measures, comprehensive and cross-cutting measures. Euskadi's commitment has been accredited at this international conference and also with the celebration of the "Cash Week of Climate Change", with actions of all kinds throughout the Basque territory. I would also like to recall that our Government prioritizes 15 country objectives. Obviously, the first pillar of our government programme is economic recovery and employment generation. But that does not prevent us from setting 15 country goals, in addition to 4 country challenges. And, prioritising 15 country targets, one of them is precisely the 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 next year. The energy transition is a priority in public policies and our challenge is to move towards carbon neutrality. This is to reduce emissions to the amount that can be reabsorbed and, in turn, propose actions to increase the resilience of the territory. In fact, we assume as our own the goal of the Basque economy reaching 2050 with neutral carbon emissions. The commitment to the environment and the fight against climate change is growing in Euskadi from the bottom up and from the bottom up of municipal action. We have a territorial and local strategy, Udalsarea 2030, the Basque network of sustainable municipalities, which has 75 municipalities making emission inventories, and 50 localities developing specific mitigation and adaptation programs to climate change. We know that more local input means more global sustainability. So, Mr. Becerra, he's been doing this tour for years, and the Euskons and corporations have been offering the results. They've been effective in several areas. I'm going to highlight three initiatives introduced to Congress itself: social consciousness has increased, though it is still small, fluids have been diminished in the time of economic growth, and the retractable energy has spread. The social consciousness is increasing and 90 percent of the population know the problems with climate changes. It's 14 points more than 10 years ago. Euskati has shown that it is possible to rise in the economy, and at the same time to diminish the fluids. For 10 years Escal economy has risen 65% and leaks have descended 18%. With respect to the latest consumption of energy, the following development has occurred: He went up to 14% of 8%, 2016. We know and accept, Mr. Becerra, the aim of Europe. I think it's more than 30% to 2030. So we have a long way ahead of us, but I think the direction is good, and the results we've achieved have been positive, but we have to go deep. The fight against climate change has been developing in this country for years and, although it may seem to some people that nothing is ever enough, I invite you, in any case, to acknowledge the progress, because I can assure you that it is not hard for me to recognize that we have a long way to go. But we don't start from scratch. Please acknowledge that the Euskadi Climate Change Profile Report, published this month, presents a panel of 50 key indicators to assess and improve our climate change policies. And we haven't left from scratch. Please also acknowledge that the Basque Country's Climate Change Strategy shows a 45% progress in its implementation in the first two years 2017 and 2018, or that our forecast continues to implement 100% of the actions by 2020. That we don't leave from scratch. Also recognise the 2030 energy strategy, which includes the objective of reducing CO emissions 2 , that we are moving forward and that this is, as I have said before, one of the 15 country objectives committed by this Government. Please also acknowledge that we have assumed the need to review this Basque Energy Strategy and bring it into line with the new objectives outlined by the European Union in its winter package last year. But I believe that we are not starting from scratch and I believe that we also need to recognise the momentum given to the circular economy in Euskadi, where the transition to this model plays a key role in achieving the climate goals, which we have made the diagnosis of the circular economy and which we have established the evaluation indicators that will lead us to have a Basque circular economy strategy in the coming months. I also believe that we do not start from scratch if we recognise that last month we passed the first Act on Energy Sustainability of Basque Public Administrations in this Parliament, to which you referred, also with your vote; that we recognize that work is under way to approve this Parliament the Basque law on climate change, although it has not yet been introduced, but that this work is under way. We don't start from scratch. And recognize that the Basque Country 2030 Agenda aligns the policies of the government programme and sectoral policies with the goals linked to the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, with particular attention to the thirteenth objective of climate action. I think it can also be said that we are not starting from scratch, if we recognise that the new land management guidelines, which are about to be adopted, incorporate the climate perspective, which they do so to anticipate from territorial and urban planning the changes arising from climate change. The aim is to minimise its impact on health, on human safety, on agriculture or on water, and also to anticipate impacts on transport and sustainable mobility, prioritizing proximity and accessibility. I therefore believe that we must not deny the evidence; that renewable energies are growing in Euskadi, but that we recognise that we still have to move forward; that emissions are being reduced in Euskadi, and yet we recognise that we must reduce them by 20% by 2020; that social awareness is spreading in Euskadi, but that we do recognise that we need to go further at this end. Therefore, Mr Becerra, we must continue to move forward, because we are moving forward, because we are moving forward, and we are going to do so from co-responsibility, but also with the ambition and urgency that society demands of us and, especially, as you have mentioned on several occasions in your intervention, the young generation, the youth. And in this sense, I think it is also important today to recognize the non-legislative proposals adopted in the past weeks in which we talked about the Basque pact, both in relation to what the energy pact is and what the climate change pact is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u51	First of all, I have to thank you for answering me. And I have to say that I do not consider you, of course, a negationist, as I have already said in my speech. I have contrasted the concept of negationism with backwardness. I find it very interesting that the main objective of the country is economic recovery, it is an issue that we share. And I have appealed to you why we do not link this economic revival with the future of the ecological transition, the energy transition, the fight against climate change. Why don't we make that link? Because if we approach it from a backward point of view This at the state level has been clearly seen with renewable energies: it was stopping renewable energies and they started making wind turbines and they started making solar plates elsewhere, and here we stayed with half of the business we had. I am therefore of course going to acknowledge that the Government is doing something. The problem is that in my speech I have made it clear that there is no time, that what the scientific world is telling us is that we are late, that we are late, that we cannot go to the tranternum to which we have gone. We have to give this an acceleration, because if we don't give it to it, there's no future. And that is why I appeal to your leadership for us to give you that acceleration in the next legislature and for us to lay the foundations right now. You told me we have the Basque Climate Strategy 2050 in Euskadi. That strategy was already done in July 2015, it has time; the targets are out of date, it should have had a follow-up report in 2017, which we have asked for, is not done; we have doubts about the data they are giving them right now about the actual emissions of the Basque economy. I mean, I recognize that you are doing something and you acknowledge that you are doing little, and then we will come to an agreement and see how we can resolve the issue. You mentioned, and you said well, that they were co-organizers, co-organizers of the "Change the change" conference. It seemed to me tremendous that a government like the Basque Government did not have the money to organize the conference exclusively and that it had to give Iberdrola the lead, because he put the money, and had to give the lead to Mr Sánchez Galán, who had nothing to say compared to Mr Nicholas Stern, so that he would give his usual empty speech. Greta Thunberg said that "our civilization is being sacrificed for the opportunity for a very small number of people to continue making huge amounts of money." The conference "Change the change" was an example of this: it was sponsored by Iberdrola, it was sponsored by Toyota, the world's largest car manufacturer, it was sponsored by FCC, which has built 8,500 kilometers of motorways, and we are leaving the action, the initiative in the hands of companies that do not believe, that do not believe in the future that represents the ecological transition. Moreover, now you must recognize that, despite the fact that there are policies on climate change that are being pursued, even in the interim, there are many other policies that the Government is developing that are exactly in the opposite direction that the fight against climate change requires. As far as waste is concerned, experts in the "Change the change" said that waste management accounts for 50% of industrial emissions; well, we have an incinerator that is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases in Euskadi and we are building another incinerator that is going to be the fifth. It's being built by the deputies, yes, but it's that the deputies are going on the one hand and the government is going on the other. In agriculture. Agriculture accounts for one third of all emissions; the forest policy we are pursuing is totally contrary to what should be followed if we are to tackle climate change. We are subsidizing charter flights from our airports with money from the Basque Government, for vacation. We're exercising an induced mobility, you've talked about DOTs, I hope DOTs are met. We're putting polygons in places where there's no one, we're putting shopping centers away from consumer centers, we're building empty highways, like the Supersur; also the deputies, with public money. And we are supporting a car industry whose future, curiously, is not being played out here in Euskadi; the future of the car industry is being played out in those cities that are already banning private vehicle access to urban centres. That's where the future is played.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u52	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. No denialist, no delayer, Mr. Becerra. To stop renewable energy: it would be worth a review or a reflection on what has happened in the past in Euskadi in relation to the programmes for the implementation of renewable energy, for example, as regards what has happened in the establishment of wind farms in Euskadi, and who has stopped the establishment of wind farms and the supposed consequence that it has also had for companies. In any case, in relation to renewable energies, I will tell you, man, we have a RIS3 of intelligent specialization, with three areas of intelligent specialization: one of them is that of advanced manufacturing; another is that of the energies, where we have renewable energies as one of the strengths within the scope of energies in that RIS3 of intelligent specialization, which is complemented by that of biosciences and that of health; and we talk about renewable energies, wind, photovoltaics, thermosolars, tides, undimotrics, and we have it as the second area of intelligent specialization between the three. He has made reference again to what the economy is, I have made reference to what the circular economy is and what the circular economy we make from this government is, and the priority bet for what the energy transition is, as I said in my first intervention, as a priority. So, recognize that we've done little? No, no, Recognise that we have to do more? Yes. And what should we do more among all of us diligently? Also, among all, and which we have signed, as parliamentary groups that support the Government, the pact reached here in previous weeks. Look, you have expressed your interest in the International Conference on Climate Change organized by the Basque Government, co-organized by the Basque Government. The main part of the co-organisation was the Basque Government and the Spanish Government. In any case, in this reference to the statements made by Nicholas Stern, a world authority and president of the Grantham Institute on Climate Change and the Environment. Well, I'll remind you of what Mr. Nicholas Stern also said at the same congress. And he literally said, "I recognize the leadership that the Basque Country has in the issue of climate change." This was also said by Mr Nicholas Stern, Mr Becerra. This is said by the first person who already addressed the issue of climate change from the economic point of view in 2006, and of course we are not satisfied and we are going to maintain our commitment. I do invite a reading and a reflection, also on our part, of course, as we are doing in the strategy of Klima 2050, and we can see that Professor Nicholas Stern's words in relation to Basque leadership in the fight against climate change are well-founded. So, Mr. Becerra, the international competition I've just mentioned has been a proof of Euscadi's engagement. In this Congress, we have developed a policy of climate 2050, which is where we're developing the initiative and the proposition that we're developing. We have to read them again? Again and again, of course I do. The small people are ours, but they are active and compromised, and I think even today they are remarkable. And there is no doubt that this compromise against environment and climate change is spreading. On the one hand, by combining public and private co-workers, I believe they must be connected, and on the other hand, starting from the foundation of the township, that is to say, the City Hall, the ultimate network of the most bearable townships, I have made mention of it before. We meet with the commitment we've made last week for this parliament. We're very happy to hear it, word for word. The survival of fossil resources, and the survival of climate change, is a priority and will be the public policy of the Eucommy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, by Guanche Suáz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief Governor of the Government and Autogony, the principal interest of children and teenages in all politics and especially in the fines of violence." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u55	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chief officers, good days to all. Erkoreka jauna, on May 17, 2018, was approved in this Parliament on the proposal of our group, a proposal that urged the Government to incorporate the best interests of children across all public policies. This agreement committed to a plan that you should have submitted since November in collaboration with the Ararteko, as well as with social and professional agents. It also urged the Government to incorporate this principle and concrete measures into the Machist Violence Act. It's March 2019 and there's no plan. That's why, what kind of a promotion is it taking for kids and teenagers to put their main interest in all the Euleganeics of the planet?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Guanche, there is no plan, but there is a bill here, already in the House, which contains the most effective, most powerful instrument that can be used to force all public policies to necessarily have to contemplate an impact assessment on childhood and adolescence. I am referring to a bill that already lays the groundwork for any product and project that comes out of the government – both the projects that are referred to the House and those that are directed directly to the Official Gazette of the Basque Country – all of them incorporate during their processing an impact assessment on children and adolescents that necessarily has to take into account the best interests of children. The bill is already in the House. But without the need for the bill to be implemented and processed, this is an issue already internalized within the Government, and the projects being processed already incorporate this forecast. I am not going to tell you about the pre-projects that are still in government phase; I could tell you about some of them that reflect, even, that higher principle of boys and girls, the best interests of boys and girls as the guiding principle of the law itself on the performance of the public administration. But there is another bill, also of a cross-cutting nature, that of the sanctioning power of public administrations, which contains a specific provision regarding the need that when the sanctioning file affects a person under age - I am literally saying this - "it must take into account the right that his or her best interests be valued and considered as paramount in all actions and decisions concerning him or her on any other legitimate interests that may concern him or her". Therefore, the rule is dealt with, is here in the law and there is a practice already established in the Basque Government, so that all normative products and drafts that come out of the Government must necessarily be accompanied by an impact assessment on children and adolescents, which is already being analysed in all the projects that come out of the House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u59	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. I'm sorry to say that we don't see the documents the same way. Yesterday I was lucky enough to be at the I International Children's Congress on the Move, and many experts talked about measuring the impact of public policies on children and adolescents and they all agreed on something: a matter of focus and will. You state today that there is will, and I ask you if you really consider that what you are doing is enough. Firstly, because, at least, it is different from what was agreed upon. There is nothing that can excuse the delay on such a crucial issue. I understand that you propose another way of doing this, but I had an agreement with this Parliament, an agreement that you are not complying with. A few months ago we should have been here a plan that does not exist, a non-compliance that is also based on the fact that in its day the groups supporting the Government did not want to share that this depended on their department, which causes us, at least, sadness. Secondly, because when I first started talking about political will, you actually include in the draft law provisions of a general nature, in article 13, a heading (h) which speaks and quotes textual: "To make an assessment of the impact on children and adolescents in the terms required by sectoral legislation". If we go to sectoral legislation, what we have is the application of the children's law, not in all laws. Of course, we will be vigilant, but we hope that this measurement and cross-cutting of the impact on children and adolescents of all public policies will be made in line with the agreement. We will continue to wait for the plan to which he committed, because it is, of course, what the expert agents demand, it is what is needed and it is what we were pushing this Government to do. In principle, that plan had to have more visions beyond the Government. We know that they are amending the Child Care Bill. And, of course, we are going to make all the contributions that are in our hands as opposition, but we believe that what has been included in that draft law of a general nature is limited or not sufficient, or may run the risk of leaving children back in the box of sectoral policies. And we urge, and from our work of impulse, of course, we will be vigilant and proposing, so that this does not stay in that drawer and truly become transversal, because we believe that the agreement we reached in his day was a step forward. We hope that you, as the Government of the common good, will be able to comply with that agreement, and we hope that you will bring us, if not a plan, at least a detailed compliance that we will request in writing. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Guanche, indeed, I know that resolution to which you refer, which contained a unique formula, let us call it that, of governance within the Government for the articulation of a measure that was intended to be of a cross-cutting nature. Among other things, it was said that the Government had to do this in collaboration with the Ararteko. But, look at the first contact that the department that I chair with the Ararteko had with him, because logically the Ararteko told him what he had to say, that he is not to collaborate with the government, but to control it and to subject to scrutiny his activity. And that, therefore, he would do as he saw fit, but that he was not to cooperate. Look at what originally had that Parliament's agreement, which was agreed, indeed, but which envisaged a very original model of governance. What seemed good to the interlocutor of the Ararteko, with whom we had contact at that time, was that this should be articulated through precisely the reform of this law that is already here in the House. If this is not in force, it is because the House has not yet taken letters on the matter and has not printed to this bill which is already in the House the urgency that it surely has, so that, among other things, that to which you refer, can be collected. But, of course, the law speaks, indeed, of the sectoral law but it cross-references the requirement, because it establishes it for all the normative products that come out of the Government, for everyone, not only, yes, yes: that law, that bill regulates the procedure for the elaboration of all the general provisions, whatever the content they have. Therefore, it is no longer a sectoral law, it transverses the content, which was expressly reflected in the sectoral law, but it transverses it. From there, all public policies, because they all have to have some normative support, will necessarily have to rely on those reports. In the most effective way agreed with the Ararteko, to incorporate that forecast.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u62	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "Ask me, Joseph Ramon Becerlo Carolo, together with the parliamentary members of Podemos to the head of economics and the sub-governed department, the failed recalculation of the current Pulla soil of Eldero." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u63	Thank you. Head of Tap, good morning. In April 2015, the Eldero City accepted a partial plan of Pulla-Artet, driven by Sprill. On this plan, the soil of high agriculture was recalred to build an industrial site. The neighbors didn't want this plan, and now the Basque Chief Court has turned the plan back. My question is: Will you accept the verdict and cancel that plan?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u64	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Congress and chief officers, good morning. Mr. Becerra, first of all, you've asked me a couple of questions. The one is, first, whether we will accept this sentence, which has been given in some way, and the other whether we shall follow the plan or not. There are two of them. I'll say yes to the first and no to the second. But I want to make it very clear, why do you mention in some way what is said in this sentence, but you did not very well mention exactly what is said, and what remains to be destroyed and what is not. It's true that the jury says no to that recalcation, but it must be published very well what it says. And what the ruling of the TSJ says is that it alludes to formal flaws, to an administrative agreement that was adopted at the City of Elorrio in June 2015 and that referred to the final approval of the partial plan. The agreement itself is therefore annulled, but in no case is the requalification of the soil suspended or annulled. That in the first place. Why? Because we have to take into account, and for this Sprilur as a promoter of that industrial soil takes into account, and it is of particular relevance, what exactly that resolution says. And that resolution dismisses as inappropriate – and it is important – the arguments of the recurring party, precisely the neighbouring platform of Elorrio, which sought to question the legality and effectiveness of the detailed management, contained in the determinations of the partial plan. This administrative action is therefore formally annulled, but at the same time dismisses those arguments of the appellant. Therefore, to what I was wondering, I repeat: of course we will take into account what the TSJ says, but we will not give up, because the industrial soil is still valid, necessary and we will continue to promote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u67	You said, Mrs Tapia, and that's what I wanted to get to, that this floor is necessary. And, indeed, it is not. It is not, because here what underlies it is precisely why it has been fighting for almost 20 years to get a reactivation of an industrial project that has no need at all. In Elorrio there are a lot of hectares of industrial land in disuse right now: Fytasa, Lince, Forjas, Ibesa...; there are several hectares of land in disuse, and you have not contemplated it, go to the soil of high agroecological value, to try to requalify it. They don't need that industrial soil in Elorrio and they don't need it in general in Euskadi either. Look, just 10 kilometers away, or 15, there's Bergara. In Bergara you have the Larramendi polygon, with exactly the same 10 hectares that you want to requalify in Elorrio and you have it with a 6% occupation, and more than 5.5 million euros have been spent since 2010 that are there dead of laughter. Use that industrial floor. Why are they going to reclassify new soil if it's not necessary? We just heard the lehendakari. The new DOT sets out different soil policies, soil policies to reuse the existing industrial soil, the Durango PTP says the same thing, the Bizkaia Diputation says the same thing, and yet you are wrong to miss, to requalify a soil that is not necessary. Basically, what is underlying here is a waste of public resources that is taking place with the excuse of the need for industrial soil. In Pulla-Azkarreta they have spent more than 160,000 euros already in disputes. The soil was bought by the famous Antón Zubiaurre, the one who was dedicated to buying soil on behalf of Sprilur everywhere, even before an alternative report was made on whether or not it was necessary, and from there a huge ball has been generated in Sprilur, with more than 60 million deficits accumulated in the last 10 years, which has no end. You, today, have had to reduce after this sentence the book value of Pulla-Azkarreta from 4.5 million to 2 million, because right now with that sentence it has no value nor 2 million, right now it's worth 0, it's worth 0. And besides, it's not necessary, that is, even if they spend it and build it, it's going to be empty. So, my question is why they're doing that. Why don't you use this ruling of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country to change the dynamics that are being followed today? Change the direction of Sprilur, start reusing existing industrial land in the municipalities and stop spending the money unnecessarily on what is not going to have any use, neither has it now, nor has it had it before, nor will it have it in the future. Do not go against the neighborhood movement, do not go against the municipality and go in favour of another industrial soil management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u68	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u69	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Becerra, the point is that we're talking about a polygon or a land polygon. And in the end, what you want me to do is to discuss what kind of politics Sprailur makes with the earth, two different things, we could argue whenever you like. But Spairr does two things: On the one hand, the soil of manufactures already existing, have been rebuilt, restored, and set to work; and on the other hand, the lands of other kinds are prepared. And, as you know, we can't wait for the ground to begin with, because we'll be late, and we've always said that when it comes about that we have to keep the land prepared for it, otherwise it would be a detour. But the most important thing in this case, Mr Becerra, is that in this judicial decision, contrary to what is happening on other occasions, we allude, in addition to the form, to the fact that an administrative act is being resorted to and that an administrative act is being annulled, we enter into the substance, and in the substance the judicial decision does not mention that it is being done wrong, but that, precisely, it rejects all and each of the arguments of the recurring platform, which is not usual at all; it therefore enters into the form and the substance. What are we gonna do? Since we consider it important to have prepared soil, in addition to the existing one, we are going to restart the procedure, being absolutely scrupulous with each and every one of the necessary processes, with each and every one of the necessary procedures, the mandatory reports, the binding reports, and being, I insist, very scrupulous with each and every one of the actions to be carried out. And we have already introduced – and you know it perfectly well – the strategic environmental assessment document of that partial plan to restart the whole procedure, dated 15 November, in the City of Elorrio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, Juana de Bengoechea Espekal Group Member of Education on the new law of education." Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u71	From my seat, President, with your permission. We would like to ask the counselor what forecast she has to fulfill her commitment to introduce the new education law in this year of 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u72	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengoechea. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u73	Mrs. De Bengoche. On February 21st, 2017, Government Councils 2016-20 XI. he took notice of the programme of the government of the law, and made an agreement to send it to the legislature. As you are informed, and according to this system of government, our actions are placed in the following manner: the second column, human development, social integration, equality and quality public services; and the second strategic axis to ensure social equilibrium. 90th in engagement, strictly speaking of the new law of education, and in the second initiative speaking of words: a new project of the eucalyptic law of education, which, based on the agreement obtained, will form and strengthen us in the stability and quality of eucalyptic education, advancing to perfection in the next decades. A week later, on February 28, 2017, the Government Council accepted the legal program of this law, and sent it to the Basque parliament to follow the government's course. According to this calendar, the project of the Education Act was planned and planned to post it in the last quarter of this 2019. As you were saying, on the 28th of April, after the general elections are made, and in the 26th of May, the elections of the principal assemblies of Europe, councils, and lands, elections are limited to the end and limits of the institutional campaigns, and other actions. For this reason, as planned and planned, and not within the framework of restrictions of the electoral regulations for institutional campaigns during the electoral periods, it is a commitment of my Department to continue to take steps towards the implementation of the actions defined in the Government programme, to continue taking steps outside the external constraints that should in no case affect the fundamental projects, such as providing us with this new law that will help us to further advance and deepen the quality of the Basque education system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, thank you for your answer, and I am sure of your efforts to get the new law presented, but the days are passing and our group is beginning to think that we are going to walk very short by the deadline. And, bearing in mind that next year is a special year, since it will be what we usually call "an election year", we fear that this law may remain for next year. I don't want to be a bad bird, but we're starting to worry about that. We are beginning to worry about that, because, look, from the beginning of the mandate we knew the 15 days of the campaign of 26 May, that was something already known, the municipal ones. And we also have to take into account the generals – which have certainly happened – because the campaign is not going to be during the holidays, but it is going to be the more or less inactive days of Holy Week and Easter week, which does not seem to us to be a delay that should be very significant. I'll tell you why we have doubts and why we have problems. By September, I think there are 49 working days left, no more, less than two months, about a month and a half. Let's see, we are seeing how initiatives arise in this Parliament that our group is not joining, because it understands that they are initiatives that need to be discussed together with the electoral law; I mean the last of them, it has been an initiative of the EH Bildu group to create a paper. We said no, that's the electoral law. We are currently discussing an integral plan paper for distance education. Somehow that should also be incardinated in the debate on the new law. In this legislature, in education we have had common concerns that remain unresolved, which are the following: the structure of the Basque education system, the financing of the Basque education system, the attention to the specificity of pupils and the improvement in results and, therefore, excellence. I believe that these are four challenges that we all share and that there is no doubt that they have been tried to solve. But a decree is an instrument of the Government; a law is a legislative instrument of all who are here. We all want to put our grain of sand in order for it to be solved. Then, for our particular group, it is very worrying the incidence of demography in the system, the planning of the renovation of the centers taking into account that demography and, as you well know, the teaching of English. These are issues that we believe must be addressed in the law in one way or another. Our group is committed to participating in this and we believe that, of course, on the basis of decrees we can certainly govern, but the legislation is the responsibility of this Parliament. That is why our great concern is that we will not be able to discuss what this law deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u76	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengoechea. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u77	Mrs. De Bengoechea. As I mentioned in my first speech, we will continue to take steps to fulfil the commitments made with regard to the adoption of a Basque education law in the Basque Government, without undermining the necessary debate in this House, which will undoubtedly enrich the new framework of reference. And I do not believe that the current electoral calendar affects the work we are developing. In all these years, in Euskadi we have been guided by a single law of education, based on consensus, which constitutes the current pillar of the regulatory regime. As I say, Mrs De Bengoechea, we continue to take steps towards the new law. I would like to recall at this point that last October 22nd we brought to the Committee on Education in this House the document Agreement for Education: the basis for the agreement It is our obligation and our commitment to seize the opportunity to build on this agreement a new framework that will structure and strengthen the stability and quality of Basque education, advancing towards excellence in the coming decades. From the department we are working to fulfill the need to equip our society with a new law that responds to the current needs and future expectations of our people, a future law proper to education, that incorporates the inspiring principles and that structures our educational system. We have to build the system among all of us, so the system has to be based on agreement, and we have to take care of the system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the High Court of Jone, the parliamentary member of the EH Collectations to the head of the Board of Education against the problem of the school re-regation in certain districts of the Union." Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u79	Good morning, everyone. I've been in the different districts of the Union, and the citizens of Bilbo have given me a great deal of worry about their school, about San Francisco, Queens, and Oscany. What measures will the Board of Education take to prevent the segregation in the schools of certain neighborhoods in Bilbo?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u80	Thank you, signor. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u81	Chief of Parliament. A high field, ma'am, a special education of students is a complex phenomenon. It appears in several ways and he answers several factors. Behind them the geographical position of the schools, and the distribution of its population; the social and social structure of this population, the social and socilinistic features of this population, its cultural models and sociological processes. They are exposed at the time of the educational election, and at last they become a special pattern. So that challenge goes beyond the schools of education. We were committed to this challenge in the Board of Education. So in 2016, we set off to pay attention to immigrants. Plan (2016-2020), and now we've started a lot of actions. Last November, we came to an examination of the diagnosis on the education of foreign students, and with that we developed new measures. They strengthen our commitment to balance in the social constitution of the schools. Some of these new measurements are already in the plan-phase, and others are already set up. So, if you bring it here today, we've started an experienced pilot of information and orientation sites between the Department and the City of Yonkers. These are directed to the families, and to pay attention to the people at the Guildhalls. In like manner, also, it has been urged to promote the acts of equity. The following teams, first of all, are also directed to the districts of Bilbo, which you have named: Eleven Hand programs, education strengthen programs, education-up programs, Pathamate, professors to strengthen language, and programs of culture. Thanks to these interventions, there has been a great deal of progress in the last course of learning in the following treatments: in the atmosphere of life, in the degree of absence, in the motivation of the students, in the positive explanation of families and professors.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u83	You mentioned plans, investigations and things like that. I don't deny that you have good intentions, but it's my concern that these plans and those things don't come to the Bilbor, the investigations, but not the concrete things. In 2017, the Council Council of Bilbo sent this letter to you at the City of Bilbo. In this letter, Bilbon was said to be a great worry about this matter. There was great concern about the insufficient measures taken by the Administration to prevent segregation and the situation in the centres. Eta hau from the gutuna... Estantzunik ez. There's been no answer. The municipal group of Euskal Herria Bildu carried after this a motion to the Bilbao City Council to alleviate the possible effects of segregation, and your party, in addition to voting against, passed the ball to you, as now. And in the minutes of that plenary session, the Education Councilman said it was only up to his department to implement measures to avoid cases of segregation and watchfulness. It's on the record. I'm not making it up. The balls passed one another, and finally the only ones who were damaged at the last moment was the schools of some of the neighborhoods of Bilbo. I don't know about you, but I know the situation firsthand for at least three neighborhoods. Rekalde. Look, the school is completely stigmatized by a lack of support from the administration. Guraso-elkarterik ez dago, Eta Utzita dago Errekaldeko eskola. San Francisco. Even if there is a number of multiplicity according to neighbors, you don't put any means to that school. No dot dotais de los recursos que la rights de San Francisco necesita. And what about Otxarkoaga, where there is still only model A. Thus it is impossible to achieve inclusion and to achieve a diverse Bilbao, Basque, in which no one feels discriminated against. Its department and the homologous departments of Bilbao City Council do nothing, absolutely nothing, to improve the schools and, therefore, the most disadvantaged neighborhoods of Bilbao. But it's true that different associations in Bilbo are doing a lot of different jobs while things are changing, and I'll tell these associations, my parents, and all the people in the neighborhood: They can count on us. Why? Because Bildu believes in neighborhood schools and we will continue to bet on diversity and inclusion despite the inaction of his department.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u84	Thank you, signor. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u85	Mrs Goirizelaia, we are aware that, although these educational policy decisions go in the right direction, they will not be enough to reverse some situations of inequality or imbalance that are observed in some areas of Bilbao, as you have shown. Education must be accompanied by policies and initiatives of a more global and cross-sectoral nature. In addition, given that families with greater social vulnerability tend to settle in certain environments or neighborhoods – such as the neighborhoods you mentioned – the department considers it necessary to put forward comprehensive interventions aimed at these environments and enhance the collaboration of different services and professionals, as well as social entities. In point of fact, with the City of Bilbo, we've started the following initiative: We're developing a social and educational project from last year. We've started the Owacan, San Francisco and the Old Union High School students in the neighborhood, and we're taking part in the state of society and education, and we're engaged in providing a single strengthening of educational projects. Our engagement doesn't end there. We are ready to go on studying other ways and co-workers, to help our country with a more social panic. And finally, I'd be very grateful to keep education out of the election campaign, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "Ask me, Eva Lopez de Lariyabe Saez de Maturuna." The members of the community assembled to the head of the Board of Education concerning re-establishment of the decision of the schools." Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u87	Yes, good morning. Good morning, Mrs. Uriart. During the last few weeks we've found some contradictory reports in the papers and even in the rooms. In other words, they have suffered your incomprehensible resolutions in the schools. How are the dining rooms going to be handled from now on? You guys got plans from now on? Butrei, very simple: Why did the Board of Education turn back on the proposal for family dining-room service in the schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u88	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u89	President andrea. Madame Lopez de La Rochelle, around the dining room management model, in order that each public school might choose a way of managing its own dining room, by a delivery correction made in 2016 by this legislature, was asked to be intimidating work with the current operators of the Eucommy, the steps to be considered and determined. We've been working on that job for months. On December 15, 2017 a board of the Jant Rooms was formed with the representatives of all the operators. This committee wanted to have a share of reflection on the management of the schools and to reflect on the various administrative functions which are now in our classes. Besides, it was one of the other things that this committee had on the table, to use the product on it, at the school menus. So this committee has been working around the dining room management model and its produce. In it, every delegate has had the opportunity to explain his point of view, examine it, and suggest new models for the management of the dining halls. So also in the last meeting, on January 10th, the only model which he saw legally possible after the work he had done for the past year, was to be managed by his parents. And we need to make it clear that fun doesn't mean to change the pattern of the dining rooms, but to open a choice for those who are asking for another model, always a voluntary choice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u91	Thank you for your refusals, I dare say. We don't agree either in the bottom or in the shapes, and on top of that I come out a little worried. The lawman agreed to create a work-table for the changing of the food-rooms: you did not form it. Instead, you created a consulate table to change the pattern, a mesa consultiva. This Parliament proposes that a working table be set up, and instead of that working table, an advisory body is set up, but without paying attention to those consultations, which do last for months; the unilateral proposal for the management of AMPAs is made public, which is totally irresponsible in capital letters. Logically, the educational community is revealed, on strike, and the Government has to rescind. I'm asking what the next turn is going to be. I would even say stop dizzying, because a whole sector, the whole school community, workers, even the boys and girls who eat every day there, are being used to make dizzying decisions without a clear sense, and I would say contradictory. I ask again if you intend to continue to rule, if we have a plan, a plan B or if there is even a plan, something so simple. At the moment we have the whole community on the warpath and not just the community. Just a week ago, out there, all over the world, let's say, there was a student strike against climate change. But it's just that the Jantokis Jangelas Jantokis I'm very clear and we're very clear. It is true that we are talking about a model, but today we are talking about ways. And these forms should not be so, first of all, because there is no consensus, and because decisions are unilateral on the part of the Government. In definition, we'll wait to know what, when and how our children will eat. We'll wait to see how the decisions are made here. We ask him to be responsible, something that is always asked, well, I would also ask him to know how to listen, but not to act in a one-person way, nothing more than that. We are entering a new phase, it is urgent; the quality of food is quite poor, the quality of the working conditions of the workers also leaves much to be desired. In general, the situation of the school dining rooms is quite..., I would even say critical. We enter a new phase, it's time to change, you have it in your hands. And it is also a phase of negotiation, as it has been so far, but you call it a phase of debate and consensus. I hope it's not a sleeping pill to paralyze the entire community and to say it we're going to do it and we're going to do it right, we're going to do it ourselves. I hope that you will listen, that you will put on the table what you are asking for and, of course, that such measures will be taken. The moment of change in the dining rooms I would say it is here and now, but we need the opinion of the workers, of AMPA, ultimately of the whole educational community who are suffering it or who use it, as they please; if not, it will continue to tumble. Today morning we heard here that the waves were surfing, I hope you start surfing, go, from the top, but don't fall with the table below. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u92	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u93	He who will not understand will not understand. Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, as I indicated in my previous speech, the Department of Education has not taken any decisions unilaterally, but has opened up the possibility of new management models, as a result of the shared reflection within the framework of the committee set up. During the months since its establishment, the working committee has held numerous meetings at which they have analysed the experiences or proposals presented by various actors and bodies involved in this matter. The different experiences discussed have allowed the members of the committee to have formed a contrasted and objective opinion on the feasibility and possible benefits of the various models of management of the school canteens. Over the course of these months the commission has gathered the opinions, among others, of the Federation of Agricultural and Food Cooperatives of Euskadi, associations of rural development, associations like Food Justice, initiatives such as Gure Platera Gure Aukera, Jangurie or Berton Bertokoa, the pilot programs that are currently being developed in some public centers or companies that work in the field of catering for communities. The views of a number of public bodies, such as the Public Procurement Advisory Board, have also been heard to outline all issues relating to administrative recruitment, or the Department of Health, which is responsible for clarifying such key aspects as health control or food security. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. he continues to perform the example of the just governing management in the year, improved as far as he can, but he has no objection to those who wish to choose another standard, if they are always legalally compatible. At the last meeting with the members of the family of the EHIGE public network, thus agreed to continue working around the model of management, which we all saw the need of discussion. The department's will is therefore to continue to speak until we are agreed, and they will always find us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask you, you know, about Martíz, the lawmate of the Podemos to the head of the Board of Education, the provisional increase of the planning of the Ordizian Learning." Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u95	Yes, good morning. Ms. Orriart, last year, we asked you what your department would do with the change of school plan from the Ordizian University. Your answer was that in front of this change of planning the planor rejected this request. The educated science was an apprentice and would answer these ideas after following the criteria of the resolution and making the analysis of the school map. A year later we asked the same question and the answer to that change, to that request again by Jakintza ikastola has been the favorable provisional proposal to accept a new line for the 2019-2020 course, a further classroom in 4 years of Children's Education. What reasons justify such a decision?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u96	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u97	Chief of Parliament. Mr. Martínnez, the 2018-18 acceptance process began with the new Decretion Act 1/2018. This description, amongst other changes, states that the number of planned groups is conditioned by the number of classes, but not by the number of allowed rooms. In this process of 2018, two teams of science were planned for a three-year-old educational level of three, that is, he's got 50 and only 16 of them are available, because he has 34 students in a 2-year grade. But he got the order of 29 on the 3rd-year-old floor, over the 50 he planned out on the tops of the 13th class. The reason why these new demands for three years are revealed is that there is a 2-year-old room of science and Urdan and the two-year-old rooms in the public school. The centre already anticipated this situation, and in November 2017, in time and form, had requested an increase in planning in order to accommodate all requests. As you indicate in your justification, the application was provisionally dismissed. He submitted allegations and in March 2018 he was definitively denied again. The report of the management of centres and planning stated: "It is not appropriate to change the planning of Jakintza ikastola, since it would increase the imbalance between the two existing centres in Ordizia, nor that of the public centre so as not to create excessive free places only in the public centre. However, if the demand for Jakintza ikastola persisted in subsequent exercises, this decision would have to be reconsidered by increasing the number of groups." In November, the centre again requested the change in planning, increasing for the 2019-2020 a group at the level of 4 years, since in the municipality there are over 120 pupils at that age, which gives to plan six classrooms in the municipality, and another group at the level of 3 years, since it is expected that the same will happen as in the previous year, because at this age there are also enough children to plan another six classrooms in the municipality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u99	Mrs Harper, don't disguise reality. There are allowed classes, classes planned, classes of covenanted classes, and what's going on is that we've got more and more compact systems of our school systems. That's what's happening. It is a complex issue, they are different concepts, similar, orders, complex decrees, which hide an increasingly unequal access to education in these enrolment processes. In this case we have Ordizia, we recently had the case of Álava, where more irregularities occur and favor; the case of Álava, with that shameful last-minute change, that privilege to concerted education and that favor to school segregation. Steilas reported irregularities in the registration of 2018 and 2019 in Ordizia, the decree was not complied with and the order, its own regulations, which you came to read to us one morning in this Parliament; you draw up it and you are not complying with it. And each course is the same, in January it is registered, and if there is at one level and in a model more requests, they are barred. That's what happened in Ordizia, and he was barred and another center was awarded, in this case in Lazkao. But, then, what happened, Mrs. Uriarte, so that if Jakintza had 50 places in Children's Education and there were 11 more applications, they were barred to go to the Ikastola San Benito de Lazkao, and then we asked and the answer is that they ended up enrolled in Jakintza de Ordizia? What happened at that interval? And you know what the consequence is? The one you have also said, that this territorial planning commission has provisionally authorized that additional room, when there was a place in Ordizia and there is still a place in Ordizia, there are 119 places in Ordizia and 115 requests. The studentship is in line with the planning, to those five lines currently existing in Ordizia. What happens is that they're not enrolling in public education, that's what's going on, and that's what needs to be prioritized. And I'm warning you that we're going to be on top of this case and that you don't make one more class, especially if there's room in public school, and in this case we're talking about Ordizia. Because if Jakintza had 12 more applications and she had, as she said, barred herself to Lazkao, there was room, as I say, to place them in the village, in Ordizia, in the public school and there was no need, as she said at the beginning, for more lines in Ordizia. The problem is another, and you said it before, about segregation. He knows the school segregation data in Ordizia: in the public school he has gone from 15% to 37%; the concertation has gone from 6% to 6%. That's the reality of Ordizia, that's what the data hides.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u100	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u101	I'm marinez jauna. In answer to your question, as I said before, in November, the school insisted that you change into planing again, with a group of 2019 to 2020 classes added to four years of year and another group added to the third year's level. In December 2018, on a provisional basis, it is decided to increase planning at the 4-year level to Jakintza ikastola, so that there are three groups in Jakintza and three others in Urdaneta, with free places in both centres, but it is not allowed to increase at the 3-year level, to which Jakintza resorts. According to what the Director of Learning and planning declared in the registration of the Ordria, the birth rate of the Ordiria, has been the reverse of what has happened elsewhere in the Union. In the town, as shows in the 3rd and 4 years of study of 2019-20, there are six rooms enough to fill up the plate, so the school proposed having three lines and the Urdands three more. Otherwise, we could maintain the balance of the village, because the two rooms of the school were full and the square was deserted, and the Urdaneta would have four rooms and 12 free squares. The result is that all external license requests would go to the Urals with the thoroughness of the balance. In March 2019 it is decided to change the planning also for the level of 3 years, so that six classrooms in the municipality, with free places in the two existing centers, are planned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "Intertermination by the lawmen of the Basque Groups of Carmelus Barrius Barroja, the head physician of the Medical Department, the function of pharmaceuticals and the professionals of those parts." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u103	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning again, all of you, counselors, counselor. Well, Mrs Murga, I would like to greet you and wish you all the luck of the world in your new work; of course, you will have in people like me, in parliamentarians like this humble servant, collaboration for whatever it takes. We are going to go directly to talk about the pharmacy, in this case of an absence that we have valued, the absence of the pharmacy and the important work, more and more, of the community pharmacy, of the pharmacy office in the attic with primary care, in the attic with the health system, with the collaboration with medical care, in short, with primary care. We have seen, after having been prepared by the department, recently, now, in February of the same year, a few weeks ago, a strategic document on primary care. We have seen and we have also coincided with the sector, which has moved us some, well, discomfort or... Let's see how we can fix it, that's what this is about, in relation to that lack of collaboration, or that lack of integration of the pharmacy. We are talking about the primary care pharmacy, but logically, in the pure sense of technicality within the document, but we have missed more actions or strategies, even strategic lines in relation to the pharmacy and its role within primary care and patient care. I mean, there was something else missing, from our point of view, we'll see how they analyze it from their department, the Department of Health, but I think some strategic line could have been pointed in that direction. That is, we are constantly seeing how the experts are talking, within what is the management of the pharmacy, of the community pharmacy, of the pharmacy office, of the greatest role it is acquiring every day. In a process and in a situation, in a reality of aging of the population, when there is more and more treatment of people with chronic conditions, when we talk about adherence to treatments, information, prevention, the role of the pharmacy, of the pharmacist, connects precisely in an essential way with those needs that also have to develop primary care and professionals, which primary care establishes in these lines of assistance to the population. That is, the paper, the February 2019 document, Euskadi Primary Care Strategy That lack of integration in a somewhat more effective and strategic way also the role of the Community pharmacy, and I suppose we will have the opportunity to continue to propose it in this Parliament, in that analysis that we are doing and that schools and pharmacists have also done in relation to a small dissatisfaction or great dissatisfaction, depending on where it is looked at. Moreover, since the Government itself, in its recent reply not a week ago, from Mr Darpón himself, that is, from the department, to this parliamentarian, where it said that the community pharmacy is an accessible healthcare agent and close to the patient, that is all the more reason. Close, accessible, close to the patient, that is, fundamental element that connects with the needs of primary care in an essential way. Well, we have seen, preparing the initiative, how experts, expert organizations, international associations of pharmacists or experts working here at the university, how they value the community pharmacist, who has a lot to contribute to this assistance challenge, in a coordinated work with the rest of the health professionals, family doctors, nursing professionals, of other types of activities. And, in this regard, both in public health and in primary care, they are perfectly integrated into what are these needs and that demand that they be more and more present every day. We have also seen this very clearly in recent days that the European pharmaceutical group was celebrating recently in Spain, and we have been talking about it. Experts from the World Health Organization's European Observatory on Health Care Policy Systems, and in relation to improving primary care to respond to these health problems, talked about the role of pharmacists, how they are consolidating themselves into functions, in the areas of health promotion, chronicity, to understand that they have an essential role in hand also with the needs that primary care presents. Those are some of the issues. The primary care document and strategy is there, just out, which I know in mid-February. We have received, we have collected that absence or dissatisfaction, because it could have been established in a more strategic way or in a way... In any case the department will tell us what its intentions are, the role of the community pharmacy and the pharmacist in relation to that responsibility that it also has in promoting health, information, prevention and participation. We are seeing day by day how pharmacists are increasingly involved in Europe, and in many countries such as France, in matters that have even to do with vaccination, even with issues where they have not yet assumed that role, but which do integrate perfectly into what primary care is. That is, something else can be blacked out in the strategic documents submitted by the Government. There are experts who talk about the role of community pharmacies sectorally, in the control, for example, of respiratory diseases, a relevant role in relation to some issues that have even to do with early diagnosis, with detection, with smoking disorders, with the follow-up of chronic patients, with training. In other words, there is, and we have seen, an interesting work in this regard by university specialists on this subject, how they – and they were doctors, they were not pharmacists – entangle the role of the community pharmacist with the role of care and health care, in this case primary care. In any case, Madam Counsellor, I remain with you for your explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u104	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u105	President Andrea, legebiltzarkideok, Sailburuak, Barrio jauna, eskerrik asko guztioi for the disposition of everyone on this first day, thank you, bihotz-bihotzez. In answer to the question you have asked me, Mr Barrio, I will begin by pointing out that I share with you that the pharmacy and its professionals play an essential role in the care of people's health. On more than one occasion we will have heard us defend that for us, the Department of Health, pharmacy is a fundamental element in the overall quality and efficiency of the health system. In fact, in Euskadi we have been betting for years on a model for the management of pharmaceutical delivery that puts in value the community pharmacy and its integration with the rest of the agents of the health system, in coordination with primary care, with hospital care and with social services, also in line with the Basque social health integration strategy and through the development of pharmaceutical care programs that bring value. Thus, in Euskadi we have been pioneers in the development of such programs with the official schools of pharmacists and with the pharmacy offices since the early 1990s. In them, we started the implementation of health education programmes, public health campaigns and programmes of a more caring nature through specific conventions. They will allow me to briefly review the agreements through which, from the Department of Health and the official pharmaceutical schools of the Basque Country, we have been collaborating, because they demonstrate the importance that we have always attached to pharmacies and their professionals as leading health agents in the Basque Country. I will go back to May 1995, when the Department of Health signed a partnership agreement with the official schools of pharmacists for the prevention of AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, which is still in force and fully operational today. On 18 February 2009, an annex to the above-mentioned convention was signed, the aim of which was to conduct a pilot test to assess the desirability of facilitating the population's access to the rapid HIV screening test through the pharmacy offices. The evaluation of this pilot test was favorable, and there are currently 50 pharmacies participating in the program. More than 1,800 tests of this type have been carried out in 2018. In addition to this convention, which enjoys a high social assessment, the first collaboration agreement between the Department of Health and the official schools for the supply of methadone through the pharmacy offices to people dependent on opiates was also signed in December 1995. Since then, this agreement has also been extended annually, and its continuity has already been signed for this year 2019. Furthermore, on 25 February 2009, the partnership agreement between the Department of Health and pharmaceutical schools was signed for the improvement of the use of medication in persons assisted by home help services. This is a program clearly aligned with the strategies of old age, chronicity and dependence, as well as with socio-health coordination. It is a clear example of the integration of the pharmacy office as one more agent of the health system in coordination with social services. And, in fact, right now we're looking after 844 people in 361 pharmacy offices. And in this framework of agreements and collaboration, I would also like to highlight a fourth agreement that is working very well, and that we started in October last year, with a pilot program in patients who have or suffer from type 2 diabetes. The aim of this programme is to improve the use of medicines and the health outcomes of chronic and polymedical patients through comprehensive drug-therapeutic care, enhancing the care role of community pharmacies as health facilities, and strengthening communication channels among health professionals at different levels of care through ICT. This is a pioneering initiative which has made a significant technical effort, but which I believe, and I am sure that Mr Barrio will agree, that this is an important action to make progress in improving the health of people since the joint effort and collaboration, in this case, of people suffering from diabetes. It's obvious that the role of pharmaceutical is indispensable to people's health, we've always had that. That's why we've made a clean bet for our modern model, which values community armor, along with the rest of the health system's operatings. In fact, we've been a pioneer in that union between the department and the pharmaceutical. Several undertakings could be given as examples in the prevention of the AIDS, in the division of the metadon, connected with diabetes, or in improving the use of the botics. And no doubt we shall continue to advance in that direction. In fact, in order to strengthen our primary attention with this intention, our strategy offers a special part of the pharmaceutical. As you have seen, many years of collaboration and joint work have already taken place. However, in the Department of Health we continue to make progress in this direction, and, as Mr Barrio has pointed out, in the strategy for strengthening primary care, which we have recently presented and which I hope will soon be able to present in detail in this Parliament too, we have devoted a special section to pharmacy, a special section which proposes concrete actions. At the Primary Care Advisory Council itself, one of its members is a primary care pharmacist. Thus, within the framework of this general primary care strategy, this strategy has seven lines and 35 actions to improve and enhance the service provided by primary care, and that includes the pharmacy. Currently in Euskadi we have a good model of primary care, effective, viable and well valued by Basque society. But we are also aware that it needs to be strengthened, and for that reason, the strategy we have been developing and discussing with different actors in recent months raises an increase in resources, an increase in staff, an increase in investment for the modernization of centres and an increase in resources for the updating of technological systems. In the organizational sphere we are implementing measures to debureaucratize the task of doctors and nursing staff, so that they will devote as much time as possible to patient care. And, in line with the strategy, we are working on the agenda model to make it easier for professionals themselves to better organize their work. Also, in the near future, nursing staff will have the option of indicating, using and authorizing the dispensing of medicines and medical devices, which will improve the efficiency of the health system. In this context, we also propose to address the functions of primary care pharmacists by incorporating new functions resulting from integrated care into already consolidated functions. As stated in the strategy, the functions of the primary care pharmacist complement those of the team members and are shown to have a great impact on the drug-therapeutic follow-up of patients, especially in the prevention of negative results associated with medication, thus contributing to a safer and more efficient use of medicines. Therefore, as you see, Mr Barrio, indeed, the pharmacy has always had and will have a very important role, not only in the area of primary care, but in the whole Basque health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u107	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your explanations. And yes, we share that pharmacy and pharmacy professionals have that essential role in people's health, very important, very important, logically. And, in addition, recognizing the value of their role. We see that in the document on primary care – I repeat what I said before – there is a deficit, because it is actually spoken, not in a strategic line, but in points, it is spoken of primary care pharmacists, logically; it is integrated into the system and works together with doctors, with nursing staff. But in any case, we were talking about the essential role of the general pharmacist, that of the pharmacy office, the community pharmacist in this document, because it has an essential collaboration in relation to primary care, and in relation to the rest of the strategic lines discussed, of the equipment; the role of the nurse, the role of family medicine, the pediatric care, indeed, the whole role of the community pharmacist, apart from the strictly primary care pharmacist who has his job and function. We are talking about the great social, care and closeness function with the patient that you yourselves recognize in the community pharmacist, within these lines. That's why we miss a little... We are aware, of course, of the involvement of community pharmacists, pharmacists and pharmacists who have pharmacy offices, how they are always thinking about renewing their possibility of being co-responsible with the Administration, of expanding the possibilities of raising questions. You have spoken about many of these conventions and the relationship with the Executive, also from that area, from that private management that they have, from their bet on that private risk and how they also want to share scene and public sphere within that assistance. We had talked before about many of those issues, which have to do with adherence, which have to do with promotion, information, involvement even in activities, as you mentioned, in methadone programs, etc., and many more that had to do with AIDS, some of which were very important early detection elements. But we see that there is dissatisfaction, they too have expressed it, in relation to the primary care document. We want to complete it, and it seems to me extraordinary that you should come to the committee to explain in detail this document, which has many issues and indeed certainly interesting ones. But we understand that it could be completed, in that leg of which I am speaking, because we are moving in relation to that involvement of the community pharmacist and with primary care a little bit in dissatisfaction, in the indefinitiveness with this document, and, since it is a strategic document, it would have to be addressed in a global way, and that none of the actors involved in primary care would escape in one way or another, directly or indirectly, but who are essential agents. Therefore, in the motion that we will bring to plenary, as a result of this inquiry, we will try to deepen that role, also integrated in the formula of how to define it, how to reflect on it, how to integrate it into the theme and the role and strategy of primary care, but we will do so in the near future. Let us hope that we can be receptive and hope that your explanation to the House, in relation to the primary care document, will thus be enriched by a new and more decisive factor, which not only defines the role of primary care pharmacists, but also the essential role of community pharmacists, which is not included in this document today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u108	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u109	Mr. Barrio. Given the interest that the Community pharmacy arouses in you, and that from the Department of Health and Osakidetza we share, I would also like to recall in this House that in these last two legislatures, in X and XI, we have proposed a strategic character in shaping our commitment to the development of the Community pharmacy. Indeed, the goal of integrating pharmacy offices as health agents into government programs with specific initiatives has been incorporated. In particular, commitment number 82, pharmaceutical care, with initiatives 1 and 2, has been incorporated into the programme of government of the XI legislature, consolidation of the integration of pharmacy offices as health agents in the Basque public health system and promotion of adequate pharmaceutical care for all persons served in residences of elderly people and socio-health centres in Euskadi. On the other hand, the Health Plan for Euskadi 2013-2020, in its priority area 5.2, people with disease, incorporates in objective 2.2, adequate use of drugs, promote the proper use of drugs through coordinated and integrated action between primary, hospital, mental health and pharmacies, especially for patients – as I mentioned earlier – polymedicines, which are the ones that can benefit most, and those drugs that require special follow-up. In addition, these objectives have been incorporated into the strategic lines of the Department of Health and Osakidetza. And, moreover, the same lehendakari of the Basque Government, in the meeting held on 17 September 2017 with the three presidents of the official schools of pharmacists of Euskadi and the president of the General Council of Pharmaceutical Schools of Spain, ratified the Basque bet for the model of community pharmacy. He highlighted the key role of the pharmacy as an important contributor to health care improvement plans, as a clear example of success in public-private collaboration, and called for further development through the implementation of pharmaceutical care programmes that bring value to the health system and are cost-effective I believe, Mr. Barrio, that the Community Force is of great importance to us. In this respect, therefore, we agree that pharmaceuticals and his professionals have a basic function in the medical system, even in primary attention and other areas. I will not go much further, as I believe it has become clear in my answer that the pharmacy and its professionals are regarded as a key piece in the Basque health care network, in primary care, of course, and in the rest of the fields as well. That is why I will only add, in conclusion, that, in this line, the Governing Council adopted on 26 February a decree regulating pharmacy services and drug stores in senior residences. This decree establishes a new model of pharmaceutical delivery that is more efficient and safer, which aims to increase the quality of care in the field of pharmacy in the residences of the elderly in Euskadi, an area for us as close as primary care, and which once again demonstrates the importance we attach to the pharmaceutical field and its management. We have done important work, with very positive results, but I do not doubt that we will continue to make progress along this path and that we hope to have the same involvement and help that we have always had from all the parties involved and of course also from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group of Laura Garrido Knörr was made to the head physician of the Medical Department, the founder of the professional career of the Osacombs." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome, chief physician, I told you yesterday, we hope to have some luck. But it's true you've got some problems on the table right now, and the subject we've brought to this debate today is also a problem for Osacides and this government. Resolution 588/2014 of 8 May of the Director General of Osakidetza, agrees to the suspension of the ordinary and extraordinary calls for professional development convened by the resolutions at the time issued in 2011 by the Directorate General of Osakidetza, also the suspension of the new recognitions of professional development. As you know, Commissioner, because this point has also been dealt with at the beginning of today's plenary session, this resolution has been widely used, not only by trade unions, but also by individuals, and has given rise to several pronouncements. It is true that the judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country is appealed in cassation, it is a judgment that must be handed down by the Chamber itself and, with due caution, it seems that the judgment can be reproduced, and then there is another ruling, already of the Supreme Court, inadmitting the appeal lodged by Osakidetza in relation to this question. As I said, the first judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, which is currently being appealed, clearly speaks of a recognition of the right to professional development and, not only that, but this recognition of professional development carries with it the payment of the corresponding amounts that are pending. It should be said that the right to professional development has absolute legal coverage and is embodied in the relevant calls. We are therefore talking about a clearly consolidated right also in Euskadi. That is why we ask you, Madam Counsellor, what assessment this ruling of the courts deserves, which highlights the actions of the Government and the actions of the Directorate-General of Osakidetza over the past few years, in recent years, which has not enabled the development of the professional career of those employees who have been able to present themselves to the aforementioned call, those who have not been able to do so by the corresponding resolution of 2014, but, in the end, these judgments show that concrete expectations of employees seeking access to the development of this professional career have not been allowed and have been frustrated, recognizing it as a right, with the subscription, as I said, of the corresponding amounts.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u112	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u113	Mrs. President, members of the legislature, chief of the department, Mrs Garrido. As I said to Mrs. Ubera, the Medical Department and Osarities have always respected what the courts say and this case will not be an exception. However, as you know, the judgment is not final. So let's wait. I will repeat this, as I did at the beginning of today's presentation. The Department of Health and Osakidetza have always respected court decisions and we are not going to change now. I am sure you will share this respect for judicial work with me. But, for the time being, this time, we are not facing a final judgment. I also remind you that the appeal to this same court for an autonomous cassation, as you yourself mentioned, is still pending. So, let's wait. However, I would like to remind you that the 2011 call for professional development is still suspended under the Budget Act for 2012, 2013 and 2014. Moreover, that year, in 2014, Osakidetza raised the call to the sectoral table to try to reach an agreement with the unions. However, the agreement was not possible and since then the professional career has remained frozen. Attempts to reach agreements with trade unions in this area over the past few years have been innumerable. However, the union response to any possible negotiation has always been "no". However, Osakidetza last February already announced at the Health Sectoral Table his intention to resume the professional career allowance since January 2019. And that's what will be done soon. This is indeed evidence of the performance of the Department of Health and Osakidetza, and not the ruling issued by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country on 13 March. We must wait for a final judgment and it will therefore be acted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Eskerrik asko, sailburu andrea. What happens is that the question is very obvious, Counsellor, why have these expectations of the right of so many public employees been generated and frustrated? Why were thousands of 2012 professionals raised expectations? Why is that 2014 resolution being issued that paralyzes the ongoing calls? Why is the payment of these deadlines being extended when we are obviously going to wait? But you already know the Supreme Court's ruling in what sense it has gone, not to admit the appeal lodged by Osakidetza and the other appeal will be settled by the same chamber, and the first appeal and the first sentence we have already seen in what sense it has gone, not only in the recognition of the right, but in the recognition that the sums due are paid. Why have other autonomous communities with fewer resources recognized the professional career, Counsellor? Why have those affected been pushed to court? Because in the end they've been driven when it's known they're going to have to pay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u116	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Time is up. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u117	Mrs Garrido, our willingness to pay for the professional career has been clear when the economy of the Basque Country so permits and we must recognize that it is now that we are coming out of a few very hard years for the whole of Basque society. It is true that for this year we have extended budgets, but it is no less true that, making an important budgetary effort, Osakidetza has shown that his willingness to regain his professional career for this year 2019 is a fact. In the coming months we will pay this supplement to all the workers and to all the workers who belong to them, and, meanwhile, we will also wait for the resolution of the autonomous cassation appeal brought by Osakidetza before the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. We will wait and once it is resolved we will act accordingly. Don't hesitate, but we'll have to wait for the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The 18th point in the subject list: "Appeal, Edurne García Urmbe, a member of the Podemos, a member of the political department of Cultura and Language, an example of the Bibicological strike and the culture-gravitation model." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u119	Good morning, thank you, ma'am. Good morning, Mr. Zupiria. Today it is three months since the workers of the Ubik library in Tabakalera in Donostia started a strike demanding decent working conditions. Since December 22, the mediators have been on an indefinite strike for more than 90 days without any proposal to help unlock the situation, either by Tabakalera or by the subcontracted company. The Ubik Library is one of the most used services by the citizenry and has been closed ever since. In this period of time there have been only seven meetings between the workers and the company subcontracted by Tabakalera, Sedena, where, it should be remembered, Tabakalera has not participated, and, what is even more serious to us, there has been no proposal that would approach the demands of the workers by far. This attitude calls into question the willingness of both the company and Tabakalera to resolve the conflict. Subcontracted workers who serve the public in the library demand solutions in addition to dialogue. They just want to reach an agreement that will put an end to the precariousness to which they are subjected. I'll explain the conditions I'm sure you don't know. They can not enjoy the holidays when they want, but they are distributed in their weeks of rest promoted by the work in shifts they perform. And they also receive an average net remuneration of 990 euros, to mention two of the working conditions that derive from the convention that applies to them, which is that of Educational Leisure and State Sociocultural Animation 2015. Mr Zupiria, from Elkarrekin We do not understand how no measures are taken and why the situation of unacceptable job insecurity has not been resolved so far in a public cultural infrastructure under your responsibility. Because, as you well know, the Board of Directors of Tabakalera is made up of representatives of both the Gipuzkoa Parliament and the Donostia City Council, as well as of the Basque Government, among whom you are yourself. And some of those counselors have moved that they understand that the working conditions that women workers have are bad and need to be improved. However, last January on the same board of directors where a budget of €6 million was approved for 2019, no concrete proposal was approved to channel the situation of the 13 Ubik mediators on strike and put an end to the labour dispute. I imagine you'll have something to say about this. Unfortunately, they once again reaffirmed that it is a conflict that needs to be resolved between the company and the workforce. This attitude seems irresponsible to us and makes us doubt Tabakalera's interest in ending the conflict. Since the negotiations are blocked, we find it interesting, important and fundamental that Tabakalera participate actively in the negotiations, guiding them and participating in the agreement between the workers, the company and Tabakalera itself. However, that of Ubik workers is not the first conflict in Euskadi related to the conditions of employment in different cultural infrastructures, nor will it be the last, in view of the policies that its department implements. An example of precarious and harmful work management is found for example in the museum where you have direct responsibility such as the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao. The 18 people of the Education and Orientation Departments of the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao on the staff of an ETT declared themselves on strike to demand an improvement in wages, compensation for worked holidays and the subrogation of their contracts. Do you think those decent working conditions were not in a museum that receives public money? If the memory doesn't fail me, about 6 million euros a year. What did the management of this publicly funded museum do in the face of the fair demands of these workers? I remind you, Mr. Zupiria: The response of the Guggenheim Museum Foundation was the cessation of the relationship with the ETT that had carried out for two years the outsourcing of these jobs and the internalization of the work that their workers were doing, which meant the immediate dismissal of most of these people. Another example of precariousness has been given at the Museum of Fine Arts in Bilbao. The staff of auxiliaries of sub-contracted rooms of the Museum of Fine Arts of Bilbao had unfortunate working conditions, wages of misery, insecurity in employment... After a 41-day strike they managed to move from paying 10,400 euros per year to 20,500 euros, plus the trienniums, which in most cases would mean a salary increase of over 100 %. In addition, the request of the staff was recognized to reach the figure of 1,200 euros net monthly for 14 paid per year. The recognition of antiquity was also achieved with its corresponding economic amount in the figure of the Trienians. And this agreement guarantees the right of subrogation, triumph of the struggle maintained by the workers, by the way. In all these cases I have mentioned to you, not only do you show the absolute disinterest of your department in the precarious working conditions of museum and other infrastructure workers, but also when the workers force them to do so – and they have to force them, which is rather sad – it is possible for the administrations and you in particular to give in and rectify the working conditions that impose on women workers in these spaces. And as I have already expressed in other interventions, the problem lies in the cultural model that you and your department are developing in Euskadi, a cultural model that we believe should be focused on the basic culture in public space as the main place for the development of community living culture, in towns and cities, and not on the tendency to turn culture into a mercantilized and spectacular product for consumption, leisure and tourism of the great museum and the macro-event that is being imposed in Euskadi. A model that does not generate quality jobs. On the contrary, it promotes precariousness and impedes the legitimate right of citizens to culture, since only a few can access large macro-events, museums and cultural pharaonic centres, as a result of their prices or the obvious territorial imbalance, not only between cities but also as far as the peoples are concerned. We have already seen it in plenary last week with the decree of the Government that wants to limit the hotel spaces that offer concerts and cultural expressions free of charge. Because this is what you are promoting, Mr Zupiria, a cultural model that generates thematic parks of precariousness, a cultural model of the 21st century that, in the face of budget cuts and the extension of the business model within public cultural management, has led to the rise of another type of business. The result of the outsourcing of certain services. Because there are more and more museums and cultural centres that cover these needs, through competitions, eliminating the own staff they had at the time or dismissing from the beginning the possibility of hiring him. And while certain companies do their August, the workers they subcontract suffer the worst working conditions that can be imagined. The directors and managers of museums, art centers, foundations and administrations who manage are perfectly aware that they are encouraging and giving shelter to underemployment, but they cover their noses while signing the awards or giving them the approval. And this is the real problem that should be addressed by your department and you, Mr. Zupiria, as a Culture Advisor. Returning to the case of women workers at the Ubik Library in Tabakalera, a situation of unacceptable job insecurity has not been resolved so far, in a cultural infrastructure under their responsibility. And it joins the list of labor conflicts and the expansion and normalization of precariousness in cultural spaces in Euskadi. In view of this situation, we would like to know, Mr Zupiria, what action you intend to take to improve the conditions of employment in the Ubik Library in Tabakalera and in other cultural infrastructures and spaces under your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u121	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mrs. Garcia. The project known as Ubik is the Tabakalera Library Program. A library that, in addition to the book consulting service, offers different spaces, services and creative activities. It is therefore a specialized cultural creation project, like the centre itself, in contemporary culture, and offers a wide range of services to people who come to Ubik. Its services began in 2016 with the opening of the center and are part of the cultural project of Tabakalera. Mrs García, the participation of the Government in Tabakalera is, on behalf of the Government, the responsibility of the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy. But from that to assure, as you do in the text of your inquiry, that Tabakalera is a public institution that is under my responsibility, I believe there is a stretch. And let me clarify this point. Tabakalera is an anonymous public society, participated by the Municipality of Donostia, the Provincial Council of Gipuzkoa and the Basque Government, and has for its government a board of directors, an executive committee and a professional management body, the general management, who assumes the management and management of the center, as well as its people and resources. The people who participate in their management bodies do so on behalf of the founding institutions, and, through them, people who represented the different political formations that led these institutions have passed through them at every moment. Therefore, representatives of EH Bildu, PSE and PNV have passed through their governing bodies at different times and circumstances. The start-up process of Tabakalera took place mainly between 2008 and 2016, and the government bodies of Tabakalera, together with their management team, took the measures they considered most appropriate in each case. It is in this context that it was decided that Ubik would count for the own service of organization and management of the library with an own human team, belonging to the staff of Tabakalera composed of four people. It was also agreed that for the management of Ubik's services users, a public competition would be held to hire a specialized company, which would be responsible for the management of Ubik's services, as well as for the recruitment, management and management of the human equipment needed to provide them. The current organization of Tabakalera and its projects, specifically the bidding of the services of care, information and mediation of the library of creation, was decided by the Board of Directors of Tabakalera on 30 March 2015. I think you won't need to remember who was in each institution and what political formations the majority had on the Board of Directors of Tabakalera. The winning company for the management of Ubik's complementary services was the Sedena company. Sedena is a Navarra company that provides management services in the areas of culture, sport, education, youth, leisure and leisure, organizing events and providing care services for older persons and associations. As far as the cultural field is concerned, it has awarded, among others, the management of spaces and activities in the network of socio-cultural spaces of the City of Pamplona, of Caja Navarra, the civic centers of the City of Tudela, the services of the House of Culture of Zizur Mayor or the Palace of the Alfajería in Zaragoza, the conduct of activities in Caixa Forum-Zaragoza, the theatre, civic center and cultural space of Ansoain, the cultural activities of the City of Berriozar, Burlada and Zizur Mayor, the children's library and support in the General Library of Navarra and auxiliary services in the General Archive of Navarra. It is, in short, a company specialized in the professional provision of cultural services for public and private organizations in five autonomous communities, and for this it has a group of contracted professionals who guarantee the provision of the corresponding services. Sedena currently employs 13 people to manage these Ubik mediation services in Tabakalera. They are professionals who respond to a profile of care, information and mediation technicians, specialized in various activities, such as video games, technology, audiovisual, sound, contemporary thinking and cultural management. The level of qualification required of these persons in the competition was FP2, diploma or university degree. The workers who provide these mediation services linked to Ubik are therefore employees of the Sedena company and have developed their functions under the conditions agreed with the company at the time of their recruitment. These conditions can therefore be amended at any time, provided that there is an agreement between workers and undertakings, and provided that it is done by negotiating and signing an employment agreement or by other agreements which the parties concerned may agree to. The institutions that we participate in Tabakalera know that a change in the working conditions of the employees of Sedena who provide their services in Ubik could result in a change in the conditions under which the contract was awarded and we have always been open to analyzing these possible consequences. But this requires, first, the conformity of the company and, secondly, a labor agreement between Sedena and its employees in Tabakalera, which is the result of a negotiation and an agreement between the parties to the conflict, that is, a labor agreement resulting from a company-employees agreement which obliges the contractor. The Director General of Tabakalera has always been willing to analyse this review if necessary. But I insist, the solution to this labour dispute inevitably comes first and foremost through an agreement between the company and the workers, and not between the Basque public institutions and the people hired by Sedena. I therefore summarise the position of the General Directorate of Tabakalera. The editor of tobacco insisted that there is no other way to solve the conflict between the Sea and its employees. In the same way, he understands that the intermediates wish to improve their conditions of labour, but, as a conflict of labour, it must be agreed between the corporations, the Setena, and its employees. They'll have to work in this negotiation area, so the agreement. If, through negotiation, corporations and workers come to an agreement, Tabala is prepared to review the established contract, and, if necessary, to re-establish service by a new contest, and to maintain these conditions, as far as the law permits. Seasons in Sedena have requested to apply a pact of social labor from the beginning of the conflict, or to receive the terms of this agreement in some corporate agreement. The main purpose of the organizations which work in this region of social intervention is to serve to improve the quality of specific community or community life, in order to help people who live in a social state of social inequality, in order to improve their community. And this is neither Ubike nor Tabaler's work nor his aim. The tobacconist's project is connected with the culture system, and all its services and programs are open to the whole society. It is not therefore the aim of the action of some particular groups in order to make their social condition better. This, too, might be in the way, but that is not the case, for there are other sites and centers for that purpose. The Ubik creation library project is based on a manifts supported by UNESCO on public libraries. Consequently the functions which the mediators perform are the functions of public libraries and not social intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u122	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u123	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Zupiria, I do not aspire to be an advisor to any department of the Basque Government, but if I were, I would not drain the lump, I would take responsibility, I would really tell you. Under no circumstances can the country's greatest cultural leader understand that he can look elsewhere when talking about various conflicts, various claims in different cultural spaces whose responsibility is directly his, and more specifically whether we are talking about a case, that of Tabakalera, where you are a member of the board of directors. I think the responsibility is very direct. We cannot, or I understand that he is not responsible and that, given his position, he cannot come out here to list me the parabens of Tabakalera, which are many, and to avoid talking about the working conditions of absolute precariousness in which women workers live. It's just that I'm also asking you, because you're the Culture Advisor. If, for example, in other cases, I had to ask the Security Adviser, I would ask her why in the same case as Tabakalera, the Ertzaintza's action has been disproportionate to the identifications and to what it has to do with a right, such as that of the strike, which I understand cannot be violated. But in this case we are talking about culture and we are talking about a cultural model. We are talking about several conflicts and, in this case, it is very important that we do not throw balloons out. I'm very clear about that. We from Elkarrekin We have been denouncing for a long time that the privatization and subcontracting promoted by the political parties that govern our institutions carry out an outsourcing and a model that tries, as I said before, to generate – it seems – thematic parks of precariousness in cultural infrastructures of the 21st century, which also results in eventuality, lower wages and fewer rights and guarantees. And all these conflicts have in common that the Public Administration is responsible for the management of these services; and the Administration's objective is not to offer good public service in good conditions, but to lower the bidding of the service, regardless of the working conditions and always favoring the interests of the contracting companies. And these conflicts also have something else in common: the party that is currently in power in these administrations, the PNV. These workers can only resort to mobilization and strike to defend or claim better working conditions, and in many cases these strikes are excessively prolonged because of the non-negotiating will of the Administration, your party or yourself when it is co-responsible, as in the case of Tabakalera. That is why I refer you back to the question: what steps are you going to take to resolve a conflict for which you are directly responsible and so that this does not become something chronified within the cultural model that you, as a Culture Advisor, understand what you have for culture in Euskadi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u125	Mrs. Garcia. I don't like looking anywhere else. You can tell me, of course, I can't tell you, although we are probably experiencing similar situations in many places. But, well, I assume my responsibility and also accept the critical part that corresponds to me. And I've told you that if there are conditions to improve the working conditions of those people, and that goes through an agreement between the company and the workers to which they belong or are employed, we're going to do whatever is in our hands to make that happen. And if it is necessary and legally possible to modify the contract, we will. That's the answer. I think I've answered him. I don't know. Anyway, I'm not who, I can have my own opinion, but despite the responsibility I have, I don't think I'm who to say under what conditions people should work, right? I mean, I know that the offer that the company is making right now and before which no one in all these years has said anything, the offer that the company is making moves within the parameters of leisure, culture and animation, and corresponds to the conditions that are being offered in other places like Zizur Mayor, Iruñea, Tudela or Zaragoza. The governments of these cities have the participation of organizations related to Podemos or have been supported by their formation. That's why I meant before that I don't look anywhere else, but like none of us should. I take my share of responsibility and invite you to do the same, don't I? I do not want to talk about the 17 people who have fired your organization, relying on the conditions that allow the new agreement of labor reform, because it is not for me, I will not do it. That's why I'm saying, we each assume our responsibility. And, in the terms in which it is raised, there is one aspect that I also think is very important, and I believe that the approach that Sedena workers are making to their company, demanding, demanding another framework, another convention, that of social mediation, I think it does not belong to them and I believe that Tabakalera should not accept that new agreement. I believe that Tabakalera's activities are covered by the convention on leisure and cultural mediation, and I think we should stick to that. Therefore, the invitation that I would make to the workers of Sedena who provide their services in Ubik is to negotiate with the company and reach an agreement. And from there I think we'll all have a chance of acting and if not, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u126	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interregation, the Forest, the members of the House Farm and the Congressmen of the Levant, to the Chief of Work and Justice, the lack of initiative in the government for domestic workers." Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u127	Thank you all, good noon. "She's not used to being interested in her work." It's coming from Igandean, El Correo. Because, Chief San José, the 8th of March was a great strike, and not only because of the pictures of the demonstrations, but because we stopped working all these women. How many discussions did we have in view of the situation which arose around the watch-dogs? On the other hand, there were plenty of people who couldn't strike, and those who worked on duty were not able to strike. But in different mutations their voice could be heard. But they are not used to hearing their voice because it was said in the same report: "son Kalellies "I don't charge much, but most of the houses I've worked in aren't rich people, quite the opposite, they're families that don't have much, but they need someone to look after their old people," says a housekeeper. The figure of the domestic worker comes to supply in precarious to specialized geriatric assistance inaccessible for the most adjusted pensions. "The figure is created, what a paradox this is, of the maid of modests," writes El Correo journalist Some people don't realize how important they are, and they don't seem to be here either. Neither does this Government, because they present us with plans to combat the wage gap, they present them to the drum and plant, and where are the domestic workers in these plans? Where is the social valuation of people who care for the maintenance of life? You don't mention anything about them because it's a sector you've completely neglected, Mrs. San José. I'm no longer used to excuses, so tell us, in this law, all those political groups that we asked for, and tell us why you didn't do anything from your department, we didn't do it on your first turn, we didn't even give it to you in the second. Today I would like to sit down and hear something new from you and not that concerns you, not that they are a priority, not empty words that are not accompanied by concrete actions because, look, we will all review together the non-law proposal that was adopted unanimously. Because, well, what it seems here is that it is an issue of EH Bildu, and that the opposition to the government is in any case doing so by the five groups that we make up the House, also those that support the government. Two non-legislative proposals adopted unanimously and one in which we and Elkarrekin can decide to stay out, i.e. it is also not complying with the requests made only by the parties supporting the Government and in this case also by the People's Party. Maybe they and they should go out and talk and ask about it. But, well, let's look at the last agreement, I repeat, unanimously. At number one we asked Osakidetza to review the protocols for care and identification of accidents together with Osalan, and, in the questions we asked to the Department of Health, we received an answer that made us hallucinated. "The regulations which are established within the sphere of professional diseases, regardless of the field of labor stripers, have, after all, begun no process of reflection, and have not been brought together by professional professional members of the Osamental world, in order that they may be able to identify the labor stripries which occur in the collective community of domestic workers." And they stay so calm, and there's no new health counselor to tell her that, well, I hope she gives us another kind of answer to these questions. Because you know very well that the situation of domestic workers is very delicate in the case of accidents at work, we have talked about it and we have shared it more than once, and that the participation of the Department of Health is needed to turn it around. The parts of the casualty that fills the medical staff of Osakidetza must necessarily define whether it is common or professional casualty, and do not want or take any steps to train the professionals in this. Second point. In your domestic work you were asked to reopen the risks, and the point before would be a big contribution, and we even asked you to make a wide guide in the third quarter of 2018. Where is he? We asked you a question where you sent various contributions and requests, not the same guide. On the 23rd of October you were sent to the agents and asked for a quick answer. You received answers in November, and what did you do with it? Hirugarren scores – and we follow, because it has not been fulfilled either. Request for a diagnosis of the situation of female domestic workers, and, even if it was a separate process, also examine whether it was discriminatory for female domestic workers to be excluded from surplus support. Not one, not one. I had to bring it in by November 2017, we gave it an extension until the last quarter of 2018 and we are in March 2019. Where's the job and where's our decision? Fourthly, because the problem is not that we do not have a diagnosis, the problem is that, as we asked you at the fourth point that from the observations of that diagnosis this Government should make a plan to improve the working conditions of domestic workers, there is nothing here. There is no performance and as long as By the time you come and do the relevant work, what do you intend to do, make a plan for the last few months of this government? Fifth. Four points and no completion, let's move to the fifth. Parliament urged them, in three months' time, once they had the results of the diagnosis, to study the re-adaptation of inspection campaigns. And with this, more of the same. They continue to wait and do as they have so far, something that has been seen to have given no results with the placement agencies. The last time you and I talked about it we did it just about how the different agencies were taking advantage of the vulnerability situation of many of the domestic workers, and the legal vacuum that the institutions seem to have no intention of solving, to have women without contract in the houses, with abusive working days, etc. We are not going to repeat what you very well know. We have female slaves at Euskal Herria's homes and we are doing nothing to deal with this. They have more than one complaint about the abusive practices of the agencies, among them the one we mentioned at the time, Employees of the Home, which, I repeat, was closed thanks to the mobilization of the workers themselves and not for the work of their department. And there are many others that can be mentioned, such as, for example, Apuros Mayse, that if this topic were not so serious, we would also laugh at the name and the perfidy they have in seeking names for this type of agency. He has had complaints about this particular agency on the table since 2013, and they have never done anything. These agencies continue to place women without contract in homes and in poor conditions. And I'd like to be able to put a video on them, but we still don't have a Parliament 2.0 that will allow it, so I recommend you all to see the interview that Bizkaia's home workers did to Teodora. Not only does she give her testimony, but also the person who hired her, the lord who was being cared for by her. She raised her voice in 2014, so that this company would not do the same to others. And since 2014 he has not stopped doing so. Migrant women, without contract, in homes from which they cannot leave, and in order to do so, Teodora had to pay 100 euros to a person who supplied that day for work, for a salary of 1,200 euros, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. And let's move on to the sixth point, the last and not the most important. Lanbide was asked for a process of employment and training and I am going to read what they had or what they proposed to us as a formative proposal: "To carry out the process of food processing in their phase of purchase, organization; to carry out a process of washing, ironing and sewing and to carry out the cleaning of private homes". Is this what this Government intends to do with domestic workers and their situation?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mrs Etxebarrieta, I do not want to hide the recognition of the difficulties that we are having within the Department of Labour and Justice, and in particular within the Osalan autonomous body, in order to comply with the initiatives adopted in this House relating to the diagnosis of the situation of the domestic employment sector and its labour rights. Be sure that at no time has it been due to the lack of interest in the problem. We are concerned, and we are very concerned, about the reasons for the delay; I will try to explain them to you and I hope you understand them. However, I can tell you that within a very short time you will all be able to count on the required documents. It will allow me in my reply to follow the same pattern as you followed from the motion adopted in this Parliament on 7 June 2018. Firstly, with regard to the care and identification of accidents at work, Osalan has two basic avenues of access to know about accidents at work occurring in our Community. One is through SOS-Deiak, which gives direct warning to Osalan, and another through the application called "telematic processing of parts of accidents and occupational diseases", IGATT, by its acronym in Basque. Order 241/2003 of 10 December 2003 obliges the social security managing or collaborating entities authorised to submit within 24 hours of the occurrence of the parts of accidents on the aforementioned telematics platform. Osalan controls daily updates of those files. It should be noted that the Royal Decree Law 2028/2018, of 28 December, by including self-employed workers in the contribution for professional contingencies, allows us to know the sinestrality of an important sector that was previously unknown, because it was not the obligation of self-employed workers to pay for professional contingencies. On the other hand, it is also worth highlighting the existing computer tool available to all primary care professionals, through which they can communicate to the occupational health unit of Osalan any suspicion of the possible work origin of the diseases manifested by the patients. With regard to the basic guide for the prevention of occupational risks for domestic workers, I would like to inform you, Mrs Etxebarrieta, that it is completed and revised, failing to translate into Basque any section that will be carried out on very short dates and forwarded to all of you. The guide we will provide to you has been prepared by Osalan staff and has been supplemented by allegations submitted by LAB unions, Workers' Commissions and UGT. In summary, I can tell you that this guide has been carried out, despite the fact that the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks in its article 3.4 states: "This Law will also not apply to the special employment relationship of the family home service". The development of this guide is based on the conviction and finding that it is not appropriate to underestimate the risks that exist in the home, that there are potential risks of different typologies due to the wide variety of tasks carried out by persons working in the family home service. This is a complete document, which first of all provides an approach to domestic work and its basic regulations, as well as a definition of the service of the family home. The risks are divided into four sections: risks associated with safety conditions, developing them into eight typologies; risks associated with the work environment, where four specific risks are identified; ergonomic risks, especially addressing the risks of ergonomic disorders, and psychosocial risks, analyzing the most relevant cases such as stress situations, burnout syndrome, etc. The third point of the motion adopted by you once again urged us to forward the two studies required. I must admit to you that at this point the difficulties we have encountered have been numerous. Aware of this, we commissioned the Department of Sociology and Social Work of the Basque public university to develop the planned diagnosis. We already have some progress on this work and it is almost complete. I hope that we will have the final document before the end of this month and send it to you for translation. The first challenge faced by researchers, as reflected in their report, is the lack of approved data and the absence of specific studies that can bring us closer to the real situation. We are, as the professionals of the University of the Basque Country define, faced with a phenomenon called "iceberg reality", with a submerged part whose systematic approach is enormously complicated. The very characteristics of this sector of employment and the reality tell us. According to a report prepared in 2016, commissioned by the ILO, by researchers Magdalena Díaz Gorfinkiel and Celia Fernández López, at least 30% of household workers in Spain work without being affiliated with Social Security. A year later, a number of information corroborates the study, since according to data from the Ministry of Employment, there were 424,395 persons contributing to the special system of domestic workers as domestic staff within the General Social Security Regime, while the Active Population Survey revealed that there were 617,400 persons in that occupation, from which it follows that only 68.7% of these persons were in a regular situation with regard to social security. The ILO itself recognizes in an information note on domestic work that official statistics tend to underestimate the number of domestic workers, and the estimates should therefore be regarded as a lower limit than their actual extent. We are therefore faced with a quantitatively important labour sector, which in 2017 represented an average of 29,840 persons affiliated with Social Security under the corresponding headings. It should be noted, however, that these figures had multiplied by two since 2006. Other characteristics of the study are the ratification that it is a highly feminized sector. 95% of those employed are women and with a strong presence of people of immigrant origin, which, according to data from the Basque Observatory for Immigration-Ikuspegi, is the main source of employment: 29.3% for this population group. With regard to the second report on the effects of the suspension of articles 14.3 of Decree 177/2010 and 4.3 of Decree 31/2015, which I have previously reported on, I can say that the decision is confined to a jurisdictional area which does not fall within the competence of the Department of Labour and Justice, because the aid for surpluses or reductions in working hours is materialized by this department. In conclusion, the situation of domestic workers is a matter of concern to us, Mrs Etxebarrieta, more so because it affects women in particular. I am aware that they are the most vulnerable in the labour market. Data on employment in the sector, its precariousness and other circumstances require not only awareness but action. But I would like to point out to you, Mrs Etxebarrieta, that neither Osalan nor the Department of Labour and Justice nor the Basque Government itself have the absolute power to amend the situation. Measures are needed at different and coordinated levels. For our part, we will deal with the departments of the Basque Government that can provide solutions to the elaboration of the plan that you urged us to carry out. Of course we will establish the relationship and try to reach agreements with the legal representatives of the sector. We will also keep the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate's alert on agencies that act illegally in the recruitment of domestic workers. In this case, two actions of the Labour Inspectorate are currently open against placement agencies, which act as intermediaries and not as contractors. I can assure you that the inspection will act as always, with all rigour. Over the course of 2018 and in the course of the year, 60 actions have been carried out in domestic employment, contracting companies of persons employed in the household who provide services to customers within the scope of the competences of the transferred inspection: 25 actions in labour relations, 21 actions in occupational health and safety and 14 in employment. Finally, as I have already done on some occasions, I reiterate my call for both individuals and trade unions representing other associations to report cases that may have a fraudulent bias to the competent authorities. I ended up making it clear that we want to bet on the improvement of the working conditions and rights of the group of people employed in the household using the means we have, which alone will not be the panacea to correct the situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u130	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u131	First of all, I'd like to put that idea I was talking about at first on the table again. At the moment when we are speaking of wages, I believe that we ought to abandon this term and begin to talk about the pretorial lives of women, who are left behind behind for the care and care of the public. This, moreover, continues to penetrate even further into their prevarications. And in that point of view you plan or bring it back, you're missing the confession of that fundamental sector and these basic works. Then, on the one hand, we've got another proposition here agreed with, but on the other hand, you're working in which you leave this sector to one side, and we really think it's impossible to understand it as two parallel lines. And we've been talking and we've put these women on the table, as well as the situations in which they live in many houses. I'd like to mark an idea: We don't want to criminalize users and people who hire them because many of them do what they can. As it was said in the report, when the institutions of people who are not in the highest degree dependent on dependence, they do what they are least able to afford. What's going on? That this work is left behind the women and the immigrants. The institution, therefore, is responsible for what you have, not for your department, but for the whole government. And I agree with you that in other places you said we ought to talk about it in other directions. It's obvious who the interview is between. Because it's collective responsibility, not personal or not familiar. With the answers that you have given me, I also at the time accepted and put on the table that we understand that diagnoses of such silence need their processing times, their interviews and that all of this of course could and should be extended, because that work was done in good condition, what was necessary. But the problem is that all this is leading us not to address the different points that would come after that diagnosis and that's what I was trying to put on the table in today's inquiry. You have told me, for example, about the telematics platform, and we have to talk, and you have also said, for example, that with the actions that Osalan does around the placement agencies he will act as always. The problem is that the "as always" does not work in the case of domestic workers. Both the references to Osakidetza and to Osalan, continuing to do so and so far does not make these workers aware of the work accidents they have had, because it is a very specific, very special situation that should be treated differently and that is what we put in the first point. Or in the fourth point too, that the actions of Osalan himself were done differently with these agencies because it has been seen that so far the work that has been done has not yielded results, because agencies that continue to be reported year after year continue to carry out totally abusive and illegal practices. On the second point, he was telling us about the guide and that we too – thanks to the answer given to us – received the contributions made by the different unions. But I would like to know what kind of participation has been carried out. Because it's one thing to get those documents, but then how do we integrate them? Choosing it, integrating it, or are we going to talk about how we reformulate it? Because one of the complaints that was also made by the workers at Bizkaia's home was that the process should not be done that way. And, finally, it would be the subject of the diagnosis. I was really a little surprised by the answer you gave me that the aid does not belong to this department. I hope that's not the answer you put into the diagnosis because if it's taken so long so far to tell us that, I might have told you before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u133	Mrs Etxebarrieta, I will begin by acknowledging in this second speech that there is still much to be improved on the subject before us. But, for our part, we are going to work, from the tools we have and from the institutions we have competence. Firstly, in particular, in the basic guide for the prevention of occupational risks which I have mentioned, to make it a starting point for improving the working conditions of these employees from the point of view of the prevention of occupational risks. As I have already mentioned, the feminization of this collective is a reality, which, since Osalan, in particular, has supported us on two fundamental axes of the Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work. 2015-2020, as are the culture of prevention and the generation of knowledge in occupational risk prevention, we will promote actions that relate to the study we are finalizing. Osalan's Plan for Equality of Women and Men 2018-2021 has two aspects. One, the internal one, aimed at correcting internal or gender dysfunctions in the organization itself at the internal level, and the other external one, aimed at advising, promoting and recommending companies and collectives. Within this plan, as one of the sectoral priorities within the line of promoting the culture of prevention, there is the mainstreaming of the gender perspective in programmes promoting the culture of prevention of occupational risks. And one of them, specifically the fourth, is aimed at spreading the risks associated with home work. And, as an objective of the aforementioned Equality Plan, another objective is to generate and disseminate knowledge about occupational safety and health from a gender perspective. At this point, in the section aimed at carrying out specific studies on certain feminist professional groups, the first action is directed to the study on working persons serving the family home and to draw up proposals for action. A very clear conclusion is drawn from the data I have presented before. Employers and sometimes also employed persons need to be made aware of the need to improve the social security discharge ratios of employed persons in the household. For me this is a fundamental objective, because from there will be the other measures for an equalization. You insist on the need for systematic inspection plans. At this point I say to you that while we are going to maintain this pressure on the performance of the employment agencies of the persons employed in the household, direct action on the domicile, on the individual employers, is more complicated by the legal limitations that the inspection has to do its work in those particular homes. On the other hand, the equalization of social protection or benefit rights must be addressed by the person responsible. I have to tell you too, and I hope you will recognise this, that many of the measures – and you have said this – do not fall within our competence or yours as a legislative body, as I am referring to dealing with legislative changes that correspond to the Congress of Deputies. Recent measures have already been taken in this area by the Government of President Pedro Sánchez, which improves the general and sectoral situation, such as the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage, which substantially affects employed persons in the household. Let me conclude by referring to the ILO Convention, No. 189, which deals with decent work for domestic workers. That convention must be ratified by the Spanish State. The Convention recognizes the particular conditions under which domestic work is carried out, and it is therefore necessary to supplement the general rules with the specific rules for domestic workers. Some of the measures contained in the convention are already in Spanish legislation, but progress needs to be made in others that relate to equal treatment between domestic workers and workers in general. We are faced with a complex problem that cannot be addressed from a simple answer. It requires, of course, a multi-focus analysis and mutual recognition of limitations and of the positive involvement and proposals on the part of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u134	Thank you, Mrs. San José. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Popula team, Javier Ruiz de Arbulo Cerio, made to the Chief of Work and Justice, about the Justice SIP platform." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, counselor. We're done with today's plenary. I ask you a question about your assessment of legal professionals' access to the JustiziaSIP platform. It is the electronic instrument by which all communications are carried out between, on the one hand, judges, judges, prosecutors, lawyers of the Administration of Justice, all officials of the Department of Justice who process judicial proceedings, and, on the other hand, professionals in the sector, who are either lawyers or prosecutors or graduates of justice... This platform, Mrs. San José, is illegal and you know it. It is illegal, because it violates the principle of equality as set out in Article 7 of Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013, which approves the consolidated text, counselor, the consolidated text of the general law on the rights of persons with disabilities and their social inclusion. It violates that principle of equality, because everyone who has any type of sensory disability cannot access the platform, because it is not accessible. A very serious error that had to have been solved from the initial design of the platform. It wasn't done, and they've had to go, not to this department you run, but to the previous one. When Mr Erkoreka was in charge of justice, people affected by this situation came, denouncing the impossibility of having access...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u136	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u137	...to the platform and they didn't get it. And you, Mrs. San José, are discriminating with your attitude towards particularly vulnerable people, women who suffer from sensory disability. What I ask you, what is your assessment of that situation, Mrs. San José? Why do you keep that attitude? And how long are we going to continue with this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u138	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. In reply, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u139	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I'm out of here. I'm out of here. I'm out of here. In the case of the JustiziaSIP platform, I do have to say that when I took responsibility in this department, we were moved to the problem with this issue. And from the very first moment we got to work. An audit was carried out by Ilunion, an ONCE-related company, which includes a report with a detailed assessment of the accessibility of the application with the aim of identifying the different barriers that may affect users and, in particular, those with some disability, as well as offering possible solutions to remove or reduce such barriers. Efforts to improve accessibility are currently under way as a result of the above-mentioned report.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u140	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u141	Counselor, in 2016, an affected person had to go to Ararteko to raise awareness of the discrimination that the Department of Justice was experiencing. The previous executive team did absolutely nothing. You, tell me you've done an evaluation. Indeed, the evaluation has been carried out since August 2018. It's accepted, it's accepted in the budget. Do you know what the department officials answer to this person when he asks when he will be able to have access like the rest of the professionals, without being discriminated against, without having to point out, because he is a diminished person, because he is the only one who has to take all the documents on paper to the courts? They tell him it's an economic problem, it's a lot of money. And he's just an affected person. No one tells you that in writing, no one gives you that official answer. The budget is accepted since August, 4,500 euros costs the computer solution. But they have forced this person to have, with the support of the Spanish National Blind Organization, to be the one to put the solution. Doesn't the Basque government have computer equipment? Don't you have computer auditors to correct your own error? Because this platform is a complete dislate. And it has had to be she who proposes the solution: those who audit, they, paying, those who audit the platform, put the solution to them. The budget has been approved since August last year, and they still tell you it's a lot of money, 4,500 euros. And this person is being discriminated against. Your Honor, this is a violation of the Royal Decree Law to which I referred. It is a very serious fault foreseen in 95.4.c of that legislative text. It is punishable by significant economic sanctions against persons who commit serious offences, because the right to work is violated, to the professional development of a person with a sensory disability. I find it very hard to call her a vulnerable person because I've known her for over 20 years and she's a hard-working lawyer and I don't see her especially vulnerable. But you are doing with your attitude, not only discrimination against a woman, but also illegality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u143	Well, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I have already explained to you in my first speech that, of course, with this audit carried out, the necessary adjustments are being made. And of course, of course, this has nothing to do with either budget or... It is simply an application in continuous improvement and of course a legal adaptation to the conditions that such application must meet in order for that person to carry out his or her work. I'm telling you, of course it's being done. That this need is being taken into account. But not only for this person who has such a disability in this sense, but for all persons who at a given time may have such a disability, any collective who must converge in this application. And we are looking at ways to address this issue, which I am already telling you is not a budgetary issue, but a matter that requires the law and that we are going to comply with. I assure you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-22.u144	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Then I'll read an institutional statement. The Basque Act is 21. With his running and his target. "As representative of the people, we also click the legislative. It's a possibility to click. Euskar's choice is to do this choice. To click is to take measures to ensure the rights of every citizen's language. "That is why we wish to proclaim a leap into engagements. The next phase of Euscara, the click, the activation. "We are in the time of the island, now is the time. In our opinion, we have an excellent opportunity to take commitments from every one's own circle and responsibility, of course, we've still got to start making them true, which are still dreams. "We are ready to click on it all. We are sure that those who can be fancies will be in the right way to make them true, both of us and of each other. "That is why we are ready to click on the eucalyptus, and to receive the following engagements. "One. A context that encourages a greater degree of use and fosters a new linguistic practice. Raspticism and relationships of Euskara. "Two. To achieve these goals, you can provide training and power tools to the speakers. By creating space for Euskal relations and encouraging that practice. "And three of them, if the eucalypcan population activates, encourage the use of the eucalyptus." Vitorial Castle, 22 March 2019. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was ten past two in the afternoon.
