ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u0	Good morning. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I declare that the vote of our colleague, Kerman Orbez Uribe, has been given to the spokesman of his parliamentary team. Let's start with the first point. First point in theme list: "Erkonomy development and the use of the Understruction Committee, made on the bill of legislation on the Euskal Autonomy Estribe. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to present a judgment? No? So, as there's a team shift, if you like, we'll go round to the teams' turn, or else we'll vote. Does the Basque Popular Group want to have a word this time? Yeah. Madame Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours... [[Berber]] As we go to the vote, Euscalia Sociialists want to be a part of this shift? Miss Rojo? No. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra? [[Berber]] There's a shift, or there's a vote. A vote description? Okay. Collect EH. Mr. Otero, what turn do you want to participate in? [[Berber]] Wait, wait. Mr. Becerra, yes? Do you want to go out too? Well, come out, come on! You give him over, don't you? [[(Laughter) (Berbost)]] Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u1	President, chief of departments, all members of the legislature, good morning. Our group is in favour of this law, in case it has not been made clear. He is in favour of this law, although it is true that when this law came before Parliament we were very critical of its content, we were critical of its forms, too, but our group claims to be a useful force, a useful force to improve people's lives, and we believe that saving energy is a good way to improve people's lives. Our group claims to be a group that has an alternative country project, an alternative country project that is based on our country's approach to the necessary energy transition, and we believe that this law will allow it to do so. And our group has a socio-economic model of the future, a sustainable, just and prosperous model, which precisely has to be based on energy savings and efficiency. That is why, when this law came, we were critical, but we got to work on negotiating its content, on improving its content through amendments, on reaching an agreement, and not only on reaching an agreement with the Government, and we were the first to reach an agreement with the Government, but also on extending this agreement to the rest of the House's forces, because we have never believed that the best way to pass a law is in a restrictive way, but as broad as possible. We are therefore glad together at Podemos, because by this law we will improve the lives of the people: saving energy saves money, and it is possible to live better by less resource. We're happy, too, because the energy transition from this country is in progress with this law. And after this law, the other two steps of transition will come to leave fossil energy and development of new energy, but these will be the next, which is the first and the latter we must now defend. And we're happy, too, because saving energy is a natural economic model, and we're saving up our own economic model and this is our only way or the only one. Saving energy is possibly the only way in which we can develop a different economic model. Not only do we save energy to cope with climate change – which also – we not only save energy to reduce our dependence on the fossil fuels we import – which also – we save energy to make a more modern society, to make a more modern, fairer and more sustainable economy. And in the face of the intensive use of energy that almost all economies have, it would be no more than our economy, that the Basque economy, is characterized in the near future by an intensive saving of energy rather than an intensive use of energy. Because, whether we like it or not, the Basque economy will never have fossil energies, no matter how much the government keeps looking for them in the basement. We are not going to have fossil energies, and perhaps our economy will never be the champion of renewable energies either. Therefore, we have nothing but champions in savings and energy efficiency, and that is why our group is happy with the law we passed today. It's not the best law, but it's a good law. It is a good law that has several pillars that should be highlighted, and I will spend very little time highlighting them. It is an effective law, it is an ambitious law, it is a binding law and it is an applicable law. It is an effective law because it will not only affect the public sector, as it was in its early days. We have achieved through negotiations with the Government that it is a law that can be transferred to the entire private sector, industry, transport, trade and housing. It is an ambitious law because it has concrete objectives to achieve within specific time frames. I want to highlight three of them: In December 2030 this country will abandon the use of diesel for energy uses, we will abandon diesel for energy uses. This is a landmark country, now that it is being said that we cannot dispense with diesel for other uses, with this law in December 2030 diesel for energy uses in homes, in industry, will be history. By 2020, 100% of the public vehicles that our administrations acquire will have to be powered by alternative fuels, and today that we are saying that we cannot dispense with diesel, our vehicles, next year, all our public vehicles will be with alternative fuels. And by 2030, public administrations will have to reduce their energy consumption by 35% and by 60 by 2050. Today, which says that we have to maintain our energy consumption, that we have to maintain our energy sources, this law makes it clear that by 2050 we will consume half the energy we consume today. But, moreover, this law is applicable because it has a sanctioning regime, which did not have the first law that the Government brought to Parliament, and because it has a financing instrument – and in this we also have to thank for the contributions that other groups, especially Euskal Herria Bildu, have had, have a financing fund for municipal investments of 100 million euros. It is an applicable law because it has money to apply from behind. Therefore, we have an effective, ambitious, binding and applicable law that could be better, but it is good. We have a good, effective, highly intentional, bonding, and applicable law. Now we have to start this law, now we have to fill it up, and our team's gonna be behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u2	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u3	Good morning, everyone. It is a good thing that you have reacted, Mr Becerra, because this Parliament does not fail to surprise me. It's been about to happen something unheard of, that the only group that submitted an amendment to the whole was going to be the only one that went down in the defense of the law, but, well... Apart from the anecdotes, we started from a critical position in this law, but it's true as far as the law has changed, the evolution of the law... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u5	...with obvious evidence that our position has also evolved and will today receive our support. We continue to say that the law we require should be much larger than this, but we look upon it as a step in the right direction. As I have said, we were critical at first, and based on specific axes on the correction of the whole of which we were almost a year ago. We said it was not necessary for the law to combine climates and energy, that it was a law written in the former law, and we find that the new European law, the law of law, has specially given us reason because it demands it. We said that he had had a few problems of participation in both ways: and the law was much altered after the amendment of those groups which maintain the government, and the whole new portion was not examined, and the whole development of the part which regulates the private sector remained in the air. We also said that he had small ambitions at first, and that it was important that he would appear without finance, and that he had no means of execution. Hence the sum of all this brought us to a full correction, and there was time to begin again and make things better, but the opposition did not see it, and we saw ourselves obliged to play in the context that would be accepted. I mean, we thought it was just like this when we said here that the opposition on the process of correspondence between the letter of the letterant d'you gave the government a sort of white check, that's what we said. But it is true, and I must confess with that white check which the Government and the sects that support the Government, I think they have acted with flexibility, because it was to do the contrary (at least knowing that the law would prove itself, as it were, to continue it). But I suppose that at first you said that there were 128 who were willing to accept much of it, and I think that it was to be raised here, and that you personally, Mr. Grabaris, have done your work, and there is a confession to the Chief of Power, and there is also a confession to confess, and I believe it has come from the beginning to the assent of our refusal to-day, and I think that this must be said to be the merit of all. I meant today to be unanimous... "Oh, it's always difficult and it's a delicate subject, but I think it's not only Mr. Grabaris who's been working at school, but I want to congratulate their honesty with Mr. López de Ocariz and Mrs. Rojo and Mr. Becerra. The development of this law will affect all institutions, and it is very important for us for the support of our government in many municipal institutions, which is why we also entered into the negotiation of the law. We said that even if the law did not solve several basic problems, if it took a lot of effort to discuss the basics of us, we'd have a lot of difficulty in trying to find out what was common to us, and it's got to be done and it's enough to make us happy. This is explained a little by the process, and I want to make a proclamation of our contributions. It has been spoken a little, and more has been talked of the benefits of this law, and we often agree in many things, but I wish to remark our contribution to-day. It seems to me that he might have seen our contribution there, some of you may not give importance to the cause, and that when we introduced the amendment of the law, the frame is important, and is now placed much better, the challenge before us is better defined in its two principal vectors, that is to say, in a climate change and in the waste of fossil resources. Another question, which is felt by our hand, is the financial and binomology of the perfect measures. We said at first that this law had a major deficiency, and that there was nothing left but a plan without financing and calculating measures, and that the acceptance of the law implies that it is extremely important for the development of the townships of the law. Thus, then, the perfect measures, such as have been introduced later, have a meaning; otherwise they had none. In addition to the influence of the principal influence of the law, by our amendments, they extend themselves to the public contracts which the Administration has signed, and this, in our opinion, belongs to the strategic. And it seems to me that we have also contributed to the ambition of ends in two senses: on the one hand, savings have increased, as has been said, that the administration of 2030th year must consume less than 35%; and on the other hand, the extensions and ends of the residual production have increased, and we have reached a congeneracy with the ends of Europe. We believe, too, that they are very important, that new goals of self-recognition are to be distinguished. Another of our principal contributions, I dare say, is that which is just because the law ordains that the plan of land-land (PTSa) which seems to be absolutely necessary to us. And this proceeds from an amendment of ours, and seems to us to be of importance to us, that this plan will be a harpsichord in the next decades for the work to come, and this also has been introduced. And in general, I would say that the whole sequence of the growth of the law by our amendments is more ordered in this latter version, in which the administration is to execute the periods (invincies, diagnosiss, initiatives, etc.) of the administration. Finally, I'd like to end up with a note. Now, once the law is approved, the growth of the law itself will be essential. Mr. Becerra said I don't know what year he's going to be. It must be, if things are done well. It seems to me now that development is important, one way, because there are a lot of things that we think are too much, mostly, waiting for the rules of fun in the private sector. So it is with you that the government has to give a quick solution to everything that has not been defined, and in that case, of course, we shall be careful. On the other hand, as far as the public sector is concerned, the growth and fulfilment of the law depends on the care of all authorities. Besides this new rule, not only rules, but will and political impulse will are sufficient for success. And success is important. And in this sense, I want to emphasise the will and political commitment of the United States of Euscala to complete what is allowed here to be nobly executed. I ask also of all the other groups, especially in the municipal and foru-lands which you may have on the following elections, that you should be obliged to play here in order to fulfil what is allowed to be done. And I'm just trying to get around the stage to work efficiently, because if you don't, it'll be useless to be here today. I want to conclude that, as reflection, it is important not to forget that today is important, although it is still a step ahead, that this country has almost nothing to do with the climate and energy, that we are in a rather short time engaged in an integral transformation to a climate change, and I invite you, taking advantage of the present, to act carefully in the discussions which we shall soon bring, and also in the difficult and complicated policy which we shall be obliged to carry forward in the course of our years. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u6	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians. Mr. Grabaris, for the vote. (Word) [[Pause]] Did you have the card in good shape? Well, we'll try it again, in case you don't mind, because once it's not... Is it now? Yours? Please try it. Get out. Get to the bottom... [[Berber]] It doesn't work. Come on, have another one downstairs. And let's vote because the machines are never bad. We vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u7	So the Act on the Esquivalence of the Euscal Autonomy Eremia Eresis has been accepted. Next, vote. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. From the People's Party we abstained in the vote on this draft law on the energy sustainability of Basque public administrations, as it was called until a moment ago. Now, as a result of this approval and the amendments incorporated it is entitled the Energy Sustainability Act of the Basque Autonomous Community, because it was thus adopted in the paper, given the change in the scope of application. As has been said, there has been an increase with the private sector, trade, industry, buildings and transport. For the Group of the European People's Party – here we have made it clear on numerous occasions – it has always been a priority to focus on the implementation of energy saving and efficiency measures as a basis for the energy transition, because it has been shown that they are economically profitable and energy-efficient alternatives, compared to other options, when achieving the decarbonisation objectives. This law provides for measures to boost energy efficiency in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and commits public administrations to an exemplary role in energy sustainability. Among other things, because the European directive requires this from 1 January 2019 for public administrations and the private sector by January 2021. We do not share the procedure or the innovative method used in the process of this bill, although then – right? – we put cotton on it and it seems that nothing has happened. No, this transit, with triple spindle included, we didn't pass. We don't like it, we don't think it's democratic and we don't think it can be repeated, let's hope it never happens again. Moving from a project whose scope was the Basque public administrations to a project involving private sectors, as has been said here, we believe that it requires much deeper analysis. A bill that enters Parliament with 28 articles, three additional provisions and two final provisions, in the amendments incorporated, has become 68 articles, three additional provisions, five final provisions. These incorporations do not have the Government's view, we do not know what the Government thinks of this, for example. But we also do not know the criteria of the sectors concerned, of trade, of consumers, of industry, of transport, and Mr Otero said this in the amendment of the whole: we do not know what the situation of each of these sectors is before the law and what difficulties it has to adapt, both sectoral and economic. 100 million euros, I don't know if there are few or many. I don't know, we don't know, we don't have... that bottom is good? Is that enough? We don't know. We demand a decarbonized building park on the 2050 horizon. We demand energy saving and efficiency measures from the industry, while demanding that it maintain a role that drives sustainable growth and, in addition, maintain employment. Do we really have this well-analyzed with the industry? We talk about financing, but we say, man, the public administrations in the field of their competences will finance... What if they don't finance it? What's going on? The one who doesn't, fine. Look, look, our amendments were related to the text presented, a third of the law that has been passed today. What about the rest? We have not been able to enter; therefore, I am very grateful for the tone that the groups of the Government, Mr Grajales, thank you, have incorporated some of our amendments, others have had sex. The one that referred to inter-administrative coordination, which is interdepartmental, and also between the administrations themselves, in the departments themselves, have not accepted them. We will already be working in this area, and surely, sooner than later, we will have to insist that this is necessary. As I was saying, look, we think the text, we'll see whether it's good or not, we'll see if it can meet or not. The events and decisions that are being taken this week, for example at the level of the Government of Spain, go against this law; therefore, to see how we conjugate and articulate all that. We, as I say, appreciate the tone of the groups of the Government and the rest of the groups, but we believe that it deserves a abstention on our part, both the process and the opportunities that we as a group have had to be able to incorporate into this law the criterion of the People's Group. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u9	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u10	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. The Socialist Party has voted in favour of this bill because we considered, as we considered in the beginning, that it is a necessary law, because addressing the issue of energy in a legal way was urgent and because it was also a demanded and absolutely enforceable law. Besides, it's a timely law. Energy efficiency and efficiency, of which all spokesmen have spoken, is a law that urges governments. Euskadi is an autonomous community with data of dependence I think more than worrying. Consumption indices are increasing, and therefore the debate is also about the model. It is important to talk about production, consumption and demand. This is a matter that began to work in the ninth legislature during a socialist government. Initially, as Mrs López de Ocariz said, she had a more concrete object, focusing on Basque public administrations, but the law passed today is more ambitious, with a condition greater than the one initially proposed. As we said in September of the 17th, when this issue was discussed for the first time, the law pursues the momentum, the promotion of savings and efficiency in the use of energy, not to mention the environmental component through the implementation of renewable energies. It is more than important to point out the almost unanimous support of this House for this law. Few times a matter of energy unites the demand for such different parliamentary groups, and it seems to be a starting point for future initiatives related to this matter. A country pact, which we talked about a few weeks ago, could be the final point which would lead the different political forces to work for a common energy policy, which would look to the future and which should take account of the different European regulations and which would bet on a cleaner and more effective model. Our vote in favour was more than justified from the outset. This bill was launched by the Patxi López Government, although this legislature has been improved and completed. As I said at the beginning of my speech, it was a necessary and indispensable law and it has incorporated almost all opposition parties. It is important to have broadened the scope of application, and from here it will be a demanded step that could conclude in a great energy pact. Once this law has been passed, it is now up to us to develop it and work for the stated objectives, so that from here, too, Euskadi can be an autonomous community with much less dependency data than we have today; therefore, from now on, we only have to start working. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u11	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u12	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. I'm going to make it short, because what's important is done. Today is a special day, one of those who make politics great. Who would have said that a year ago, when we were discussing the integrity of the EH Collect, a large majority would admit this law! And this is politics, beyond faction, for the mutual agreements of the various parties. To-day, no doubt, we have received an important law, which will have the right influence on our country, and I would like to congratulate those who have facilitated it, or helped to accomplish it: Miss Rojo, Mr. Becerra, Mr. Otero, inclusa la Senora lópez, que se nos acaba de descolgar; también, muchas gracias. If the road has once been steep, here is the result, the joy, the happiness of all. In fact, I want to thank him for the easy way and the tendency he's shown for contacting, to the head of the department, to all the energy managers and UVE employees, thank you very much for the heart. Almost two years ago this Parliament received this law, a law that dealt solely with public administrations, convinced that the Basque public sector had and has the capacity – and a lot – to save energy and had to assume its leadership role in carrying out the energy efficiency initiatives that this people had to undertake. But we were also convinced that our energy model was going through a crucial time to lay the foundations for sustainable growth in a decarbonized economy. And at this juncture we had to move into action and take a decisive step towards the transition to a new energy model. This change of model is an opportunity that we should not and could not miss, and I believe that in the future we remain in the same: we must not and cannot miss this opportunity that opens up before us and ourselves. After these two years, today we have adopted a much more ambitious text, and we already have a law of sustainability, savings and efficiency with capitals, a law that will be decisive and key to the construction of a sustainable future with economic, social and environmental benefits for the well-being of Basque society. We are faced with a transcendental law to advance towards a more efficient use of energy resources, to stimulate to improve the levels of energy efficiency and whose aim is to achieve the involvement of all. To that end, the Administration must have an exemplary role. The General Administration, the outlaws and the municipalities have ahead of them a task as difficult as it is exciting, a task in which we will not leave the local institutions alone, for which it will be a financial tool – not a fund – that will exceed 100 million euros and that will facilitate the investments derived from this law in the local administration. A tool that will be continuously reconstituted by means of the return of aid on the basis of savings returns. We are taking a fundamental step towards the transition to a new energy model that we as a country must face without delay. We have been talking for two years about the need to build a country pact on energy. I am convinced that today we put the first stone of it on one of the legs that make up the transition to a new energy model. Because the fight against climate change is one of the main motivations for action in the area of energy sustainability, and we must reduce in the short term dependence on fossil energy sources – and I would add that we must reduce dependence in general –; savings and efficiency are the other way along this path. This transition will require action to change patterns and modes of consumption, to shift the use of fossil fuels and to integrate renewable energy. This change can and must occur while maintaining a reasonable energy channel for users and ensuring security of supply at all times. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the next challenge we must face. I am about to conclude, Madam, that this arrangement, which we have almost made among the rest, is of great importance. I think the step we've taken is very important, and it's very important that the vast agreements we can get or can be obtained in this Chamber. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u13	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Second point on the subject list: "Mortion, María del López de Ocariz lópez de Muntaine, the members of the Populative Groups, the scope of the trade of sugar with the sector of sugar and beblem." Discipline and final resolution. Miss Lopez de Octariz, your turn is to introduce and defend this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. I present this motion, as a result of the question we raised to the Counsellor, concerning the critical situation in the beet sector in Álava, in the Basque Country. The reality today is that, after the completion of the quota system for the sugar-beet sector, and being totally dependent on the processing industry to give way to its product, the break in the agreement that maintained the interprofessional relationship between the producer sector and the industry – breaking the agreement by the sugar industry – has somewhat broken the path that production was taking in this transit by eliminating production quotas. As stated in the inquiry in 2015, the quota system was completed and an interprofessional framework agreement – the MAI – was formalised, containing the regulation of interprofessional relations in the sector, in order to give stability to this production. For the campaigns 2015-2016 and 2016-2017 the extension of quotas was still maintained, and from 2017 to 2018 and from 2019 to 2020, already without quotas that regulate – as I said – those reciprocal relations between beet producers and the sugar industry according to the legislation that is in force, European and Spanish. Among other things, this agreement set the prices and stated – and it is said – that the prices offered may be reviewed by mutual agreement between the parties if the undertaking contained in the agreement is substantially altered. It also specifies that the commercial offer of the agreement is unitary and indivisible, that it will be valid for the five successive campaigns and that this price will pay for all the beet that has been bought. The reality is that Sugarra, unilaterally, proposes a price reduction of EUR 6.5/tonne, without taking into account the circumstances set out in the agreement for this situation. This fall represents a 20 % cut in the final price, and it is precisely in this campaign that it has been the lowest production, with a 30 % reduction; they say that it is the worst of the last 20 campaigns. Therefore, we are in a critical situation of production, especially because high temperatures and humidity have led to more disease, which has meant that the fall in production has been important. You know very well that since the European Union, the amount of plant protection products that could previously be used to treat diseases has been eliminated, they are not being treated today; that is at a loss of production, and it is precisely in this campaign that there is a loss of production that industry makes that cut of EUR 6.5 per tonne. With this, the situation, as you can imagine, is critical. It is critical, alarming the sector, logically, and it is at a time of total uncertainty. Right now, on these dates, it's when beet producers buy the seed they're going to sow. They ask for it, they ask for it, they buy it, the one they are going to plant in May, that is, they are now planning their production because, if they are not going to plant beet, they have to plant barley, and barley is sown in March; therefore, they are at a very critical time of decision. There is a phase, as was said in the inquiry, of arbitration between the company and the agricultural organizations, which has been set for May, but the campaign, as I say to you, is already decided, now you buy the seed, and if you don't buy, you don't sow; and if you don't sow, there's no production and then the industry lowers production, so you can probably decide that Miranda, closes it, or continues to lower the price. With this, the situation requires action, in the medium and long term – as the Counsellor said here – but I think that at the moment we have to think about the next campaign, how we generate certainty for the sector to make a decision knowing what is being put forward and how the Administration can help or contribute to that production and the relations that the Basque Government is having – as it has been put forward here – with Azuarera confluence that an appropriate price is paid; at least, that there are no such losses of 20%, that 20% drop in the price of the beet. We agree with the counsellor that we have to go to arbitration, but, as I said, it is a little late and we also have to do something else to give certainty to the producer sector. Producers have insisted on how important it is for the Government to convey to them the possibilities they are considering for the next campaign and how to deal with the future. At the moment they are blocked and a meeting is essential for us as soon as possible. The producers have read the inquiry and what the counselor said here, but they need some concrete action. I am aware that the Government is either provoking or trying to get a meeting with the sector on the agenda as soon as possible and so that, whatever it has said in this House, they can put it on the table and make certain points. We tabled a motion, the government groups, and also Podemos and EH Bildu, tabled amendments. I think we've all come together in a text that I think... at least the producers have read it, it's good for them, more in the medium and long term than today. Today, what they want is a meeting on an urgent basis, and I believe that they are putting it into practice. We have reached a compromise amendment between all of us, where we say that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, first, to demand, together with the Álava Foral Diputación and the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, compliance with the Interprofessional Framework Agreement 2015-2020, which was signed between the agricultural and sugar organisations, and to establish the means necessary to monitor compliance with the Interprofessional Framework Agreement, and to establish sanctioning mechanisms in case of unilateral non-compliances that disqualify them from receiving any kind of aid or subsidy. We also say in the compromise amendment that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue the work of direct negotiation with the sugar plant, with the aim of maintaining the activity at Miranda's facilities during the forthcoming campaigns, with the aim of ensuring the stability of beet production in Álava. Similarly, "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, together with the Provincial Council of Álava and within two months, to draw up a project to analyse the viability of beet cultivation and its possible alternatives. To this end, the two institutions, together with the actors in the sector, will promote studies and alternatives to the towing sector in the medium and long term to promote the possible diversification of crops, prioritizing their economic and social profitability. The research centres AZTI and Neiker, as well as the HAZI Foundation, will collaborate in this work." In short, what we are asking here is that the study – which the advisor told us that it has already been done – should be moved to the sector and that all the possibilities, from the reports and studies they have, should be put on the table, that they should be valued and that together with the sector we should see what can be applied, where we can go, if we can continue to produce beet that is not sugar, that can also be used for other purposes, also if we can alternate with other productions... And, therefore, we, what we believe is that administrations need to work side by side with the sector to provide a solution to this critical situation that is currently suffering the beet sector in Álava. Many thanks to the groups for incorporating some measures into the compromise amendment, and our aim is to follow the production activity, see if they are making progress in that restructuring that we are asking for, and let us hope that it will bear fruit, that the agreement that they can reach with the Basque Government and with the Members of Parliament is good. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u15	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u16	Well, it is up to us to discuss in this second point the problem of the beet sector in Araba, but it would not be good for us to start discussing solutions without knowing first why we have a problem, why there is a problem in Araba and where it comes from. Mrs López de Ocariz told us that the sector has a critical situation. Why do you have a critical situation? What has made this sector critical? Well, very easy: the free market, the free trade. That is what has brought this sector to ruin; in less than 12 years, too. In less than 12 years free trade has destroyed a thriving local market such as the beet sector. Because if we don't talk about the causes and we just stick to the consequences, if we don't talk about who wins and we just talk about who loses – it's the farmers who grow the beet – when we start talking about solutions, we'll probably be talking about patches and not real solutions. The problem we have here is an agricultural, local market, that of the Alavesa beet, destroyed by the rules of international trade for the benefit of the multinationals of food and to which the local institutions – read the Diputación de Álava and the Basque Government – now have to help to keep it from disappearing. And you have to help him, of course you have to help him. Our group will support the compromise amendment, but no solution will already be good for this sector. No solution is going to be definitive. It's all gonna be patches until it's gone. Never, never again will the beet industry be the same after it has gone through the crusher of world trade. From 2006 to 2018, the numbers are terrifying. In Europe, 140,000 producers of beet have disappeared; 700,000 hectares of arable land have disappeared; 77 sugar plants have closed; 25,000 direct jobs. And the production of 5.3 million tons of sugar has been abandoned. Europe has become the second world exporter to be the second world importer. And if we do not know that it is free trade that has brought us here, we will not be able to come up with the right solutions. Because when the European Union reforms the beet market, at the request of a ruling by the World Trade Union for a complaint from Brazil, Australia and Thailand, the reform it does is to completely sink the market and to put this market in the hands of multinationals. When the sugar market is opened, it is clear that, as soon as the sugar beet market is opened, 80% of world production, which is sugar cane, is going to flood the European markets. He knew perfectly well. Why are we so sorry now? Who did they support? Who was the Minister of Agriculture? Elena Espinosa of the Socialist Party. She was the Minister of Agriculture. In a few years' time, in a few years' time, the European Parliament will have to vote on the agreement already being negotiated with Brazil and Mercosur, the free trade agreement, the agreement that will finally bring down the tariffs we have right now on sugar. What are the MEPs voting on leaving the May elections? What will Mrs Izaskun Bilbao vote for? What will the MEPs of the People's Party and the Socialist Party vote on? Are you going to vote in favour of Mercosur's agreement? Are you going to vote in favour of the dot in the Alavesa beet sector? I'd say so. And of course we have a problem, Mrs López de Ocariz has said very clearly, and it is that the farmers of Alavesa produce beet but cannot transform it. The plants of transformation were public, were public in Spain. Who privatized them? Who gave Ebro Sugar to British Foods? Mrs Elena Espinosa of the Socialist Party. Of course, from those dusts come these muds. Of course we have a problem! Right now we have a multinational that controls 80% of the state transformation market. What do we do when that multinational imposes on us the prices it's going to pay? Of course, we have to defend our farmers, but they are sold. They're sold. Because in 2021 the deal ends, and the next one will be at half price. And now we ask the Basque Government and the Álava Parliament to help, to push. Where do we push now? Where do we push now? What are we going to vote on with the following free trade agreements? We've got the beet problem. The problem is the following markets: milk, potatoes, barley, wheat. What are we going to vote on then? Canada, after CETA, has doubled its sugar exports to Spain. He's doubled them. Who voted in favour of CETA? Of course, it's very easy, it's very easy to talk about the fact that farmers have a problem with beet. No, no, we have the problem in the country, we have the problem in the country. The problem we have, we have it when the political class focuses on providing solutions to a problem that the political class itself has created at European level. And our group has to be necessarily critical. Because of course we are going to support the farmers, but I look at the solutions, because here comes the second part. We are saying "We have to improve the productivity of our beet industry at all costs." It's impossible. The agroclimatic conditions of Álava do not give for more. Right now, sugar cane production is infinitely more profitable anywhere in the world to produce sugar. And sugar beet production in France or Germany with drought is more productive than the irrigated alavesa. What do we do in Álava? Use irrigation, more and more water, more and more water, more and more fertilizers. And what's going on? That we have more and more fungi, because the soil is mineralized with fertilizers and fungi camp to its width. And then we have to use plant protection products and then we get the price of the ton at a price that is totally incompetitive. We've improved on mechanization, but it's not enough. La Rioja is next door and has more productivity per hectare. We're never gonna be able to compete in productivity. We've destroyed a market for nothing, for nothing. And in Álava, from 2006 to 2016, there remains a quarter of farmers. And now we don't get out of our hairs, if that's the case. The solutions are set out in the compromise we have signed. Crops must be diversified. Continuing to grow sugar beet to produce sugar does not lead to anything. The counselor said it the other day and for once, for once, I'll even agree with her. I'd like that, I'd like the sugar beet to have a future, but it doesn't, possibly. And this must be said to farmers and women farmers, they cannot be fooled any longer. You have to tell them where the problem comes from and who voted to have this problem. It is very easy to present initiatives here in pre-election times and we all like to tell farmers that we are going to solve their problems, but it may not be so. There are places where agro-ecological measures are being put in place rather than increasing productivity. In Andalusia it is trying to rotate crops with cotton and tomato. As I say, lower nitrogen fertilizer fertilization reduces the incidence of fungi and lower irrigation helps to have a less mineralized soil. We have to look for solutions, we have to look for alternatives, but please don't be fooled, because this sector has already sunk. At least, let's learn from this so we don't sink the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u18	Yes, hello, good morning. Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. We're exhausting a model. I said it – I think 15 days ago – in this very House and today I repeat it again. I think we're exhausting a model. And, more than that, we are giving hope that does not correspond. Not that I want to be pessimistic today, I'm going to try to be optimistic all day. Let's see if I can get it! Here, at 12 noon there will be an assembly in Arkaute of the beet sector, the beet collective will join there. For what? Well, to get information, to get advice, what you have to do, actually. Okay, but we're cheating on them, I'm sorry to say. We will tell you what news the next campaign brings, we will tell you what seed you have to sow the next campaign, we will tell you how the current situation of the sugar plant is. We're going to tell them all that, as if nothing happened, as if life were still the same, as if on top of it we forgot that the company has broken the interprofessional framework agreement, the one that signed in 2014, the one that took us until 2020 and that, of the bad, bad, guaranteed conditions. So in the assembly that is going to start at 12 noon, few new things will have, beyond continuing to push them to sow beet, to do again as until now, without knowing very well what will happen next. That this crop is exhausted, I wouldn't say so, I think we're exhausting it. Not only this crop, but also this model. I would say that we are facing a rural conversion, I do not want to say a beet conversion alone. It is a rural conversion; above all, because threats come from outside, they come from those who should be helping to keep this going. That we are talking about today that the sugar plant has broken an agreement seems absolutely embarrassing to me, when it is the industry that would have to push for this to be maintained, when it is the one that really benefits from all this. I'm going to make a prediction; I hope – indeed – I'm wrong, I hope I'm not right, but I'm going to do it, because I think we're so much closer to that and because, besides, I've already said, we shouldn't fool anyone. Miranda's Sugarhouse is going to take very few years to close, and that, the sector is seeing, coming, but no one wants to look forward, no one wants to face it. Why? The sugar plant is not grinding the tons of sugar that are sufficient to be profitable. Here I have an article from yesterday that said that it has dropped by 400,000 tons that it had planned, it will grind 334,000. That means that it has not even reached the limit that corresponds to it, the limit that it has to be profitable. The Sugarpot has it perfect: "The tons have not entered me, this is not profitable, gentlemen, we close. It's not my fault, it's one of those that can't produce beet for me." It's all right, it's all right! And to all this, what's next? So the agri-environmental aid, which is so perfect, is super green, it is absolutely sustainable, as we like to say now, but it is a deception, a deception at five years, too. That is to say, this deception of agri-environmental aid has a specific duration of five years. What's going on? That we have spent four years with the sector involved in this agri-environmental aid. What's going on? That these agri-environmental aid forces you to continue producing beet for five years and we are in the last. Who dares not sow beet next year? Who dares to have to pay back the last four years of money because he has not kept the pact? I, if I'm a sector, I'll be planting beet again next year and I'll see if they buy it from me, if they don't buy it from me, if they pay me, if they stop paying me, but I do. Of course, I do not know whether it is up to this House, but I do understand that all the agents surrounding the beet sector, like the primary sector as well as society, that is, that all the agents who are, municipalities, gangs, must be put on a bet. That bet, what is it, more of the same? There we are not going to be found, because we have to save the sector, said my colleague Becerra, we have to save the sector. And we say save, we say we have to get them to reach the end of the year, we say they stay in the UVI, but don't die at all, it's not going to be that then as a government we haven't managed to keep this sector as beautiful as we know it. You said that a sector has just disappeared at full speed. No, it's not entirely true because the farms, the pieces, the earth, are there, the pieces are worked, it's happening; something else is in the hands of whom, but that's already the second question. It said – it is true – that the sectors have been falling. Falling at all, at all, no, it's true, but what about the potatoes, the potatoes? In Álava we've been potatoes all our lives. What about the milk cow? I don't know if I'm much mistaken, but we're going around the 40-50 farms that are actually producing in a formula. What about what was done to produce food? We're losing the bet a little bit 40 years ago. I was saying at minute one: we're having a problem, this model is running out. And now it's time to make the bet. I'm not sure if it has to be now, it's now because we have no choice, because we make these strategic bets – I believe – every time we go through this rostrum. I make strategic bets every time I come here. We're going to make a strategic bet for this sector. And how long do we keep making strategic bets until they close? How long? Indeed, the objective of the transaction is common, but I am going to ask a question: today the Miranda Sugar plant breaks the interprofessional framework agreement, well, and all of a sudden it says it is going to lower 20% of the price for the next campaign. Well, everybody takes it. What would have happened if it had been the other way around? What would have happened if a beetkeeper, what would have happened if a beet collective said it did not comply with the agreement, that it does not sow this year? What would have happened: would we have come here to defend the sector? Have we come here to defend that you have not fulfilled the agreement, that you have fulfilled it? I have doubts. The company is the one that's running all this. And the company isn't doing it because it's super lucky, which is that we're not going to punish it, that no one's going to punish it, that even if we get to arbitration there by May, the company is going to keep coming out with its own. Here he put in another article, also these days, of 28 January: "The framework agreement on beet is in danger". No, no, the deal was already broken on January 28th, there was no danger or anything, sugar was going to close it, it was going to break it and I knew it was going to win on top, so I would apply it directly. So what are we doing here, looking at the causes, looking at the failure of the model? No, let's set the guidelines to move on. From Euskal Herria Bildu, I think we have always had it clear: you have to make transitions, transitions. The same for the whole sector is not true, but the same for one is true. And they have to be agro-ecological transitions, transitions to another model that possibly gives service, answers, not for everyone, indeed, but if it's worth it, that's where we are. We have to look for strategies. A few months ago in Araba an agri-food strategy was adopted, in addition, unanimously by all groups. We understand that it can be the formula, that we have to believe it. It's no use making big statements of intent if we don't know very well where to go. Araba has a lot of assets to be able to make an effective, real agri-food strategy, giving alternatives to this sector that goes into bite, which is about to fall through the ravine. We must try to give them solutions and we will be there in that sense. I'm going through sheets of everything I had written, because I don't think I'm going to say anything else. Indeed, my colleague Becerra said, the production costs are very high. Indeed. Do not forget that we are with the improvement of the Alava waters, that we are with a reservoir in Barrón that seems to go forward... He puts my hair on top, because we're still going to do a watering improvement project. Indeed, irrigation will have to be necessary, but let's go back, let's see for what, let's see for what: if it makes us a new reservoir, if we don't need it, if we want to diversify crops, if we want to diversify and if we want to keep people alive. Don't forget, because there are more and more farmers who don't even live in the villages anymore. Something needs to be done. I'm gonna finish it. Here, the company always wins. And above all, I'm going to talk about help now. If the company broke this agreement, if the company fell by 20%, it knew that the Administration was going to go out to rescue the sector. That ransom means that the money is going to go over the whole sector and it's going to go straight to Miranda Sugar. The current accounts of the Alavese and beet farmers are going to be exactly the same as bad, because all public money is going to go to Sugar. We are financing money from administrations to industries that threaten us once after another. So I'm sorry to be so pessimistic, I hope to change during the day and turn around, but it's gonna cost me, actually. From Euskal Herria Bildu, of course, we agree to enforce the framework as a defence of the sector. We have no other remedy. We will also take action, including sanctions, whatever it takes for the company to comply. But if there is nothing to be done, let us put the measures in place for the second part. We must look for a strategy – I like to call it agri-food, because I understand that it has to go together with food – but, well, it has to be all the agents united and coordinated in the primary sector – logically – but also in the rural environment, and that means a guarantee of social, ecological and economic profitability for the sector. In short, I have already observed that the model of agriculture policy has been a failure. The consequences of this example have come to this house over and over again, and we continue without applying the basic measures. We can't afford to sell even our spinster, and we must be ready to start another pattern, for that purpose there is need for a land's support to secure the development of the place, and above all for the support of the people. The situation of the sector is critical, it's critical, and our responsibility is to spread our options. In front of the present pattern, we'll make proposals from the EH collect in this pattern to get a tolerable transition. That's our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u19	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u20	President, ladies and gentlemen. Surely, if the interprofessional framework agreement had not been unilaterally violated, we would not be talking about beet. And that is why the initiative of Mrs López de Ocariz is right, because it seeks to recompose this agreement, to try to influence politically so that this is achieved, and at the same time, knowing that it is a sector that has a trajectory and that has a difficulty in the market, looking a little further and, of course, for the moment to be able to defend that the processing plant to which the Alavese producers arrive with their products continues to exist, and also to study alternatives in the medium-long term that allow those field products that have difficulties in competing to be oriented towards other productions that may have more profitability. I think that is the initiative, that is the spirit, the interest, and that is precisely the unanimous amendment that has been agreed between the five groups in this House. Therefore, I believe that, beyond the speeches, at the bottom of what is brought here and in the result of what is brought here, I believe that there is a position that is logic and reasonable. We have a problem, a problem of one-sided price reduction of a part of that interprofessional framework agreement, and we therefore want that to be recomposed. We are asking the institutions to come in and share the problem and influence to solve it, and all the Basque institutions have done so – today the Parliament is doing it – and so we are also working from the Basque Government, trying to get the agreement back on track. This is the part that seems to me to be the substantial part of the debate. From there you can make many reflections, you can make the reflection of whether trade has to have borders or not... I believe that at present there are some very remarkable and very important experiences in the world that when trade borders are created, economic problems and a very important economic crisis are created, which goes on a chain and is striking randomly in many countries. And, therefore, this is a matter that seems to me that perhaps in another framework can be dealt with in depth, if the trade of the world in which we live, of that world of globalization, is a trade that has to have borders, and which borders, and each where it is established and for what. I believe that there are many experiences of economically strangled countries, settled in poverty, even though they are rich, for establishing political borders, and I believe that with this we must be very careful. That the agricultural sector, like other sectors, needs democratisation in transformation and distribution seems to me to be absolutely impervious, but what is democratisation in distribution and transformation? Is it to establish borders or is it to go to an integral participation by producers, not only in producing but also in transforming and also in distributing? There are very important experiences within the European Union, there are super powerful European regions in this area, which not only produce but also process, distribute, which until the end have the point of sale, which even have their own financing system that allows them to make a significant profit from their products and guarantee the sale of their products and be able to reasonably meet costs by direct intervention of the producers themselves in these systems of social economy in the final price. Therefore, I believe that this is the path to be explored, a path that gives vertigo, that gives fear, that here, in that sense, we have a delay in relation to what can be that production and trade policy that exists elsewhere, but it seems to me that this is a path that must be tried with more intensity, with more determination, with greater grouping of producers in all sectors in order to be able to make that integral itinerary and to be able to benefit from the profitability of their own products; and, well, I believe that this is the way. But perhaps this is a reflective and analytical part for another time, and not exactly for the initiative that Mrs López de Ocariz had brought us, which is how to recover in the short term – which is the only thing that can be done – because by the next two, three months, we will not be able to transform the field, there will be no alternative products, there will be no transformation in another way, there will be no sale of the product in another way... The only thing that is going to happen in a very short time, at a time when we are deciding what is the profitability of this product to buy seed and to be able to sow again, is the recovery of the price. Therefore, I believe that this House has done well, it has done well for all the groups to focus what is the provision of the compromise amendment on this price recovery and to ask everyone to get involved in order for the interprofessional framework agreement to be complied with. The agreement, as has already been mentioned, has a follow-up table, it also has an arbitration system, it is in place; the dates of the arbitration system are obviously eluded from us, but, well, it has that system, and let us even hope that we do not have to get to arbitration and that political influence and political adherence to producers to simply recover what is fair, which is compliance with that interprofessional framework agreement, can be done before that month of May. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u21	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u22	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Well, less bad that we had signed unanimously, because, if not, they'd be flying the seats around here! Pim-pam! And the truth is that this is not the first time or certainly the last time we talk about beet in this Parliament, the same in committee as in plenary. And although there are people who find it funny to talk about beet, for me, and for our group, it's as relevant as talking about the Navy. Beet is a crop that has been working properly in Araba for many years, mainly because there is a processing industry, which historically establishes contracts with farmers and therefore guarantees prices that, better or worse, in turn guarantee the profitability of the sector. They could improve more or less the productivity of beet and profitability, but always within a guarantee of production quotas and the guarantee of previously contracted figures. To this it should be added that both the producing sector and the processor – both, moreover, very structured – worked together through a research association to, in this way, continue to improve the profitability of the crop. It has not been perfection either, but it must be recognized that, within the agricultural sector, it has been the most structured and the best income securer, so that for many years a sectoral stability has been guaranteed which, like everything else, was not free of vavenes. The figures, I am not going to repeat them again, because they have been said as active and passive, but I am going to point out that, despite everything, over 13 years, imports have been reduced to more than half and the area to more than 40 %. This gradual abandonment, which is due both to the fact that some farmers are already of old age and because profitability has fallen, is going to be accentuated, is being accentuated by the EU's decision to eliminate quotas since 2017, causing a sectoral earthquake. And here I'm going to make a letter. The problem is that the EU takes the decision to end quotas, not international trade. Mr. Becerra, I am not made up to be the fault of the CETA agreement, as if Canada were the world's super-producer of sugar beet. Canada, exactly, has fallen by 10% in three years, has 7,600 hectares of beet. And only Araba has 1,500. Do you think Canada is going to break the European beet production market because it exports 7,600 hectares...? Hey, don't make things up. Moreover, according to the latest data from the European Union, the CETA agreement has meant that the European Union has exported 8% more food to Canada. Europe has closed the border to the sugar cane of many countries because we have overproduction, because the quota has been eliminated. It is not a problem of the CETA agreement, nor of the TTIP, that in that you and Donald Trump agree, that it is not good. On that, look, look at it, because you both agree. But it has nothing to do with the CETA agreement. Canada doesn't make beet, for nothing, nor for them. If it were maple syrup, then, man, we might think that they are going to break the world market for maple syrup, but sugar beet, for nothing. Look, from that year on, and especially in the European countries further north than ours, really because of the removal of quotas, have produced much more Germany and France. France only 30 %. And, of course, you don't have to be a doctor in mathematics to find out that, in the same market, if you go up production, the price drops exactly in the same proportion. And the price has fallen by 36%. That is what is happening, quota liberalization, not the international market. And in this context it is when the sugar mill decides to lower the price, that we radically disagree, and we want it to be reversed and that is why we agree in the transaction. If to all this we add that chance, in this case the weather of the last year – it has been the worst – then it has reached the worst production of the last 20 years, and therefore we have the perfect storm for a sector historically settled in Araba to point to a crisis, crisis of many people, of their families and of the rural world, adding to this the potential abandonment of agricultural lands, which is what we must worry about. Throughout this sectoral deterioration movement, both the Foral de Álava and the Basque Government, by the way, have not left the beet industry alone at any time. Already in the first round of price cuts, the two institutions agreed on a sectoral plan from 2007 to 2010, with the objectives of maintaining the area of cultivation and increasing competitiveness through technological improvements and, in addition, adopting measures planned for sustainable production, integrated production; technological and environmental improvements were made. And in 2010 a second support plan was approved, in which administrations spent EUR 6 million, and the area, although slightly increased, productivity did increase by more than 15%. After the sectoral plans have been completed, the de minimis aid system, which is authorised for sectors in crisis for a maximum of three years, is authorised by the EU. At the same time, the 2015-2020 RDP approved agri-environmental aid, which is still being implemented today, which means reducing productivity by lowering irrigation, lowering the subsidy, and compensating it for the lack of half-money production between the Basque Government, the Member State and the European Union. I mean, there's also no increase in production, in subscription, in irrigation... Quite the opposite. Agri-environmental aid is quite the opposite. You come here, you invent one thing, and since no one brings you the opposite, it's fixed there. And I think it's all right with half the truths. That's it! That is to say, in conclusion, the Basque administrations remain in contact with the sector, cooperate with them and have not left them alone at any time. Another thing is that in spite of everything it continues to be abandoned. I am saying, there is an ageing of the large agricultural population and they are also beginning to find other agricultural products that are less likely to make less effort and less investment to achieve the same or higher profitability. And from there it is already where we have to choose different paths, once we have made the diagnosis of what is happening, being one – which is not necessarily the most logical – that of giving continuity to the cultivation, for which two basic questions are needed, which are the continuity of the sugar plant itself and the continuity of contracts with guaranteed prices. Hence the first two proposals of the amendment. The problem of today's beet is the result of a way of making the European Union, I insist, with which we, our group, totally disagree. Much more logical would be to return to the quota scheme which has so much balanced in general many crops in the European Union. But, regardless of whether we demand it, we are not going to go crazy waiting for that round of quotas, because in view of the current and foreseeable situation of the future – without quotas, for the moment – we have to wait a while for the European production system to be balanced, although I believe that it is most likely that the countries of the North – France and Germany – will continue to increase sugar beet production, because although they are less productive, they are much more profitable. Not because they throw less fertilizer, no, but because of something as simple as meteorology: there it rains much more and they don't need watering. And watering, the cost of watering, is what really causes the profitability here to be lower, even though the productivity is higher. They're much more efficient than we are. And already on the continuity of Miranda Sugar, very important, it would be an essential aspect, it is a decision that it turns out that, in addition to being located in another autonomous community, it depends on a multinational located in Britain, although we can discuss whether the Basque Government also has to buy the shares of that company and we are thus gradually colonizing the country and taking companies everywhere. If we add to this that the sugar – a product obtained in this crop – is increasingly accused of all kinds of sanitary trophies by the health administrations, and you can also lower and blame Mr Darpón for lowering the price of sugar beet because the health departments are telling us to take less sugar, which is also relevant, but it turns out that this is also important to lower the sugar market and therefore lower sugar prices. The blame lies with the Basque Government and Mr Darpón, almost certainly. Then we'll have to open up to other possibilities. You will have to see the potential of the surface today dedicated to beet for other types of crops, because, as with many other things, the world changes, for good or for bad, as you look, but evolves, and it is possible to look beyond the sugar beet. And when we talk about the agricultural sector, we must not forget that today the most urgent thing is to talk about the priority of keeping the arable area active, mainly in order to maintain economic activity and therefore population in rural areas. Territorial structuring is essential in an increasingly polarized world towards the cities, and in order to cohesion the territory we must maintain economic activity in the rural world, being the most logical and reasonable agriculture. Beyond the cities, Mr Becerra, there is countryside. There is a capacity to produce food and there are fewer and fewer people. It is essential to give meaning to the countryside through agricultural productivity and thus fix people in the territory. For this reason, first, it is necessary to ensure that the payments due from the sugar plant are complied with; and then, regardless of whether beet cultivation can continue in a reasonable way, it is necessary to work to ensure that the alternatives to this crop are installed in a region that needs it, a region that, beyond agriculture and food, today has little opportunity to generate economic development. Therefore, in conclusion, we call on the Government and the Arab Parliament, together with the sector itself, to work towards a recovery of the productive capacity of the farms and the soils that are at risk today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. We'll open an answer shift. Yes, from there, Mrs. Łódź de Ocariz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u24	Thank you, Madam President. If you allow me, from the seat, to thank all the groups, apart from that, well, we each have our concepts and models to a greater or lesser extent defined; and that they are exposed is not wrong, but the important thing today is the agreement. The agreement that, as Mr Telleria has said, makes it possible for arbitration to be resolved as soon as possible, for us to work in the medium and long term to see how we restructure the sector. And one thing I have said before and would like to stress is that, at this time, what the sector is really asking for is a meeting with the Basque Government and the Foral Chamber of Álava to, as I say, generate the certainty necessary for the production of the next campaign to be faced under conditions more acceptable than the situation they have so far. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u25	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Anybody else want to talk? Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u26	Well, I don't want to detract from the deal, Mrs. López de Ocariz, believe me. Of course this agreement is important, it is an agreement that has already been reached on the Alava Junta, but it is not enough, it is not enough. As much as we agree here, evil is already done, evil is already done. I should like to draw attention to the fact that Mr Telleria feels alluded to, when this is possibly the only speech I have had in my term of office that I have not been involved in with the Basque Government. That I did not mess with the Basque Government, I have made it clear that the Basque institutions are doing what they can, but it will not be enough. The problem is not here; the problem, indeed, we have here, but it has not been caused here nor can it be solved here. And it's a drama, that's a drama, because that makes it impossible for Basque institutions to give a satisfactory answer. Whatever you do, it'll always be little and it'll always be bad. I have indeed criticised the fact that the aid which the Member of Parliament gave at the time was to improve productivity. I have here a December 2013 news: "The Álava Diputación allocates 273,000 euros to improve competitiveness in the production of beet, applying the Sectoral Plan of the Beet. The technical measures included in the Plan – says here, Mr Tellería – aim to improve productivity in the face of possible liberalization in the procurement of beet." And what I have said is that, as much as we try to improve productivity, Álava will never be able to compete in productivity either with Germany, or with France, or much less with the cane-producing countries. There's our problem. It's not Canada's problem. The problem is called Brazil. It was Brazil that filed the lawsuit with the World Trade Organization. It was the loss, the defeat in that demand, which caused the European Union to need to reform the beet market. But now we are not obliged to sign a new free trade agreement with Mercosur or Brazil. I again place some of the groups that are here to say in the next five years, if that agreement with Mercosur reaches the European Parliament, what they are going to vote on. What are you going to vote for? Here are the last options of the Alavesa sugar beet. And besides, these free trade agreements, I don't know, some may be surprised that I am against the free market. I'm in favour of fair markets. And today free trade does not guarantee fair markets, neither here nor there. The only guarantee is that the multinationals will win. That's our problem. And above are those multinationals with which euphemistically they are called arbitration agreements, arbitration systems. Arbitration systems are anti-democratic, because they shirk the judicial system. It strikes me that if right now Miranda de Ebro Sugar is failing to comply with the agreements, farmers cannot go to trial, they have to go to an arbitration system, it is undemocratic. Anti-democratic. And I have to match Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, the company always wins, the multinational always wins. British Foods, which wants to reduce 25% of what it pays to beet farmers, won 1.3 million pounds before taxes last year, before taxes. He's not losing money, he's still winning. And British Foods is the owner, by the way – and this, I say for lovers of responsible consumption – of Primark. I am saying this because it is not going to be that we make a demonstration in favour of the beet industry in Madrid and end up buying at Primark cheap clothes that the multinational uses to exploit in other countries people who produce those clothes. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Collect EH. Mme. Lopez de Lariyabe must not speak a word. Basque Socialists... Not even. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u28	Eskerrik asko. Just a minute, because I'm more uncomfortable from there, it costs me more and I feel more comfortable supporting myself here. No more. Look, he has not been involved with the government, it is true, but he has been involved with the parliamentary groups that we subscribe to and support the CETA pact in a parliamentary debate. And I have come to show you – and you, when you read the minutes, will see it – that you have told us that the CETA agreement is responsible for Europe's beet flood, that Canada, textually said, "duplicated its export." Canada's doubling of beet may be from a beet to two beets, that may be. Because they don't even produce for my community of neighbors, really, that they only have three times the surface of every Arab, that is, don't come to me with those things! From there, we have to work. Man, I'm saying at least we have a unanimous agreement, which is what's left, and the debate, well, will pass, and it hasn't rained the seats of one against another, even though it's missing a movie. But productivity has increased. We will never be able to have..., not productivity, we have much more productivity than France, much more; we are less profitable. It's just that we don't confuse the "words", we produce a lot more beet per hectare than France, but France has no water, it has water that falls, and that makes them efficient and we don't. That's why they're up 20%, because it doesn't cost them much when you've removed Europe's quotas. That's the problem, and from that problem, diagnosed like this – not the fault of Canada or Brazil, the fault we have in Europe – we have to make decisions, and the decision is to talk to farmers and say, "Maybe sugar beet is not the best, maybe it's something else." And, besides, if we do it together with a transformation project, better than better, which is what it has to be. Because the beet has worked well because it had a processing company that signed contracts. We'll have to imitate it. Therefore, there is no need to be afraid to change the product, the important thing is to continue to use the agricultural soil, that we do not lose it and that there are still people, to be able to be young, in the municipalities, because, if not, this country is busy focusing all of us in the big cities and losing the territory and losing the capacity, the strategic possibility of continuing to produce food. And we'll have a lot of biodiversity, but we'll miss a species, homo sapiens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u29	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that we've ended our discussion, we're going to vote with the Basque Populars, Euskal Socialists, together with Podemos, EH, and the Eubertarians, the middle-line correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u30	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Motion, myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Basque Group, the final abode of a European football team as a San Mames. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. Miss Llanos, it's your word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u31	Gracias, señora presidenta. Good morning, everyone. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u33	It is true that in this Parliament and in my group we are multidisciplinary. We went from talking about the beet to talking about sporting events, to talking about football. 15 days ago we presented an inquiry related to a sporting event to be held in San Mamés, a field that, as I said at that time and I want to repeat now, without prejudice to the fact that there are other camps in Euskadi that are also, but I believe that San Mamés is a field of which we have to be proud all the Vizcains and all the Basques. The truth is that, after what had been said at the Bizkaia General Councils when asked about this matter, I thought that really, when I presented the inquiry, and so I was going to be answered – because it was said there, at the Bizkaia General Councils, it was said that we had arrived late – I thought that here I was going to be given information on how the proposal we were doing, what its future was, and I thought that with the explanations that the counselor was going to give me it would not be necessary to present the motion because, really, the proposal that we are bringing here today was in the process. However, the counselor told us that he knew nothing. Moreover, his knowledge of what I was asking him founded him on two press notes and ended his speaking time by pointing out – and I quote literally – "I deduce from his words and from my ignorance or ignorance at the moment that we have no initiative." The truth is that our group cannot believe – I can't believe myself – that if there were any initiative on this matter that had already taken place, the Basque Government would not know it. We can't believe it. Yesterday, when this same issue was discussed at the Bizkaia General Councils and also in this case – because it was already a motion – the groups supporting the Government at which meeting it had been decided, how the request had been made, what competition had been specifically asked, whether there was any document, so nothing was answered. Therefore, the motion that we are presenting today is justified, because, moreover, at the time, by the Bizkaia Foreign Office referred to this initiative as an aspirational initiative; with this, it seems that there is nothing at all. The Basque Government does have to say, because together with the Bilbao City Council, the Bizkaia Diputation and the Athletic are part of San Mamés Barria. It is true, if one goes to the statutes, that the management and exploitation corresponds to the Athletic, but it is also true that there is an obligation to assign the field to each of its partners for the realization of events, in the circumstances and conditions that appear in annex 4 of that convention that was signed in his day. Therefore, as I say, the Basque Government has much to say and has much to contribute for a sporting event like the one we propose to come to San Mamés, in short, to Bilbao, Bizkaia and Euskadi. As I said in the interpellation, the initiative, if it is seen from a strictly sporting point of view, as a sporting event that can be used in the general interest of citizens, if political or party interests are left out, I think it is an initiative that we can agree with. Because, as I say, it has no political connotation, because they will agree with me that football may or may not like it, but, of course, the taste for football – which he likes – is absolutely cross-cutting. I think public officials, representatives and voters from all over the Basque political spectrum like football, we see them in football and they support football. It is a concrete initiative, yes, but it is an initiative that does not contradict what has been proposed by other groups of the possibility of organizing or holding other kinds of sporting, cultural events that are brought to Euskadi. However, what we were proposing is very concrete and very simple, and it is the possibility that San Mamés will host the end of a European football competition. And apart from that sporting connotation – which, as I say, I do like football, but it's not about personal tastes –, apart from being an event for Basques who like football, it has an economic impact, that is, it can have a positive influence on all Basques, whether they like it or not. When international sporting events have been held in Bilbao, the Basque Country, the economic benefits have been clear. In the interpellation of the data of the rugby finals held in Bilbao or of the stage of the Cycle Tour to Spain, the direct economic impact, give the data of the direct economic impact, of the number of people who came to Euskadi, who stayed here overnight, who went to our restaurants, who took our transports... And the indirect, in the form of people, of countries that saw the television broadcasts, of the publicity that was obtained, of the publicity that these visitors are going to make of Euskadi, because it was thus valued as a tourist destination, or of the possibility that they themselves repeat the visit. The population of Bilbao also considered that the event had had a positive impact. Data from other cities that have organized or are going to organize sports events of this type also support it. Thus, for example, the final of the Champions to be held in the Metropolitan Wanda will have an expected impact in economic and image terms that will be around 40 or 50 million euros. It is estimated that approximately half a million people will be over four days, plus all the people occupying the fan zone Therefore, as I said in the question to the councillor, the economic benefits of advertising, of international image that they suppose for Bilbao, for Bizkaia and therefore for Euskadi this type of event is undeniable, because, as I said there, Euskadi, in addition to the economic resources to a part of Euskadi, we are a very small territory in which, if anyone is going to see a party in Bilbao, he is going to approach Donostia, he is going to approach Vitoria, without any doubt. And the advisor was talking to me about other events, and he was talking to me about the World Championship of Sokatira, which will be held in Getxo, which I already say from now on that to me any sporting event seems great, or not sporting, like others that have been in Bilbao, but, man, they will not deny that football has a greater dimension and attracts many more people, for example, than sokatira. As I said in the interpellation, there are three competitions that can be brought. On the final of the Champions there are more doubts, and I said it there and I repeat it again today, despite the fact that this MP has tried, sending her emails to UEFA, to see exactly what the characteristics are, because in her regulation she says that in each of the finals will be determined. We don't know... in private conversations, absolutely unofficial, it seems that by the means required, a range of more than 80,000, San Mamés couldn't accommodate it. But, well, in any case, there are two other important competitions, such as the end of the Europe League, which is a top-level event and which, of course, fits perfectly with the dimensions of the city and the dimensions of the field itself, and also the Super Cup of Europe, which at this time has much more relevance and much more interest than it has had in previous times. Therefore, we are talking about first level events that, as I said before, the economic impact, both direct and indirect – which is sometimes difficult to quantify because it is intangible – is, of course, undoubted. And I think it is in line with what the Basque institutions are supporting and in line with what many political parties have been demanding and supporting. Because, as I said before – and I want to reiterate this – I like football, it is true that sometimes it bothers me that football gets all the sports news and that only football is talked about, and it is necessary to bring another kind of sporting event. But they will also be with me in that betting for a football event of these characteristics is betting on insurance, because there is nothing more to see than the background that exists in other cities to know the people who move football and the people, as I say, who can come to Bilbao, to Bizkaia, to Euskadi, who can eat in our restaurants, who can be in our hotels, who can use our transports, who can spend in our shops... I think that is absolutely undeniable. What's a challenge? Of course it's a challenge! It is an organizational challenge, to see if we are able to give the size to organize an event of these characteristics, if we are able to receive thousands of fans, thousands of followers, in a very short time. Of course, it is also a challenge for security. Undoubtedly. Not long ago two unions came out saying –Esan and Erne, specifically – that with the organization that currently existed in the Ertzaintza and the number of agents that were held for precisely this type of event was not enough. But I think it is a matter of us talking about next year, about the 2020 Euro Cup, and, of course, at this event, much later on, it is a question of meeting those demands that the unions make, that the professionals make, and carrying out a better organization of the Ertzaintza, because I believe that our police is perfectly qualified to be able to act in events of these characteristics, provided, as I say, it is well organized. As we say, it is a challenge for all our infrastructures, but in addition to a challenge, as I said, it is an opportunity, and I believe that to the challenge we are able to face it in Euskadi and, of course, the opportunity we cannot miss. And, as I was saying, because we also believe that we have a stadium to teach, a city to teach, a territory to teach and a Euskadi to teach. I think we cannot miss the opportunity to, precisely, when we have a five-star stadium – although it is listed as four by UEFA, but it is a five-star stadium – a five-star city, a five-star historical territory, which we lose the opportunity to teach the world. So, what does it take? Well, I think we need the political momentum, we need to take the initiative and we need to make the request. Because let's not forget the deadlines. This can't be done overnight. For example, Seville, which wants to host the Europe League in 2021, at the end of last year already submitted the application. Why? Because the resolution, the vote, is going to be done in June of this year, in June of 2019. Then things aren't from today to tomorrow. I mean, I mean, we're talking already from 2021-2022. I think that decision needs to be made. As I say, it is true that the request has to be made by the Athletic, but it is true that the Basque Government, the parliament and the city council have much to say. It is an initiative that has been presented in the three institutions; obviously, we are not in the Athletic, so we cannot go there, but it has been presented in the city hall, it has been presented in General Councils and it is presented here, in the three institutions that are present in San Mamés Barria and that they can have that impulse for that sporting event to come to Bilbao. And I believe that, as I said, if political, partisan interests are left aside, and only sports and the general interest of citizens are seen, it is an initiative that can be supported. We have reached a compromise amendment. I believe that this amendment contains two issues which are absolutely compatible: one is this specific event, this specific request for which we called for support, but without, of course, abandoning the fact that the rest of the institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, of the Members of Parliament and of the Councils, continue their efforts to bring about economic, cultural, recreational and sporting events for the benefit of our Community and its inhabitants. Because that was the purpose of our request. Beyond personal tastes, sporting tastes, beyond what citizens in general may like, because it has an economic relevance, an economic interest, and we believe it can be a good opportunity for Euskadi. I look forward to support for our compromise amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u34	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Groups that filed the corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u35	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Today it is up to us to debate a motion tabled by Mrs Llanos, which once again insists on an issue that we have already dealt with in this House and in other institutions, but in a different way, calling this time for an official men's football match of an international character to be held at the stadium of San Mamés; in this particular case, as Mrs Llanos has well explained, a final of European competition for football clubs. At the outset, it should be noted, Mrs Llanos, that your proposal clearly demonstrates what the priorities and major problems of this country are for you and your group. And it brings us an initiative of so much social silence, so inclusive and that it directly appeals to the interests of Basque citizens as a whole as it is that San Mamés, an enclosure financed with public money, welcomes the celebration of a great men's football event for the economic benefit of a few. The streets and squares of Euskadi are filled every week with great mobilizations that claim what you propose to us and far exceed those of pensioners, workers who struggle to improve their working conditions, such as those of La Naval, feminists who cry out because justice does not look elsewhere at the Machist violence, parents who demand a quality education for their daughters, and many other collectives. As you can see – let me say, Mrs Llanos – we are on the pre-campaign and you are experts in mixing feelings and politics to confuse citizens and not to talk about fundamental rights! I will try to explain to you why your motion seems to us to me and Elkarrekin We can only look for the photo and the headline, and that it is more typical of a sister-in-law comment on family meals than it is fundamental part of an institution's work. For starters, you request that San Mamés be the venue of a European men's football competition final. Because under no circumstances do you refer to and care about women's sport, and more specifically women's football. They do not mention it, and we are concerned that visibility is being talked about, that we are being filled with the promotion of women's sport, but, when it comes to the truth, it is obvious to half of the society that practices women's sport in this case. And more when 20 days ago a total of 48.121 amateurs came to San Mamés to witness the semifinal of the championship of the Queen's Cup between the Athletic of Bilbao and the Atlético of Madrid, turning this meeting into the largest number of attendees registered in a women's football match in Spain. But instead of pushing women's football, which is at a time of obvious expansion and growth, and more in Euskadi – I will remember, moreover, that the other semifinalist, and already classified for the final of the Queen's Cup, is the Royal Society; do not worry, Mrs Romero, I tell you, and will also dispute the final – you prefer to surrender to the economic interests of the international federations and large companies that run the men's football industry. Let's move on. You, in your speech, have argued that these kinds of events create wealth and employment for the city that celebrates them, and we have several doubts about it, because in other similar experiences of sporting macro-events that have been or are going to be held, such as the Final Four here in Gasteiz, basketball, it is proving that women workers are being exploited, soliciting volunteers and violating fundamental rights. And from the institutions we should work to ensure that decent working conditions are guaranteed and that the employment that is generated is not precarious. In addition, we must promote measures to ensure that prices are not abused during these days, because those who pay for the consequences of price increases in hotels, restaurants and shops are the neighbours of the cities where the event takes place, in this case, the neighbours of Bilbao. Let's ask ourselves, Mrs. Llanos, who gets rich and what a real cost this is for the citizenry. Moreover, for us, for Elkarrekin Podemos, it is also important to point out that we should seek formulas for diversification and balanced and proportional distribution of the offer of events throughout the territory, and that they do not always fall back and concentrate on the same points. Let's not fall into bilbocentrism. It should be remembered that in 2010, when the Basque government, then headed by Patxi López, announced the investment of 55 million euros to help finance the new stadium of the Athletic Club in Bilbao, it argued that San Mamés was to be used not only 30 days a year or for major concerts, but every day of the year. An installation financed with the money of all must host not only football matches, but also be a space where to develop activities that promote sports values and the exercise of other modalities; there are other modalities, apart from football, although it seems that it is always the only one and one that is in all media, less media, whose municipal sports facilities are not in the best conditions. Let's take advantage of what we have to use it all. It was also publicly explained that the autonomous executive had agreed to the strong investment, in which the Bizkaia Diputation and the city council also participated, because several thousand square meters were to be available to launch sports spaces for public use, including an athletic module. To date, the current Basque Government does not intend to address these projects immediately, as Mr Zupiria has said on several occasions. Nor do we have any news at Bilbao City Hall that it is planned to build a municipal sports hall with swimming pool in the space awarded to it by San Mamés Barria society to replace, in principle, that of La Casilla and to give service to the district of Basurto. We cannot claim investments in large facilities where major events and events of great magnitude that are not within the reach of all citizens, and that those supposed economic impacts that you tell me to justify these events are unevenly shared and never reach the neighborhoods. We must also focus on municipal equipment, many lacking reforms and improvements, so that all people can normally carry out the physical activity they want, encouraging and providing resources for basic sport. Not everything is San Mamés in the sport in Euskadi. As you know, we have tabled an amendment to the whole, in which we ask that the Basque Government, as a partner of the San Mamés Barria society, promote and promote in its board of directors a participatory process so that citizens can decide what social, cultural, sports and leisure uses they want for this sport equipment, including the parties of any discipline, both of women's teams and of men's teams. It is precisely here, in participation, in addition to equality, that you do not quote in your motion, where we wanted to emphasize. As we know, San Mamés Barria has the participation of the Basque public institutions, since he counted and has the financing of all the Basques, we like football more or less, let us be of the Athletic of Bilbao or not. That is why we believe that it is necessary to open a debate on the uses of the stadium, which are currently very limited to the decisions of a few and always on economic criteria. Why not open a participatory debate to decide which alternative and social uses you currently have? Is it legitimate to defend a limited use of a paid infrastructure with public money? So we invite the rest of the groups to join our initiative, more inclusive than that which Mrs Llanos brings us today, in favour of equality and citizen participation, which knows how to reconcile in an appropriate way the diversity that coexists today in Euskadi, the work in favour of women's sport; the bets on the values of solidarity, cooperative work and respect, which sink their roots in the conception of basic sport and which are so essential for the growth of a society that knows how to live, play and peacefully claim as many ideas and feelings as they have within it. In short, from Elkarrekin We may not oppose or oppose the realization of these kinds of events. We are therefore going to abstain, although we have wanted to point out the opportunism underlying the initiative, as well as the much-needed reflection on who enriches the holding of macro-events based, in this case, in San Mamés, if the jobs it generates are of quality and if all the citizens, not only a part, benefit from the holding of the same, especially when the financing is carried out by the public institutions. For this reason, we advocate a more participatory, inclusive, diverse proposal that not only thinks of a part but that all citizens can make use of a space with as many possibilities as San Mamés is. With these events you don't know who will win in front of such an event, but let's wait and make sure no one loses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Our will, as far as this issue is concerned, and in order for no one to be deceived, is that European football competitions can be held at the stadium of San Mamés and when Anoeta and Mendizorroza finish their respective remodelings, so also in them, if possible. It's not too new, though. In 2020, that is, next year, together with London, Dublin, Glasgow, St Petersburg, Amsterdam, Munich, Copenhagen, Budapest, Bucharest and Rome, the Villa of Bilbao and the stadium of St Mamés will be the seat of the European Football Cup, which, instead of by country, will be organized between cities. But not only football live the cities, there are more events of all kinds (cultural, sporting, economic, social) that we must also focus on. The rugby finals, the European competition matches of the rugby teams of Iparralde in the stadium of Anoeta, the finals of other sports competitions, both male and female... The possibility of bringing, in the future, equivalents to the festival of the MTV, the Cycling Tour, the Tour, the Tour of Italy, the World Cup or the European Basketball, to a city, for example, where basketball is a reference as Vitoria-Gasteiz, with the Final Four to be held on close dates, without forgetting the ball worlds, sokatira, which will also be held soon in Getxo, or, why not, a final of the EHF of Balonmano in the Artaleku of Irun, and, why not, if one day the Oscar gala decides to move from Los Angeles, I would propose Donostia, the Palace of Kursaal, to give it all our glamour in what some call the incomparable framework, amen of all kinds of fairs and congresses and concerts that we could host. After all, as we say with the Basque, "Go out into the streets, go out into the world," and in these days to the Place of the World. And in order to be in the Place of the World, we must sometimes venture to make the Place of the World, and come to the hinges, though they may seem sometimes great, and we must do it amongst them all. And we saw, Mrs. Llanos, the mistake of your initiative, that she was only asked to promote it, and that we don't think it's what you're supposed to do, because in her case, you said, "Mamas football management and exploitation" belongs to the Society Federation of Spain and the New Year's Foundation in 2012. And, on the other hand, we felt that it wasn't the best focus in football, putting it in San Mamés or Bilbo, the focus was to be opened in a general and generic policy that the Eucomun or the other institutions had to be brought to project in the Euskade. Later on, we also heard about the demand made by the General Biscare Council yesterday to the Great Forest of Badge, and we think it's a good idea that the City of Bilbo and the Central Assembly of Biscare were in a field of football like Bilbo or San Mamés. But we thought it would take a wider view of the Euskágree and the World Control, as far as the event is concerned, as the area is concerned. Finally, we have come to an agreement that we did not see the original initiative, and our corrections were unmistakable, just as the short and long light of a car does not need to be harvestless, and being conscious that if we had been able to arrange the viscaducous Forum of various institutions on one side and on the other side, we have asked them to promote this matter, but they can do little more than they are in their proper place, although, as the chief physician said in the intermediation of this kind, I believe that in a series of intermediary, it would have been a very honest way, namely, "Comique de cuo de cuicio," "Comicos de interpolica de intermediaa de intercomporia de intermedia." In our opinion, and in the first place grateful to you for your honesty in the agreement you have had, the substance of the policy which is to be given to the future is at this second point; it is in some sort to be congratulated, Madam Llanos, and we congratulate ourselves on it. I think, in conclusion, that this subject is well adapted to the happiness of the new year, which I received from an air of happiness: "To enjoy small things and to seek great ones." Let's not stop at a happy-go-round! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u38	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u39	Thank you, Madam President, good morning to everyone and everyone. I believe that the fundamental question has already been raised, it was a clear, specific motion, it had no doubt at all to be interpreted. In San Mamés Barria there are three institutions next to the Athletic, among other things, because it is a field that belongs to us all in spirit and also because we have all contributed to building it. It is therefore normal that the Basque Parliament can also intercede and promote those issues – through the Basque Government, of course – that can be organised at that stage. I agree – I will not repeat myself – on the benefits of a sporting event, of course, also of cultural and other types, but we were talking about this particular initiative, about that direct economic benefit and the indirect one that is produced by the circulation of money in the first instance and then, moreover, by the projection of the country, of the whole country. We are a small country and coming to Bilbao you can spend the night perfectly in San Sebastián, which is a very beautiful city – I won't say much more beautiful – and everything can be taught. Therefore, I insist, there is no but to put, the only thing that must be put is that we act responsibly, with responsibility we must act, when this event is held, if it is finally held and it is possible to celebrate one of these finals of European club championships, is that we respond from the safety field and that we also respond from other areas, as Mrs García has said on behalf of Podemos, in relation to how they are organized and how contracts are established, above all, about the organization of a great event. Everything is compatible, it is true that it can be put..., in fact, the contribution – the other day called me Mrs. Llanos – that made Podemos also seems to me something interesting, to enable a participatory process for this and for other uses to which it is intended. Something can also say citizens, I believe that the council itself could also take this initiative, if it listens to the debate, in order to be able to install or begin to promote that participatory process. I insist, it seemed interesting. With regard to the initiative, that said, there is nothing left for us to say that we were going to vote for it, but it is that we were going to vote for it because that is what we did yesterday at the Bizkaia General Councils and what we will do next week at the Bilbao City Council. That is why, alongside these two institutions, there is also the Basque Government, and we thought the same thing, that it should be asked of the Basque Government, because, I insist, moreover, this is not a benefit that is only around one territory, but it is for the benefit of the whole country. I'm not going to go any longer: if I say A, vote A. If the initiative was if we want it to be celebrated, we want it to be celebrated for the above reasons. With regard to the second part, which is now being negotiated with the Basque Nationalist group, we agree, it is a principle of every Government to try to bring all the cultural, political and sporting events that can to our country, and which also benefit it and its citizens. We cannot therefore be against a basic principle which we know the Basque Government has an obligation to do and which it does in all the areas I have mentioned. I think that once it comes into effect... simply, this request should not be left alone in the spotlights, in the headlines and in the stands. Then there is the achievement of the goal. It's one thing to do it and it's another thing to get it. For this reason, I believe that, perhaps, party or political interests may not make it very viable, or, if there are, that they be done behind the scenes, to help and to support both the Athletic and the institutions that are part of the board of directors, and to do so privately for that purpose to be achieved. It's the same thing I told Mrs. Llanos in private too. It is not about who presents it, nor about victories or defeats, or about political or partisan interests; it is not only about asking for the goal, but also about achieving it. I insist, there are no more reasons. It is positive, it is possible, as long as it is done responsibly and addressing some of the issues that have already been mentioned, and it is clear; then, where A is asked, if we agree, then we vote A, and we do not say B to vote A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u41	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President. When I have seen the proposal, I must tell you the truth, I shall explain afterwards that I did not see him ill in front of this position, but the different things I missed. Not initiation itself, but other things which I think ought to consider together with this initiation. When we talk about the sports show, I think we need to talk about a sporting strategy, and we also have to talk about what kind of politics we're entering into. In this sense, why do we organize things, why do we organize them, what purpose we have when we organize them? But from this point of view, not only from the sporting point of view, but from a point of view of culture. I miss that initiation because it's centered in a concrete thing. Then, from our point of view, these sports shows must be treated by the Great Chinese and Vandy, they must respond to a planning, and even what we have to see inside this planning is how we want to appear in the world. We must see that also when we make that proposition. But not just that, but more. Sports Those who practice athletes are in society. "If we have to talk about a social model, we must connect the sports inspectors with society, because what is done here is traduted everywhere, society sees what happens there, and I miss it in this initiation. But maybe this is another discussion, another moment's discussion, and we need to see that too. Also, these great sports shows answer to a concrete model of management and a standard of concrete economy, and to a particular turism model. And we don't agree on certain things. He gives an answer to a certain form of city, and we also believe in it, that we ought to speak of divers things. But that doesn't mean we won't talk directly about this initiation. What we're thinking is that we have to do things right, that it's time to do things right, and before other performances are brought in, I'll tell you what we think about, is that a general performance is absolutely necessary, and we'll have to work this out between us all. And we have to do this plan in a strategy, with a country view, with a financial point of view, and also with a treatment we deserve. Hori esanda, I think that since the 1992 Olympics were held in Barcelona and then the Expo de Sevilla, and a lot of other things that were held in the Spanish state, we can talk about that the spirit of mass tourism combined with sporting events is something that is in the mouth of everyone. And this phenomenon is no stranger to Basques, it is no stranger to Basques, because in some places and in some specific communities it has been endowed with a strategic character, and it is a way that some institutions think there is to promote the country, to promote cities, even to justify investments and to make concrete investments in places where sometimes there was not much activity or where there is only one specific activity. And, in recent times, it is true that this has been for San Mamés Barria, it has been linked the activity to this kind of policies. And I have to say something like someone, probably my partner, Mrs. García, is going to look very pompous, but I have to say that San Mamés Barria is the best field in the world. And why is it the best field in the world? Because he plays the best team in the world, which is Bilbao's Athletic. And I have to make this very clear, and I think that in this there will be more parliamentary colleagues who will agree with me; but I also have to say that in that field, which is the best in the world because it plays the best team in the world, they share property and enjoy and also manage different institutions. And what's the Athletic? – let this be made clear, in order to avoid errors – the one who has the management. The management in exclusive, for the moment, with which it will be the Athletic, which also has its assemblies of compromisers, which are participatory, which will have to decide what things it does or what things it does not do. I think that, for example, would be a point to take into account in the proposal, because the compromise partners of Athletic also have something to say on these issues. Not only citizenship in general, but also those we are there. And I don't think you're telling the whole truth when you say that San Mamés Barria is only used for football, because that's not the case. In San Mamés Barria lately has been Gure Esku Dago, has been rugby, has been..., yes, has been, there have been more things. And now it arises that there are UEFA club events. By the way, I, except for error or omission, in the initiative I have not seen at all that they are masculine, do not put the word masculine, but, well, I was also wrong. If we admit that sport is culture and we accept that it also has an economic element, that is, that there is income and expenditure when sports are performed, then we will have to ask ourselves whether an event of these characteristics will fulfil these functions and whether it is desirable that this be so, and where is the key to culture and what economic model we are going to pose and what kind of economy a sport of these characteristics brings. And to these questions we have to give ourselves answers in order to see the meaning of the initiative. And we talk about economic impact and we talk about that, in fact, this allows us to teach Bilbao, teach Bizkaia, teach Euskal Herria, but it is that there are also other events in Bilbao that allow us to do this; for example, the Nagusia Star, which has another component, another way of doing things and responds to another economic model. And this has to do with what I said before, with the city model, the Bizkaia model, the country model we want to do. I know – and I've said it before – that this bet leads us to have the uses of San Mamés closer to other cities than ours, because we look more outwardly, that is, bringing out things, leaving a little aside what we have. And I ask myself one question: why don't we do, in that cultural use that can be made, for example, the final of betsolaris in San Mamés? For example. Such a job could also be done. And when I come to the end of my speech, I would also like to point out that the economic aspect must take into account how contracts are made, what types of conditions are put to the workers, how those contracts are used. The initiative does not point to anything in relation to this issue either. And speaking of this and San Mamés Barria, we would have to ask ourselves about the employees of San Mamés, about that model we want to do; we would have to see how we fit these txapelgorris And I'm going to finish nire interbentzioa gallera batekin: egin behar ditugu horrelako finalak, horrelako ebentoak, San Mamés Barrian? Bada, bai, nire ustetan bai, baina salbuespen hauekin –eta ez dira makalak, inportanteak dira mahai-gainean jarri nahi ditudanak – when they do not erode the philosophy of the club or of our people, when they do not contribute to perpetuating Machist attitudes or other values in which we do not agree and when they do not serve to put Euskal Herria into value, its culture, what we are and what we want to be and how we want them to know us. Este es nuestra poición. The man who has spoken before me said that he says A, A, A. We do the same. Yesterday, there was a dispute on this subject in the Supreme Court of Biscay. There our party made a bet on the abstainment, and we are going to do the same here today. We won't say no, but as we have some doubts and some things involved, our position is abstention to the initiation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u42	Thank you, signor. It's the answer time. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u43	Thank you again, Madam President. Well, with regard to the Basque Nationalist Party, we are pleased that we have reached an agreement. Indeed, they are not incompatible. What happens to us is that we were asking for a very concrete and determined request that is compatible with what you were asking for. That other events can be brought in? Well, I'll get back to you later. Well, indeed, and clearly. Mrs Romero I want to thank you, because it is true that she showed her agreement from minute one. Thank you because you're the only one who comes dressed in reddish today. And, above all, because, on the issues you have pointed out, it is positive and possible. I agree with her and also with what she has said that we must be vigilant to ensure that this is actually done and that, in the same way that I presented the initiative as non-partisan, in the same sense I want to say that we hope that then, when deciding whether to bring it or not, or how to bring it or how to manage it, the party interests will also be totally on the sidelines. In relation to Bildu, planning must indeed be done. I can agree. That could be the subject of another debate. In the same way that the economic and social model can be the subject of another debate, what is desired. Well, I'm sure that, if we start talking about the Nagusia Star, also, for example, bullfights are one of the things that attract the Nagusia Star the most, and I'm sure everyone doesn't agree. So, I think that is absolutely questionable. It is true that it is the Athletic that has to request it, it is true that the Athletic has something to say, because it is the Athletic that has the management of the field, but it is true that for the Athletic to do so, the institutions that are in San Mamés within that board of directors can plant the theme so that then the Athletic in turn also, in its case and among its partners, so raises it. And, Mrs. Goirizelaia, I'm with you in that Athletic is the best team in the world. We're already dealing with the situation, and I think we're going to come to a closer end. Unfortunately, we lost two finals. Let's see if we can win it by playing it at home. Then, even if it were only for that, it would be worth it. And with regard to Mrs García, Mrs García, you, it is that even in the initial criticism that you have done to me you have said exactly what you said yesterday..., here, the passing of speeches is quite common, because the lady, the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party yesterday told General Councils what Mr. Counsellor told me here, this about the recycling of speeches must be fashionable. You say if I have no more worries. Look, that's taking the radish by the leaves and doing an easy and cheap demagogy absolutely. I mean, we here, our group, have presented initiatives of all kinds, of all kinds. This is a sporting event, but, as I told you, it has not only the sporting interest as such but also the economic interest, the economic interest for the citizenry. And you say that citizenship..., I tell you about rugby, that it's also a sport that in Euskadi follows a lot; if not, you go to Getxo. But with rugby, 80% was delighted. Did you go to matches at the end of Bilbao when there's football? How's Bilbao? Did you go to the rugby final? Did you ask the hoteliers what they thought, that they were delighted? Did you ask the merchants? Did you ask the taxi drivers? Because I did, and they were delighted with an event of these characteristics – I don't know if in the tourism economy...–; they were delighted, delighted. Apart from the general citizenship, which, in fact, the hustle and bustle that existed in Bilbao for a long time... as long as security is controlled. I also put here a European club final; you have put the masculine thing, which you have..., but I will tell you that we, our political group, were the only ones who tabled amendments to this budget to help elite women's clubs, elite women's clubs to be able to participate in European competitions. What we cannot say is that because we are presenting a concrete initiative we are not interested in the rest, or because we are presenting an initiative and I have talked about men's sport we are not interested in women's sport or we are not in favour of equality. That's doing a demagogy that, if it's worth you, fine, but I don't think it can handle the slightest cotton test. And you were talking about other events. Well, of course, if you can do it, if the institutions that are in San Mamés Barria can propose to do other events! But I told you, they're authorized. This is the agreement that was signed, and in point five it says "Other uses of the field. All uses will be the subject of assignment under contract of lease of industry and the Athletic will have the obligation to assign space to each of the following partners..." – among them the foral deputy, the Basque government, the city council – "... for certain uses collected under the terms and conditions according to annex four". That's because we've made an approach to an event, because we think it's a good event for Bilbao, good for Bizkaia, good for Euskadi. And you were talking about bilbocentrism. Look, I was born in Basauri; it's also true that we from Bilbao are born where we want, but, come on, I feel like Bilbao, but it's that I'm a parliamentarian for Bizkaia, which doesn't mean that if it comes up in another, it's not going to support it in the same strong way...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u44	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u45	Yeah, I'm finishing up. Like Mrs Romero, who, in spite of talking about Bilbao, has had no doubt to support it being celebrated in San Mamés. It's just that one thing doesn't take away the other, and I think trying to stay on the surface not to talk about whether it's okay with you or not the initiative, well, there are other approaches. I agree with Mrs Goirizelaia that they can be done, but this was very concrete and determined, which does not imply supporting women's sport or supporting other events that can be done in Bilbao. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u46	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u47	Thank you, ma'am. I wasn't going to give a reply, actually, because I think it's an issue that we can basically agree on. I have never said that we do not agree, I have only made a reflection on what is a priority for you. And you asked me if I was at the rugby final last year, I don't know if it was May 7th or May 10th. It happened that I was at a concert – nobody cares what concert, the truth, I'm not going to count that much – but I was at a concert and I had to take a taxi and then, after the concert, I was in different bars. And of course there was a great atmosphere for the rugby finale! But I, the only thing I've told you is what kind of contracts, if that economic benefit is just for the merchants or it also affects the neighbors, I haven't talked about anything else. Nor was I going to go out, but, of course, if Mrs Romero comes from Gipuzkoa and dressed – it's true – in red light to give you the reason and I can't take my alavesist quota and claim my own too, entering into that debate is absurd and I won't do it, but you make it very difficult sometimes with all the conversations ending in Bilbao, all the events have to be in Bilbao. With regard to demagogy, I think that's demagogic, and I think using this kind of initiative in the pre-campaign is demagogic, but it's obvious and I also think that's good, that we have different concepts of demagogy, and I think not only in this. Apart from that, I agree, Mrs Goirizelaia, with the theme that it is a question of a tourist model, of a city model, of an economic model, of a social model, which is what I have come to say, that this type of events, the promotion and the image they give of a city, will have to be reconsidered if that is what we want to offer and if that really unites and unites the whole citizenry or just part of it. It is also true that the participatory process has to pass through the Assembly of Athletic Partners in Bilbao, but, of course, if you talk about it being the best team in the world, I understand that there will be no problem in which there will be a participatory process, no problem, under that premise. Having said that, we do not disagree with these kinds of events, but with the approach of how they are carried out, what they involve and the impacts – which also have negative impacts – and how we plan those impacts. We have the example of the Final Four and the issue and the issue of contracts, and the question of volunteers, of the 170 volunteers who were asked to work free of charge, without any contract, and it will also be in May. And we can all play "I'm more of a basketball player than you guys at Athletic," and yet, that doesn't take away to criticize that an event violates certain rights, with hobby, feeling and those identity things that you like to put on the table not to mention the things that I really think matter. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Eubertarians. Far away from there? [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u49	I'll keep it short. First of all, every one shows his feelings-and you will admit that, using those which are often commonplaces, I have the greatest cross here, because I am a gipuese and a burning burn in the Realal, but nevertheless I am of the Jeltzian sect of Eucomas, and I believe that I have a view of Euskade, and that I am also inclined to do such an event as St. Mamises. But I've said the last idea in the tribal, too. , consider one thing: here, in the end, many things will be required for institutions, but what institutions can do in the Administration Council is to inform, to communicate, and, as has been shown, I believe that the Athltic has a duty or responsibility to lead it. And we have a clear example, I have already mentioned: The next year Eurocopa will be made in Europe, of course, but Bilbo will be one of the houses, whose management and leadership have been taken from Athl. Just thank you for the deal and see you later.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u50	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u51	I was not going to go out either, but obviously some interventions I am going to answer, and also in a much more serious way, even if there are other moments as well. Mrs Goirizelaia, in fact, these celebrations, these events, which sportspeople have for the benefit of the citizenry and can be done within a given tourism model, within a given economic model. That's what we all work here, and it's not incompatible. I therefore believe that further work can be done in this regard, so that, if the achievement is finally achieved, it can be done in the best possible way. I have said this before also, in relation to how it impacts on the citizenry that day in particular, on security or on how it reverses those benefits. That, of course. I'm not gonna say who's got more, who's running the management or not. I don't know him either. Me, what I'm saying is that you push that goal. With regard to the Basque Nationalist Party, to its amendment, I have given the opinion earlier. What I do not think is to accuse a party that has said yes and voted yes to the celebration, to ask or to urge it to be celebrated, is, of course, to accuse us of demagogy for voting yes to that event. She's told Mrs. Romero and, besides, she's not going to get into the frivolities of how to put on our clothes... Look, I, for starters, am not Athletic and the clothes I don't choose according to the theme I carry in plenary, because then I would go black almost every Thursday. That, for starters. I don't think so. For me this was a serious issue and I said from the beginning what I thought. And that is what the Socialists think of the Bilbao City Council and the General Councils of Bizkaia, and that it is compatible with other issues that have been raised and that have been said by the spokesman of EH Bildu, the Basque Nationalist Party and also of Podemos in his amendment, which now no longer refers at all to the participatory process. I insist that it is a matter that should be dealt with in the above-mentioned council. So, here, demagogy, either we all do it or no one does it. I, what I said is that it's good, that we think about it and that we do it the same in all the institutions with presence in the council. That doesn't make any kind of joke. The Athletic is one of the best clubs in Euskadi, but obviously there is also the Alavés, which goes the sixth, the Royal, which goes the seventh, the Eibar, which goes the tenth, and the last that goes, the Athletic, but also the eleventh. That's the result. But we have a lot of teams that are playing in a First Division. I wish that European club championship would really be held. I have a lot of chances of going to see that finale, because, obviously, I'm from Barça. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Collect EH. Madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u53	Good morning again. As a matter of fact, this debate has started somewhere and gone somewhere else. But, well, I'll say only three or four things to say or answer things that have been said here in the second round. Lehenengo eta behin, Mrs. García. Participatory process? Indeed, the Athletic Compromising Assembly is where the participatory process takes place. And since Athletic is the one who has to ask, its partners and partners in this participatory process will be able to have an opinion. I am not saying that I am the only one or that I am the best, but that opinion will have to be taken into account. Surely in that assembly there will be people – for example, this woman parliamentarian who talks to her – who can propose that this be extended and asked more people, but we will do things where they have to be done and how they have to be done. Far away, sir, you've come now to explain to everyone that you've been speaking alone as a Basque. Yes, I have mentioned a few things, but I will tell you one thing: that the true Basque bet on the election of euscal. Then let's go to work and I want to see you do it, see what you do, what this government does to get ahead and how we work. We'll see if we really support the Basque People or not. Mrs. Llanos, let's see. Look, here we agree on a lot of things. You have given me reason in many things. I will give you reason in some other: in that we are going to win the next final, in that we are going to be the best..., in that I will give you reason, but I will also tell you that I see you here – and Mrs. García has previously told you – with a touch a little electoralist and replacing in the job of your candidate for mayor of Bilbo, who, well, on these issues and many others is quite far from the reality of the people around you. So, you're trying to do that pro bilbain job, pro vizcain, because the candidates you have have it a little bit more complicated to do it. And, indeed, it has to be acknowledged that you have done so, that you have done it well and that you have brought the initiative to Parliament, to the city council and to the Parliament. Well, we've said what we think about the parliament, we say it here and we'll say it in the city hall. Eta amaitzeko, gauza bat, Romero anderea: the classification is circumstantial, the Athletic will be above all. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u54	Thank you, madam. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Middle Amendment that the Basque Popular Groups and the Eubertarians have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 74, 75; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstations, 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u55	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Praise the proposition of the same as the parliamentary teams, of the establishment and resolution of several other companies, of the Basques and strategics, to root EA. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Casanova, representative of the EH Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u56	Good morning, everyone. Now that we've talked about how important football is, let's focus on the minutiae that are the future of the country's economy and that of one of the most important companies in Euskadi, such as Euskaltel. I'm going to talk about Euskaltel and I'm going to start talking about bicycles, but not as more than one and one could think, about the cycling team, to which I'll then refer, but about an anecdote that is told in the gang and that I'm going to bring it up here because I think it's related to the subject and it's moral. A friend of mine bought himself a bike; he was very fond of cycling and gave himself a whim, spent a pastel. It was spent so much cake that it was embarrassing to tell the couple at home how much money had been spent on the bike, so, well, as it looked to the league that was expensive, he said, "Thousand euritus." But, of course, something recognized him from the inside, because he said, "If I ever slap him, he'll sell the bike for four hard guys." Then he stood up and said, "Hey, look, if anything happens to me someday, before putting the bike on sale in Wallapop call Unai" – who was his cycling partner – "and ask him at what price you have to sell it." Morality is that it is important to know the value of things before selling them, because, if you don't know the value of things, you can missell them. And someone should have explained to Patxi López in August 2012 what was the value of Euskaltel, of the shares he was selling and of the fiber optic network, and if he saw that Patxi López was still committed to selling them, to malselling them, he could have told him as well (like the announcement by Euskaltel, that of "Patxi! Patxi!") "Patxi, what are you doing?". Patxi in 2012, in August, Patxi López, Mr. lehendakari Patxi López, sold, missold the shares that were in possession of the Basque government of Euskaltel and missold the fiber optic network, and thus triggered a process whose last consequences we are living in these days, which may be the last days of Euskaltel, understood as Basque company. On the 7th of February, Zegona's investment press came to his meeting and there was a trial of a public increase in the capital. He wants zeros and he gets 112 million euros, which is what he wants to do to buy a slice of Basques. If Zegon already has 15% and he wants to buy 12% of 12.5; that would suppose that Zingona would be the chief stockholder, or with other words, that Zneca would command Euskel. What is Zegonna? He defines his philosophy on his website. He says in English that he works in the area of telecommonics and that his philosophy is Budy, fix and sell. How is this philosophy compatible with corporate social responsibility (serious, repairs and sells)? How is it compatible with shooting with the country? How is it compatible with precursors and aids in technological development? How is it compatible with making a tractor job or feeding on the network of corporate providers? Well, I'll tell you: It's not compatible. It's completely inexorable. If this company becomes masters of the Basques, we can call it an end beyond the numbers. And, sadly, we could have expected this in 2012 when they sold out the government stock and government sold the optical fiber network. Then some funds were purchased by the majority of the Basques and placed their own people in the management. This management eased the plane, digested the jobs, froze the wages. The office of the Chinese operators, not the manager's wages, didn't push the shop net, pressed the margins to make more profit, and damaged the internal activity, and stopped giving the external privileges to the locals, the services were dismissed by the public service by the high distribution of the Companionalanian and technology, and so it became decapitated in technology because the technological component had passed out of the company, and, as I said before, the cycling team was dissolved. And that's a symbolic value, if you like, but you've seen how important it was to sport in this country, and also, in many cases, that team of the Basque Country gave an interesting international project. But from the point of view of pure income, the band threw itself into the trash. And then, after all this he went out to the stock shop and received as a prize director the famous bonus that was scandalous at his time. They charged $45 million for doing this piece of shit and putting it in Euscaltel's stock. And in the meantime, of course, various voices rose in front of this situation. Some against. Gather EH from the first moment. Before EH existed, the Aralians and AA voted against Ja against the decision to sell the stocks of the government and against selling the optical fibres. EH gathered against it, against esternisation, they applied to the template against reductions, against the stigmatization of services, and even against bringing it out into the stock. And the government, the government of the time, was supported by Patxi López's government, the Socialist Party, and also afterwards by the Jestric Party of Eus. Go away. And when EH Collector brought a motion to raise his voice against what was happening at the Basques, and against the speculative operation to get out of the stock, the Social Party and the Jalt Party tried: "Eusscaltel seems to think it's right for us to go out to the S.A's stock." The Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party adopted in 2015, before a motion by Euskal Herria Bildu, a statement which says that "the Basque Parliament considers it opportune to take out the company Euskaltel, SA". And if that's the right thing to do, go out to the stock, you have to accept the rules of the stock. If you decide to play on that game field, then don't complain about what happens in that game field. Because they're market solsies made at Christmas, and people sell old things there with real targets... Those are the market sols. But real markets have their own rules, other rules, or everybody else, to earn money. And if a company born with public enterprises and social services is brought to that field, it is logical that what happens now is between options: somebody like an OPA, complete or partial, making and buying this company, so that's the end of the Basque character. Surely Zgon will get what he has to do. There's money for that. If the operation is performed, and the operation is performed, it will probably change the direction, the neoliberal practice will increase the Basques, the decisions will probably be taken outside, the foreign companies, the telecommunication companies will be able to use Euscaltel, but in any case it will be decided by public and external interests in the neighbourhood of the Basques. And again, by making or not destroying employment, and also by making, or not doing investment. And all this will go out, and they'll decide outside. And given this reality, ladies and gentlemen of this House, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Government, it is not enough to be concerned, it is not enough to trust that things are going well, it is not enough to say that "I hope that the root will be maintained" and it is not enough, as Mr Erkoreka said here, at the height of 23 January this year, to say that it is premature to take a decision on the purchase of shares by the Basque Government in Euskaltel. On January 23, 2019, after OPA's first attempt failed, when Orange had announced that he also wanted to make an OPA, when Zegona was collecting the money to buy Euskaltel, saying that it is premature for the Basque Government to make a decision about taking or not taking Euskaltel shares, I think..., I think I've already told the 100-year-old joke that, after 80 boyfriends, one asks each other to marry and says, "Don't you think we're rushing?". Well, no. It is not premature, it is not premature that on 23 January the Basque Government had decided on its line of intervention in a strategic enterprise, important for a sector such as telecommunications, and which was created with public impulse. Not only is it not premature, but you are too late. And now, in fact, they go a month later. Because, if the Basque Government had reacted to the first attempts at operations, if the Basque Government had positioned itself as an agent firmly faced with those attempts of OPA or partial acquisitions, knowing how markets work, it would probably have made the operation difficult, simply by expressing its intention to oppose and articulate a front of resistance so that Euskaltel would remain a Basque company, because it would have increased the price of the shares, because it would have discouraged those people who have lent capital to Zegona from participating in an operation that would be more complicated in financial terms. But you have been immersed in passivity. You've done what you've been doing lately every time there's an industrial problem or a problem in an important company in this country: making the statue, looking at what's going on, saying you're worried and not making decisions. And you are the Executive, and it would be up to the Executive to intervene. I think anyone who knows a little politics or who knows me a little will know that Mr Ardanza is not holy of my devotion in political terms. But it must be recognized to him – who was indeed of the Basque Nationalist Party – that under his government the political impetus was given to create Euskaltel; there was a vision for the future, there was strategic leadership and a company was created that occupied the leadership of the telecommunications sector of this country. But that impulse, that way of looking at things, that way of looking at the role of the government, for me, is already exhausted in the Basque Nationalist Party. It is, of course, not the way to do the things you have today. Yo creo que, si a este Gobierno alguin le planate crear una em enterprise pública y buscar paraello lajocacón de chesta, de las fundacines bancaria, del Grupo Mccle, unserdo porque prevé extratécio, you have suddenly fallen into this philosophy no longer. Your philosophy is to allow the market to do it; and if we let the market do what happens and what can happen in the Basques is what happens. A separate mention, of course, deserves the role of Kutxabank. Because Kutxabank, once again, has failed this country, has failed us again. It is already more than 2.6 billion euros that has disinvested in major companies in this country while embarking on incomprehensible adventures like Cajasur. And Mr Sagredo, the president of the BBK Foundation, says, when asked about the question of Euskaltel, that, well, BBK is not a majority shareholder, in any case Kutxabank, and that it is not a majority shareholder. Then, of course, he shrugs his shoulders. It's not a majority because he sold the shares. When Euskaltel is partially privatized in 2012, the Trilantic and Investustrial funds buy almost 50%, the press says: "Kutxanbank guarantees the root with 49.9%". Well, that's Kutxabank's guarantee! If that participation is then sold, nothing is guaranteed. Kutxabank has failed us again. Kutxabank has a responsibility there. And if Mr Sagredo shrugs his shoulders, and if Mr Erauzkin, the President of Euskaltel, shrugs his shoulders, and if Gregorio Villalabeitia, the President of Kutxabank, shrugs his shoulders, and if Mrs Tapia and Mr Erkoreka shrug, here everyone shrugs his shoulders, trusts, worries, but nobody is responsible for anything. And if nobody is responsible for anything and everyone says, "Don't look at me," we're in a state of irresponsibility. And in the meantime, Euskaltel becomes "Euskaltenglish," and everyone shrugging their shoulders, saying, "This, don't look at me." And we are talking about responsibilities, yes, but it is not the main issue today to determine those responsibilities. It is clear that this hussy has responsibility, but more than looking for those responsible, we are going to try to find solutions. And the proposal that Euskal Herria puts on the table through the proposed purchase of Euskaltel shares by the Basque Government and Kutxabank is a proposal to seek solutions to the loss of the Euskaltel decision centre, which will be imminent if someone does not do something. And I do not know what third-party agents are going to do, but the role of this Parliament is to control the government and to petition the government, and as such, I have brought here a request on behalf of my parliamentary group for the government to buy Euskaltel shares and do so in the company of Kutxabank. Euskaltel is worth a little over 1.4 billion euros this morning in stock. Zegona has 15% and wants to get 112 million, with about 12%. Kutxabank has 20. Kutxabank can, without declaring an OPA for all the shares, go as far as 30%, which would mean an investment of 140 million, about 10% of the capital. The Basque Government could acquire 5%. In total, 15%: 210 million. They could do it in one phase or several. But, as I said earlier, the mere declaration of intent to enter this battle would probably cause Zegona to rethink her attitude, because it wasn't going to be an easy battle. We are also talking about the possibility of looking for partners, but responsible partners, not speculators, not like the funds that come now or the funds that have now been invested in Euskaltel; industrial partners, technological partners, partners in the telecommunications sector, that are made with a part of the capital of Euskaltel not to speculate but to accompany that company in the development of its functions. Companies that all over the world come to our head, such as a Basque teleco on the rise or an orange company with which Euskaltel has also shared a journey in recent years. Those are the kind of partners you can look for, that is the capitalization you can have; not, of course, speculative funds, and always maintaining a majority, public or semi-public participation that allows you to maintain the social control and the root of the company. It's more than a Basque company, it's a big company and it's growing. He's got 700 jobs, most of them in the Basque Country, 4,200 illegal jobs, which is profitable. He foresees that on his business plan of business in 2023 he had 800 million incomes, the EBITDA would be 400 million, profitable, but also strategic: the matter in the advanced countries of Europe would be regarded as a matter of state. The discussion of the optical fibres that holds all our data is a state dispute about the owner of the net, and we must respond as a people and keep our property in the Basque Country. Euscalel's not the company, it's the local company, and that's his...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u57	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u58	Her most important feature and the key to her success. The key to the success of the Basques and the key of generation is not a product in ours, it's not an offer, it's not a price, it's because people think it's here because it's local, and people stake for it. This, among other things, may be lost if we do not take measures. Let's take them now because we're still on time, or the Basques will cease to be euscal and become "Euskaltenglish." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u59	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u60	Good. Our coalition, our parliamentary group, while agreeing with the original initiative, believed that we needed a number of elements or issues that, in our view, should be addressed at least in the debate, even if the initiative brings a rather concrete proposal, as Mr Casanova said. And in that sense our amendment was moving to the whole, introducing the question of public banking, which is finally included in the transaction to which we have come, and including more clearly what in our opinion is the objective or what should be the objective, in our opinion, when public intervention in the companies we consider or consider strategic. Objective that in our opinion should not be other than the public presence in the property and in the management of the property in order to ensure that they can really serve the country, the general interest, and not the private interests of owners or shareholders of turn. Because, although we share the position that has been put forward on the need to root in the country of companies that we consider strategic, in our view this is not enough to guarantee any commitment to the country by those companies. We share the view that the defence of the headquarters and decision-making centres of companies such as Euskaltel being in Euskadi, but we believe that this, although a necessary condition, is not much less a condition to ensure that such companies are at the service of the general interest or the service of the country, by using the terms of the initiative and of the transaction. Today, Euskaltel still has its headquarters and decision-making centre in Euskaltel. He is at risk, as Mr Casanova's justification for his initiative points out, but he still has them in Euskadi, and yet today Euskaltel is a private company whose objectives are to obtain private profits, and point. Its commitment to the country, if any, is subordinated to the particular interests of a majority of shareholders who are financial, capitalist, of a speculative nature – and to a large extent – nature. That's why we say it's not enough with the root. It is not enough for the decision-making centre or headquarters to be in Euskadi. It may be necessary, yes, but it is not enough if the objective is, as set out in the original initiative and which we share, for the company to have a commitment to the country. That is why it is important for us to talk about public participation, to talk about objectives as public control in strategic companies, and that is why we proposed the need for public financial tools that are able to guarantee investments in strategic companies, in order to guarantee not only the root but the real service, the social service, to Basque society. And if we think it's important to talk about public intervention in strategic companies, we think it's fundamental when we talk about a company like Euskaltel, which, in addition to being a strategic company, is a company created with public impulse and created to a large extent with public capital, with money of public origin. Euskaltel today would not exist if it were not for public money, money – as he likes to say to the right – that comes from our taxes – which, by the way, we mainly contribute to the workers. That is why, in the opinion of our coalition, Euskaltel should never have ceased to have public control and strong participation from the public because of its strategic character in telecommunications and its origin with expenditure of public money. But the truth is that Euskaltel's current reality is far from what we would like to see in our parliamentary group. The current reality of Euskaltel is, in our opinion, the result of a concrete policy, a clearly neoliberal policy, which you often..., some groups tell us is a left-wing mantra. Well, well, we don't think it's a mantra. Here we see the results of a policy where the public administration ultimately acts in the service of private interests under the false argument of the so-called free market. Policies like this have led us to the current situation in the case of Euskaltel. If the objective of the company Euskaltel was originally to provide a public service in the field of telecommunications, as the justification for the proposal presented to us by Mr Casanova says, the truth – and I am sure it will agree with me – is that today, and after a privatization process in every way, we have to say that the current objective of this company is simply to obtain profits for its owners. That one, and no one else. And that explains why Euskaltel has carried out hard adjustment processes in the employment and working conditions of its staff, cuts that have been made with the sole objective of increasing the benefits. Euskaltel's workforce has been reduced in different cutting actions that have sometimes taken the form of outsourcing or subcontracting – call them whatever they want – through which employees passed to other companies, ceasing to belong to the Euskaltel's own workforce. Euskaltel's management has acted guided by exclusive profitability targets for shareholders and collecting bonuses for managers, and that's no commitment to the country, it's quite the opposite. And all this has been done being the center of decision in Euskadi, but in private hands and in favor of private interests, which is really important for our coalition, in the hands of who these kinds of companies are. And, above all, it is important in the case of companies like Euskaltel because of the importance of the public at its origin, in its gestation, because we think that what was born with public money cannot end up being a private business for some. For this reason, it seems to our group that public policies in this regard must ensure public control over these types of companies and that public banking is a good tool that should be strengthened from the institutions. It is essential, in our view, that there be a public banking pole with which to protect citizens and our savings, to reduce the imposing power of the financial oligarchy and to establish credit lines for relevant productive sectors to intervene in strategic sectors in the general interest. But all this requires governments that share this philosophy and policy. We are aware that not all parliamentary groups share it. The Basque Government does not share it, we believe that the test is precisely Euskaltel, we believe it is a clear example of a company created with impulse and public money in a strategic sector that has ended up being or becoming a tool at the service of private economic interests, with deals of favors, with revolving doors, with bonuses to managers, with labor exploitation, with all the characteristics typical of this type of process. That is why we share the need for intervention to ensure that the company's headquarters and decision-making centre are in Euskadi, but if this is so that they are really at the service of the country and not at the service of particular interests, because, if not, we will make a few loaves like bread, which is usually said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u61	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Popular. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Hernandez, I don't know what you're doing; we don't do those things. It tells us that there are some groups that do not share what you propose. We're not, we're not communists. Communist paradises and how you live, we already know it. You've taken advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid and saying, "We want a Basque public bank." Okay, that's it, fine. And I'll just stand there. And going to the initiative, Mr. Casanova, I can share much of the historical story you've made, but we must also bear in mind that 2012 was 2012 and today we are in 2019; neither the circumstances are the same nor the value of things is the same. But why are we here today? And I'll see if I can explain myself. Because the substance of the matter, we have already raised in its day and we agreed, we even supported the Government two years ago when it proposed to create a fund to invest in companies, which we are still to see what has happened to that fund, Madam Counsellor, because it has already been almost two and a half years, and this was an announcement of the beginning of the legislature. We said, "Man, a novelty, suits us well. We support him. As soon as possible." Until today. To date, that was supposed to be the fund with which the Government and other institutions, with private parties, could take a stand in Basque strategic enterprises, in which we are interested that, more or less, the decision-making centres should continue here. Therefore, we were already in that, but it is that we, in his day, when the merger was made, when the merger was made, we already proposed that the bank's participations go to the foundations, but so it was not done. But we also understood that it was good because it was good that the foundations had different income and did not depend on all their income from a single company (in this case, Kutxabank), but it was better for the foundations themselves to have their income distributed, but, well, it was not done. Then came Kutxabank's obligations, because even in the initial proposal Mr Casanova admits..., because he tells us: "Well, what if there is a legal obligation to get rid of the stakes?". Well, I don't know whether there is a legal obligation or not, but it is clear that Kutxabank is financially penalized to have them, with which, or the bank itself is dismantled or penalized. But why are we here today? And I, it's what I was coming to, because there's a certain contradiction here. I mean, we're here because there's a partner in the company that has shares, which says, "I want to expand my stake by 12%," and then, all of a sudden, someone makes a rumor and says, "And Orange wants to make an OPA and wants to buy it," and all of a sudden, the shares of a listed company go up, and I guess the rumor would come out of another of the partners who says, "That's how I raise the price of the stock and Zegona has to pay me more." But, of course, when we come here and say that in a company that is listed by the Basque Government and so on and I don't know who they are going to buy, what are we doing? Because we're speculating. It's a listed company, Mr. Casanova. As you said, the bag works as it works and the rules are what they are. So, now we're going to have that on the one hand there was Orange, how about..., and now it turns out that the Basque government and so on, with what is approved here, is going to be another competitor that's going to raise the price of the shares that you're going to have to buy or buy yourself. With which, let's say, the business, I start not seeing it, I say for the Basques. Because, of course, what are we doing? Speculate, raise or lower the price of a stock listed on the Stock Exchange. Sure! Of course, we're in the same place. And I'm going to keep your data, I'm going to buy it; about EUR 1.4 billion, half of it is 700, because acquiring a stake to decide where it stays is 50%, that is, EUR 700 million. Hey, is Iberdrola strategic? Is it important to this country? It is also listed on the stock exchange, but, of course, I say: do you have more jobs than Euskaltel? A few thousand more. Does he bring more money to Basque suppliers? A few hundred million euros more. Do we have to buy 50% to stay and make sure it is? Because this is what you're thinking here. I'm not gonna talk about the BBV, or where the money's gonna come from. Well, Mr. Hernández would have made it clear, wouldn't he? Since it's all public, it's private property, and then it happens, what's happened in all the communist paradises we've known, it's all going to sting. We, in this proposal, the whole House knows what a bet is and what our approach is. We have already tabled in this Parliament and we have already approved that the foundations should become part of that fund. We already support the establishment of that fund. We continue to look forward to hearing from this Basque Government fund that it was a concern two and a half years ago, and I do not know whether it has ceased to be a concern for the Basque Government; we found it very good to create that fund. Then perhaps we do not share that one considers strategic a company or that one does not consider strategic. I believe that in this case we are talking about it is clear that they are strategic and important companies to maintain employment; and not just employment, because in this case we are talking about technological companies, that the important thing is the technology that can be developed here, if we end up developing some in this area in the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u63	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u64	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, good morning. Indeed, Mr Casanova, you said that in Patxi López's legislature Euskaltel's stakes were sold, but there is something that you have been forgetting lately and that I am still surprised. Because the decision to sell was not adopted by Mr Lehendakari Patxi López, it was adopted by the Finance Committee, which approved the sale of shares on 13 August 2012. You either tend not to vote or not to give up the laws and rules of democracy lately, and it seems to me that no one in this case to the Basque Parliament is doing you or me or anyone any favor, talking about Euskaltel or talking about what it is. It was therefore the Finance Committee that gave the approval so that those shares could be sold. And, look, the Basque Socialists focus on the issue that you have brought us from two areas or two complementary plans: from the interest for Basquedi in maintaining the roots of strategic companies and tractor companies operating in Basquedi and also in the global market, and also from the scope of the need or opportunity for the Basque Government to participate with actions, either directly or indirectly, in that set of needs for strategic companies to stay in Basquedi; and also from that public-private fund capacity that we have been talking about, of 250 million euros or more, which we also discussed here, a year ago, exactly, it was February 22nd and we are at 21, but 2018. Indeed – you have said so – Euskaltel has been a company to take into account, because it has been a company and is a tractor company in Euskadi, for its investments, for its purchases in Basque companies, for its contributions to the Treasury in Euskadi, although it is true that it also deserves some other earshake, as in the case of bonuses, or some recommendation and opinions from the Basque Government have also had to be given from the institutions to reorient some of its actions, which did not seem to us the most appropriate. The Basque Socialists have always defended and bet on the involvement of the Basque Government in maintaining the roots of companies that are strategic in Euskadi, that are tractor companies, but always within limits. Limits that impose, in addition to the law, also common sense and also the economic capacity of a government. And that's why express pronouncements have been made at various times throughout the past legislature and in this legislature, at times that have to do with the future of this company. A year ago, as I said, we were discussing a number of initiatives relating to the participation of the Basque Government in these strategic enterprises. We discussed on 1 February an Elkarrekin GNP We can on transparency in the financing granted to Basque companies. One day later, there was an inquiry by Euskal Herria Bildu to the Economic Development Advisor on planning for the promotion of public investment in companies in the industrial sector of Euskadi. This inquiry was subsequently made in a motion, which was debated on 22 February. And that same month, on 6 February, there was an appearance of the Economic Development Advisor, requested by the Basque People's Group and also by Elkarrekin Podemos, on the participation of the Basque Government with the purchase that it had made of 1,24% in the company CAF. Therefore, these are initiatives that were directly related to the subject that you bring here today, because you have explained the specific and specific case of Euskaltel. Then, a year ago, he was talking about Euskaltel and he was talking about 17 other Basque strategic companies in which the Basque Government should participate in order to keep them rooted and also encourage the growth of these companies. And, look, from February 22nd we drew a conclusion, approved by the majority of this House, that it was a fucked-up amendment between the Basque Nationalist Group, the Basque Socialist Group and you, an amendment that had six points, but I will sum them up in two or three. He said: "The Basque Parliament is concerned about the process of selling business shares being carried out by the Kutxabank banking institution, urging this bank and the foundations of the banks not to carry this divestment process beyond the mandatory limits set by European law and to seek the most effective ways, in collaboration with the Basque institutions, to keep these capitals in Basque hands." We also said and approved: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to give priority to the general public interest in the public-private investment fund, without leaving aside the essential demands for profitability, and the main criteria being the territorial root of Basque companies and the accompanying management. To this end, this Parliament urges the Basque Government to ensure that when private partners are included in this fund, they share these objectives." Finally, we insisted on that amendment which was approved for reflection on the system of funds with public money, in order to be able to assess the impact generated and possible restructurings, in accordance with the criteria set out in the Industrialization Plan 2017-2020, and to make use by the Basque Government of the rights for the percentage of capital in the companies, in order to follow up the activity and to ensure that both from the perspective of the general interests and from the industrial policy the issue develops in an appropriate way. In other words, we were looking at and talking about the reorientation, the restructuring of those financial instruments. I believe that there has been talk and that the need, not so much – equal – to be a financial partner in this company, which is exclusively in the hands of financial partners, has been made public, but it was a matter of trying to find some industrial partner. And if, in order to encourage this industrial partner, a series of actions should be acquired by the Basque Government, logically, the Basque Government did not rule out, in the words of the adviser herself, such participation in actions to ensure that the industrial partner was also included and not to leave everything to the dawn of these financial partners. And it seems to me that this is the appropriate action or, at least, the necessary action, because in your amendment you always talk about maximums, that everything that sells Kutxabank is bought by the government. Hey, now, where'd you come from? But it's just that no public banking, Mr. Hernandez. From where, right? Where and how? And when we talked a year ago about those financial instruments that we have, which was then the Socade, we were also talking about venture capital funds, we were talking about the Basque Institute of Finance... that is, we have the materials, we have the structure. We have been told as active and passive that the Basque Institute of Finance is the axis that is going to vertebrate all the financial activity and shareholder participations of the Government. We were told when we were talking about the CAF issue, including specifically with the strategic funds, and we are therefore in the same situation. Therefore, I believe that your amendment, your initiative, excuse me, what you intend is a round of nut more; in this case it is Euskaltel, tomorrow it may be another, but in this case Euskaltel, and a round of nut more to that agreement that has been due to stay short, but which continues, in my view, as effective as that February 22, 2018. So much in force or more, because I believe that common sense prevailed there and because I believe that this so-called collaboration, which we were talking about in the amendment we approved, also prevailed there. Because we cannot urge Kutxabank not to divest itself when European legislation obliges it to do so, because we are talking about, you have said, EUR 2.6 billion, that, finally, taking into account this year's budgets, which have not been approved by the parliamentary groups, you will tell me what we are talking about in terms of the amount of money in order to be able to present ourselves seriously and rigorously to fight with Kutxabank that "If you leave it, I will take it." But how? That's impossible, and you, I think you're the first conscious that that can't be so. I therefore believe that the government has not ruled out, it has not ruled out – and to make it clear – that it may be appropriate to intervene through the purchase of shares. What we do not understand is completely accurate and accurate is what you put forward in your initiative, going to take all the actions that you can leave Kutxabank, going all over the whole and in that way solve the issue of rooting. Because there can even be a pact between partners, there was already with Kutxabank on the subject of Euskaltel, and therefore the root, in this pact between partners, was assured. Therefore, there are other mechanisms and other ways of acting to prevent the uprooting of the tractor and strategic companies that we shared with you a year ago and today we also share that, although we are not going to support your initiative, it is necessary that we continue to maintain ourselves in Basque for the sake of the Basque economy, not so much of the company but of the Basque economy and the impact it has on the sectors we have been talking about. That is why my group is going to ask you if you have the point vote on your initiative, because one of the points that you are dealing with in it is directly one of those that we also approved on February 22, 2018, and therefore, for consistency, we would like to vote in favour. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, I have a friend who happens to be the same as yours. But he also beats everything: there is no board, no ski, no skate, no skate. The only thing that's solved it in another way. He said to his partner, "If anything happens to me, you never sell it for less than I told you it cost me." So, this one's avoided the phone call. I hope neither one of you has anything going on in your sports practice and that call you were talking about never happens. In any case, if it had to happen, let's hope it's a Euskaltel number. Now, seriously. Mr. Casanova, as a matter of fact, when I first read your proposal, I must tell you that I thought music pleasant, but when I started reading the music, a noisy bonbo (mbol, boom, boom) appeared several times, and that took away all its beauty from him. And then I realized that we really agree with the plan, but we don't see the different solutions that can stand in front of this problem. Zure proposemena, edo hobeto esanda, ore Elkarrekin Podemekin sinatu duzun transakzioa hartzen badugu, nor teenagers nago lehenengo puntuan esaten denarekin. Lehenengo parten, batez ere, esaten dene: "Parliament urges the Government, Kutxabank and the three bank-owned foundations of this bank to take steps to ensure that Euskaltel's headquarters and decision-making centre remain in the CAV and to ensure its commitment to the country". No horrekin bats. Honaino, guztiz teens. Baina Gero Esaten duzue: "And that for this, among other actions, they acquire a sufficient number of shares of Euskaltel". If it had been "to put in place other actions, including the purchase of shares", then we would have had no problem. But you put your homework in advance. "No, there's only one, you've got to buy shares," and then everything else. No sé si el WiFi, la tele, el plan de palaterior, no lo sé, but first buy shares. That's your only thing. So much for answering to this, as if they did not exist! We can't agree with that. It's true that whoever was born as a popular project wants us to continue to serve the locals, to continue to serve the locals, to make sure that, if you're going to do it, it'll take care of them. To be united here is not only to pay taxes, or to keep them in any particular part of the community, if possible, a very fine residence. No, no, no, it's here to get a job, make investments here, get services and grow them out of here, raise them up, look out, there's the key, and I think it's gonna be fun. Baina zuek esaten duzue "We have to buy shares, yes or yes", hasieratik, "the ones necessary to guarantee the commitment to the country". And you have made us an approach, in addition, to how to buy those shares. But I still don't understand how many actions are needed for a company to remain committed to the country. By the text I understand that one cannot be, because you speak in plural (minimum, two), and from there, do we have to guarantee 51% of the shareholder for this company to stay here? What is special about this company in relation to others in order for the government to have to invest in this regard? And if the government has to invest all that money in buying shares from that company, who in their group is going to come after me later, in this case? Who do we take from? Shall we take the ikastolas off? Shall we take it out of social action? Shall we take him out of the house? Where do we get that money? Because to me, you've made the bill, but I haven't made it clear what that final price is. You said you had to know at what price it is sold. I tell you that you also have to know at what price you buy. And we're about to see... if every company that leaves someone wanting to participate in the shareholdership, act followed by the government has to go out and buy that part to guarantee, do you imagine the tail that this lady is going to have in the office? Do you imagine the brides that will appear to all companies that we may think have a root, that are strategic in this country? Man, if they don't, they're gonna make it up, they're gonna make it up: "Hey, a fund comes to me to eat, I have to go. Counselor, please, that you have to pay, that you have to buy." And we'll have to value it at the moment: this is strategic, this isn't... How are we gonna do that? With what planning? You have come to tell us what the companies are: this company is good; this, yes; this, good; this company is not; this, bad. I mean, is EH Bildu going to determine that? Because, as I'm telling you, the tail can be amazing. Look, the government is willing to keep Euskaltel deep, but for that it has many more methods than buying shares. And she doesn't give up, the counselor has already said that she doesn't give up being able to buy those shares. But it is not limited to that alone; it is much more important to guarantee the root, as Mrs Corcuera said before, in the partnership pact than to maintain a certain percentage of shares, which, as I say, we do not know if it is 2%, 1.27 or it has to be necessarily above 51. That already happens, and if that changes, if Euskaltel's shareholdership changes from now on, we will have to get that guarantee of rooting in the partner pact itself, which is something much more concrete and fruitful than having an indeterminate number of shares that do not guarantee anything if one does not have the whole majority. Because, as I said before, it's not just about having a seat here or paying taxes here, it's about investing here and growing from here. And that's why our strategy, the strategy of the Department of Economic Development in this case, is based on having several different instruments, adapted to the needs of each company (they can be loans, they can be venture capital); for each situation, a possible solution. Bigarren puntuari dagokionez gauza bera gertazzen zaigu; irakurtzen hasi eta ados: "The Basque Parliament once again urges Kutxabank to maintain its participation in Basque strategic enterprises at the maximum permitted levels". Here we are already beginning to... because you, what you have done, in this transaction you have reached with Podemos, has been hardening in this part, even where we have agreed so far, you have made it more difficult for us to vote in favour. In any case, in its initial wording we were in favour, until it is proposed that the Basque Parliament insist that in all those cases where Kutxabank is obliged to leave, the government and the banking foundations automatically take over what Kutxabank must leave because it is bound by European law at the moment. I do not know how much these divestments are going to amount and whether there is going to be much more from now on to comply with the current European rules, but I can see that there are not going to be too many in the current circumstances. So I ask myself, and I say, well, it could be possible a priori. That is to say, I believe that every bank foundation and the Basque Government itself must analyse their possible participation in this series of companies in a minority manner and that it may in some cases be neither convenient nor possible for this to happen at all times and automatically. I believe that, as in any other case, as in any other buyer, it is essential to analyse the viability of the company, the strategic nature, the need for public participation, in order to guarantee the root, as well as the economic availability of each entity, which is not the same in each bank foundation. On the other hand, with the third point of your transaction we have no problem. On the contrary, we believe that it fits perfectly with the approaches of our party, this parliamentary group and the policies of the Government. It also coincides with the agreement referred to earlier by Mrs Corcuera, to which we arrived a year ago, on 22 February last year, and which you seem to be taking off today. We continued to defend what we proposed then and we continued to think exactly the same. Horrexegatik beragatik puntuka bozkatzea eskatzen said. There are companies that, being tractors and of a large dimension for us, compete from Euskadi with giants in their field. Euskaltel is one of them, and something that is great for us, in the global world it is of a small dimension, and sooner or later these companies see themselves in the need to acquire dimension in order to be able to compete with others and not stay in the way. And the government can't go buying shares of each and every one of them. Another thing is what kind of investments are needed, what alliances are being made, what acquisitions are being made or what decisions will be made in the future. We need to root companies, yes, but we need those who are working in a global environment and who still need to be tractors in Euskadi to be able to continue working, not to get lost on the road because of lack of dimension. And there it is, there the Basque Government will be helping as it has always done, because what you define as a process of denaturing is for us an example of how to do things. Euskaltel is the result of a public initiative that has turned to the benefit of Basque society, because that is the work of a government: from stability to help and reach where the private sector cannot reach, but not replace it, Mr Hernández, in what it can do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u67	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u68	I'm going to finish up, Mrs. President. She was born in the '90s because she saw a revolution coming and we were supposed to be a pioneer. That was foreseen, he started and pushed the company. But the kid who was a kid began to become a teenager and make his own decisions. It's an important company now, and we're proud of it, even though we don't share all our decisions. You've been doing something else when he was a boy and a teenager, and now you've come to teach him lessons in maturity. Late as usual. I insist: if the solution is to buy shares, they will be bought. But this, we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u69	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing over to the answering shift, Mr. Casanova. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u70	Mr. Grajales, if for you what is happening in Euskaltel is an example of how things have to be done, it is quite explained to me. It seems that I understand it: its goal is for Basque companies of a strategic nature to end up in the hands of international speculative funds, to lose their roots, to lose their assets and "Hor konpon, Mari Antton". Well, if it's the target... I am also surprised that the PNV does not know what the country's strategic companies are and that it delegates to EH Bildu the option of determining which they are. If you want, we can make the list. There are not many listed companies, and I do not think we would have much difficulty in pointing out which are the strategic companies. I think we are giving here a very bad image of this House with the way this debate is going, because we are facing a specific problem, as the classics, the Romans said, "Hannibal ad portas" Mr. Damborenea started strong, started a little in the new PP line. Yesterday some transfers were the decomposition of the Spanish state, and today public banking is communism. Then it has already improved, and I think it has said one of the most interesting phrases of the day: Why are we here today? I believe that the fact that we ask ourselves that question should be mandatory every morning when we begin to discuss a point here. What are we here for today? I will tell you that today this point has a very concrete answer to that question. We are here to prevent Euskaltel's decision-making centre from getting lost, and we are here to decide on a concrete proposal from EH Bildu, negotiated with Elkarrekin Podemos, for that to happen. We can disagree about the proposal, but I am very clear here today as to why we are here. Furthermore, I am very clear that a possible solution could emerge from here today. Do not compare me Euskaltel with Iberdrola, which Iberdrola is worth 50 billion and is absolutely in another league. And I, in addition, putting the tirita before the wound, and knowing that they were going to try to ridicule or caricaturize the proposal of the stock market investment saying how much and how much money is, if 50, 40, 30... No, no, although I have not put them in the proposal, I have come up with figures that also represent a proposal that demonstrates the realism of what we are talking about here. These are figures that we can move perfectly. These are perfectly consumable figures, and there is nothing to take away. If the government already has investment instruments! It has been recalled by both the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party that we have reached an agreement precisely on these instruments. But we did not agree to write it in a paper and put it in an urn, we drafted it to have an instrument of intervention, to use those criteria to work when there was a specific case where those criteria and the road map we agreed were applicable. And this is a case of a manual in which these intervention criteria must be applied from the public to maintain a strategic enterprise rooted in the country. Because in this House we approved a proposal a few months ago on an inclusive business model. We all unanimously wanted Basque companies to look like that model. Who's going to tell the CEO of Zegona about the Basque inclusive business model? You, Mr. Grajales? It's just that I'd be laughing. Or you, Mrs. Tapia? Who is going to go where these sharks say that here, in Euskal Herria, we want companies to operate in another way and Parliament to approve it unanimously? Or when they approved that agreement they were also thinking that it was worth nothing more than saving the file and that then that was not going to have any concrete impact? And it is true, as the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos said, that it is not enough for companies to be based here, of course it is not enough, there can be companies based here that have absolutely undesirable practices from a social point of view. Of course, it's not enough for them to be here, but to be here is condition sine quae non sine quae non– And what is going to happen is not a simple debate in this House that goes beyond an agreement or a non-agreement, what is going to happen is that a Basque company, which created jobs here, which was created by a public impulse in which money was invested, is going to become controlled by a multinational, which is going to do what is most profitable in the short term to recover and multiply its investment because, moreover, they say it openly so. And what we want is for the company Euskaltel to be another model of company, and for that they go back to the cartoon of saying "What do we have to buy, the 50?". No, no, I've just made some ideas for them. You have to be the majority shareholder and then, it's true that you can reach agreements with other minority shareholders to get a majority, and that doesn't mean buying now at once 50%. I've put a figure on them, we're starting from 20% of Kutxabank. By reaching 35 %, this investment can be allocated in a manageable way between Kutxabank and the Basque Government through its investment funds or ad hoc mechanisms. And I, in all the companies that are in the situation of Euskaltel – why do they go back to the cartoon ("All of them?")–..., to all who are in this situation. How many are there? Right now, one. Probably in the future there will be more, and indeed the bulk of the disinvestments is already done, and we would not have had 2.6 billion euros to cover all the holes and all the broken ones that Kutxabank has left in the form of disinvestment. The bulk, unfortunately, is already made, of the only thing that has not been released is from Caja Sur, which is the first thing they had to have sold, but those that come in the future, which, probably, according to all those responsible for the foundations of the boxes and Kutxabank itself, are going to be smaller, I think we are willing to assume, so that that broken which is already of considerable dimensions does not continue to widen. I believe – and I finish now, Madam President – that I am going to gain fame of counting many battles, but I am going to finish with the tale of the three lehendakaris: one, Mr. Ardanza, created Euskaltel; another, Mr. Patxi López, put Euskaltel on the brink of disappearance, and a third, Mr. Urkullu – and this is where our space of freedom enters to change the end of this story – can pass to the story or to the small story of Euskaltel as a) the lehendakari who did nothing while Euskaltel lost his character as a Basque company, or b) the lehendakari who managed to maintain at least the root of Euskaltel and who remained a Basque company. Today, with your vote, you will choose which of the options you choose.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u71	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u72	Two issues have fundamentally raised my coalition following the initiative proposed to us by Mr Casanova, which have been taken lightly, but sufficiently, in the compromise that we have reached. We think, first of all, that if public resources are to be used in companies – and in companies that we consider strategic – this must be done not only so that they have their headquarters and decision-making point in Euskadi, but also so that it is done with objectives of real social service to the whole country. And, secondly, to raise, to take advantage of the opportunity, it is true, to take advantage of the opportunity to talk about public banking, because we think that public banking is a good financial tool to act in industrial policy, in country policy. More in a Parliament where there is so much talk of country policy. And this to some has seemed to be communism. The day I come here to expose what the communists propose for society, forgive me the expression, someone comes running, of course. Well, the question was very specific, it is true, as Mr Casanova has put it. To such an extent that the groups supporting the Government agree with some of the points of the initiative, and, if I have not heard wrong, they have called for the point vote to support that initiative. We do think, we do think, that Kutxabank is carrying out a wrong policy, and therefore we did find what was proposed to us today interesting. And that is why we suggest that a public bank is needed that has different objectives from those traditionally held by private banks. Because it is true that Kutxabank is divesting, it is making divestitures in companies without any obligation. Legal obligations have been discussed here. There are no legal obligations for many of the disinvestments that Kutxabank is making and that are making it easier for these companies to lose that uprooting that is being discussed and, above all, that these companies finally only have objectives of interest to their owners, capitalist objectives. And we, then, seek something else. Yes, I know that this model is not shared by all the groups in this House, but we do, and for that reason we abstained from that agreement that was discussed today, because we considered that it did not guarantee Kutxabank's participation in these industrial companies, in the industrial portfolio. That was important to us, and that's why we abstained. And that's why today we come back, yes, with that speech that some people don't like. We believe that public money that is invested in buying shares has to be used for public control of these companies, companies that are not strategic because EH Bildu decides it or because the government decides it. It will be because assessments are made of what they can bring to the country or what can happen if such companies do not have any kind of control and monitoring from the public. We are therefore going to vote, of course, in favour of the compromise that we have reached on the basis of these two issues: public money to help or ensure that those types of companies in which they invest from the public have social objectives; and, secondly, to talk about public banking again, which is something that many groups do not like to hear about.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u73	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular. Lord of Damme, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u74	Mr Hernández, there is no need to explain communism to me; I know it, and after hearing it I have come to the conclusion that, in fact, you were a communist. What I don't know is what model you follow for businesses and workers, whether that of North Korea, China, Cuba or some other, which is super good for Basque workers. I guess the groups that support the government have forgotten to talk about the famous fund that this government was going to create to invest in companies that are important or relevant to this country, but my question was not what we are for, my question was why we are, and we are because in the press an operation came out, in the end, an operation that I was proposing was a pure and harsh speculation of Euskaltel's actions: that if Orange was going to go in, then they would shoot themselves..., then Orange went out to deny, then they go down again and now we..., man, I recognize that this action today can revalue the value of Euskaltel's actions. I don't know if you have; I don't. I don't know if he likes orange very much; I don't like orange very much, but, well, everyone has their tastes and preferences. But I'm not going to get into that. Keep the root. Listen, to keep the root, why don't you propose creating conditions so that all the companies that are here are happy to be here and that even others that are not here want to come here, that they are here and that they work here? Because every time we have to consider how we want or what conditions we put, "We have to raise corporate tax, we have to raise corporate taxes, we have to raise corporate taxes. They have to pay more, they have to..." That's not how you encourage rooting. And less with other people's money. Yeah, yeah, less with other people's money. And everyone tells us what the company and the model of the company has to be like. Hey, you guys believe yours. Sure! And put that model into operation in those companies. If it's so good, I don't know why you don't create those companies, and with that model. Because I'm going to tell you what's going on here: here you're playing the chiringuito model, the chiringuito model. And when what you were criticizing about Kutxabank was the only enlargement to leave the country, which was Caja Sur, to see if we grew up a little bit, do you think a bank in Europe can compete...? How long do you think it will last with the costs competing in Europe in three provinces of Spain? And to a phone company you, how much time do you give? How much time does it give you? Now, no, but we want to have our little chiringuito. To mangonate the chiringuito, which there coincides with these gentlemen. Why didn't Kutxabank grow up? Because we had to share shares with others. Sure! And Euskaltel? You guys share a model. But it's a chiringuit model, it's not a model of a viable to future business that generates benefits for the country and for employment in the country, no, no. This is today's debate. Today's debate is whether we want chiringuito model companies to eat from the Basque administrations, that is the model you are putting forward. And, of course, we are obviously not in favour of that model. That's why we supported in his day that he did, that he went into the South Bank, and we wanted more because there was a chance that Kutxabank would be a bank that grew up and was older, had more business and earn more money. We were in favour of that, also with Euskaltel, but, of course, that means you have other partners. But if you say to those partners, "No, and we're still downtown here, because look, we make more money, you pay less taxes and you live better." But, of course, those who have not been concerned in the past 40 years, except to expel companies and entrepreneurs from the country, which was the other model that there was, will now come to teach others what to do to maintain a company. How many have you expelled? How many have gone? They had roots; some, over a hundred years old.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u75	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u76	Thank you, President, and briefly, not to be bored. Mr Casanova, you are often very detailed in the drafting of your initiatives and then in the amendments you intend to make, and you are often quite dotty in how you want them to be drafted. And you, I am convinced that you knew that not only with the initiative, but with the transaction you had made with Elkarrekin Podemos, in some points it would be difficult for the groups supporting the Government to enter. And I knew that because it has given, as I say, that twist to the agreement that we managed to reach on 22 February last year between you, the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque Socialists. And I wonder, if it is you, what you intended today was to leave or try to make it clear that the Basque Socialists in this case are not the root of strategic companies or tractors in Euskadi, are we not? And nothing further than reality, than what the Socialist Party of Euskadi really wants for Euskadi and wants for Basque companies and industries. Because, you see, on April 10, 2014, the last legislature, was approved with the vote against, in this case of Bildu, an amendment that we had sex between Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists, which we were then in opposition, regarding ensuring the territorial connection of the company Euskaltel. And we said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to work and promote measures to prevent the relocation of businesses based in Euskadi, so that companies such as Euskaltel, maintaining their territorial links, continue to act as a tractor for the rest of the sector, so that, in addition to maintaining current employment, they continue to generate new quality employment in a sector that is strategic". High and clear. October 8, 2015, we continue to be the Socialists in the opposition. And then we approved in this Parliament an amendment that we had with the Basque Nationalist group, with Bildu's vote against it and the abstention of the People's Party then, on the process of selling on the stock exchange of part of the capital of Euskaltel. And we said, among other things, in what was approved: "The Basque Parliament ratified that the authorisations granted to the Basque Government on 13 August 2012 were appropriate...", which you have also read earlier, "... both for the transmission to Euskaltel of the telecommunications network and surplus infrastructure and for the sale of shares of Euskaltel SA owned by the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi". This Parliament "... considers the departure to the Stock Exchange of the company Euskaltel SA, as long as it will entail its strengthening as a leading operator in the telecommunications sector and will facilitate its access to more sources of financing and its future growth and development". And "The Basque Parliament considers that the company Euskaltel and its management teams have a commitment to Basque society, for the support given by this company to the birth and development of this business project, and calls for the company's link with Euskaldi to be maintained in its strategic decisions and translated into job creation and a commitment to the development of innovation". If you add to this in the last parliamentary term the six-point amendment we adopted with regard to the participation of the Basque Government and Kutxabank, or of the foundations of the boxes in the taking of shares of companies, in this case of Euskaltel or of strategic companies and tractors so that they continue to be rooted and rooted in Euskadi and also some of them can grow even more, because it is also a problem of size in what are Basque companies, it seems to me that it is sufficiently clear what is happening here, what is happening today and what is going to happen with regard to the future with strategic companies and tractors who see themselves in this situation. And it is that there is a commitment from the Basque Parliament and also from the Basque Government that Basque companies, tractors and strategic companies, continue to be rooted in Euskadi. And that can be done with participation, but also looking for an industrial partner that has a lot to do with the future and future and the permanence of these strategic companies in Euskadi. That is why it is important for us to be at least clear, and that is why I would ask you again to vote on points, because I think it would give coherence to what we have been putting forward. And one issue that Mr Damborenea also raised is that there was no talk of the investment fund. Well, I encourage you to read the government's accountability for the follow-up to the initiatives we have adopted here, the first half of 2018, and there you will see everything that has to do with financial instruments, funds and revisions. It's done and I can pass it, that I have it there. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. And finally, the Eubertians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, you say you understand everything. He understands everything backwards or he understands what he wants to understand. I have never said anything that I share, I have nothing to do with the Euskaltel Board of Directors, much less. I do not share many of your decisions at all. Others I can share. When I referred to the model, I referred to the model attitude of this Government and the previous ones, reaching where the private sector could not and then leaving the private sector to the development of enterprises. Because you know as well as I do that at a certain time, a company that is competing in the global arena – and we also need them to still be tractors in this country – so that it can continue working needs not to get lost on the road because of the lack of dimension. That's where you'll find this government again. What I have told you is that not necessarily, as you proposed in this proposal, in a closed way with the purchase of shares. Because I insist: you can have or you can spend a lot of millions of euros on having the 35% of the company – and we would also see at what price – and have no assurance that the root is insured. And, on the other hand, there are other means which, as is currently the case, allow 20% of society's nationality, through a partnership pact, to secure this root. Then, rest assured, we will not give you the responsibility to decide which companies are going and which companies are not going. We would be good if we gave you the responsibility of which companies are strategic and which are not! I mean, I mean, everyone here has their resume to present, and some, as I said in my first speech, have arrived when the child had already grown older. We don't know where you were while the child was young or adolescent. Before it passed with the lehendakari Agirre, it passed with the lehendakari Ibarretxe, now it passes with the lehendakari Ardanza and with Jon Azua. I have not traveled to the future like Mr Maduro, but I know what is going to happen, I know what is going to happen in this House in a few years' time: the Casanova of the future will come to this House to say "Tapia and Urkullu, those two that were worth, those that had an efficient, powerful industrial policy, they had things planned and not this minddini that is now." That's going to happen, because that's what happened; it happened with the lehendakari Agirre, it happened with the lehendakari Ibarretxe, it happens now with the lehendakari Ardanza, with Jon Azua, it happens with everyone: the lehendakari and the councillors, the members of the government of the Basque Nationalist Party, are wonderful once they leave office. In the meantime, unfortunately or because it is up to us, we must continue to resist; to resist in the politics of this government and of the previous ones, what we have been doing since the beginning of the post-Franquist self-government... [[Berber]] Maintain a permanent pro-business and pro-industry attitude, by companies, which are those places where, apart from workers, there are also entrepreneurs. We'd be good if we let you take care of this! As I say, what you have done, industrial, strategic, stable and planned policies. That is what you will continue to do with our support, so that this people will maintain their industrial muscle, well toned, now and in the future, just like yesterday; and, if you can, I am sure besides that it is in their hands, it will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u79	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect, and together we'll rectify the Podemos teams. No points requested. Is that possible? Okay. How do you want me to vote? The rest and number three. That's it. Then we vote for points number one, number two, and four. [[Berber]] What? Okay. We'll vote for 1 and 2 points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u80	So 1 and 2 points have not been accepted. Next, we vote for number three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u81	So the third point is accepted. And finally, we vote for the fourth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u82	So the fourth point was not accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary team together, concerning the return of persons emigrated from Euskade. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Guanche, representative of the Podemos, has the word to introduce and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u83	, ladies: Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all. Paul Neruda said, "The banishment is round, a circle, a ring: they turn to your feet, you cross the earth, it is not your land, you wake up the light and it is not your light, the night comes and your stars are missing." And today we are in this rostrum to speak, yes, of banishment, which is no different from the situation of those who have to go unwittingly. We are here to talk about the return, of those who have been able to return, but, above all, of those who want to return and cannot do so, because they emigrate, per se. The condemnation is also that, once done, you want to go back and do not let yourself or at least not find support to be able to do so; that you want to build and project the future back home and find implicit, visible or invisible walls on the front, walls not of concrete, but of paper, of absence of opportunities or of exclusion of the supports that make de facto That is why today we want to place migration at the centre of this discourse not as a negative phenomenon, but as emigration and the impossibility of return as a violation of the right to build proper and dignified life projects where people can choose. We are here to talk about the thousands of people who are leaving Euskadi to look for opportunities for a future that they have not found here or that they are not finding today. In 2017 there were 31,136 persons from Euskadi registered as persons with permanent residence outside the Spanish State. More than 5,000 Arab citizens, more than 10,000 from Gipuzkoa, more than 15,000 from Bizkaia. More than 30,000 people who today do not have enough guarantees or facilities to be able to return, if they decide to do so; the number of people who, for us to be located, are like the population of Irun or the population of Laudio and Amurrio together, as if all Sestao and Mundaka disappeared, are empty of people. In 2017, there was a surge of people who migrated from Euskadi. 2,935 marched in the last year. There are 1,504 children whose families emigrated from Euskadi; if we count these data since 2008, there are more than 22,000 children who have emigrated with their family and have not returned. 2008tik aurrera, 22,000 haur eta nera atera dira Euskaditik atzerrira bere familiarkin eta ez dira itzuli. And that aside from the data expressed by the chilling report, for example, of the Granate Sea, which states that the number of persons of Spanish nationality registered in British Social Security in 2015 was five times higher than the emigration data collected by the INE, data that are also undervalued in other countries analyzed such as Ireland, Italy, Norway or Sweden. Data that do not fit, because, for example, there are those who are afraid to discharge themselves abroad because of the risk of losing rights to return. However, I am not going to continue using data that are not official, so I return to the INE: of the 2,410 people who were able to return to Euskadi in 2017, 43% were over 35 years old, 32% were under 19, just ages that almost entirely remain in the limbo of the existing support programmes, because there are certainly few but they do not work. Two programs from the public sphere promoted by this government that seek, in theory, to facilitate anyone who wants to come back and that have helped in the last calls – hold on – nine people, two through Landhome (one in 2017 and one in 2018) and seven in the Youth Return Program (one in 2017 and six in 2018). Six out of 23 applications: crazy. Year after year, unexecuted budgets; year after year, obvious failure of the return policies being carried out, but it does not seem that there are too many movements, or that at least since 2015 it would seem that they are carrying an autopilot on. Then we put our hands to our heads because there is no generational relief, I don't say anymore because people can't develop their life projects and have to go looking for life abroad. In 2016 we listened to Mr Lehendakari say that there are no frontiers in the world of work and that within the framework of companies, in the era of the global market, he urges young people to go abroad and see it as a job opportunity, although with the challenge of returning. Do you really consider, Mr Urkullu, that in the light of the data I have said, the challenge of returning is within the reach of anyone? Is it at the hands of the youth who go out to explore the world? For our group there is a lot of work to be done at all institutional levels and the task must be central, because it has to do with the ability, in this case, or the inability of people to choose those opportunities offered by the world you were talking about or to be able to face the challenge of coming back, which you were also talking about. Within the budgetary negotiation platform, for our parliamentary group this was a subject of one of the important lines of work. We have asked for information and have already reached agreement on this matter in this House. We know that the Government also recognizes that there is a need to turn around. What is our proposal? To do so by committing ourselves to reorienting return policies towards the recovery and guarantee of lost rights by migrating, guaranteeing access to housing, employment and social protection policies for all those returning to Euskadi. Elkarrekin Podeetik atzerrian bizi direnenen itzultzeko eskubidea bermatuko dituzten neurorien aldeko ekimena aurkeztu dugu, etxebizitza, enplegua edo eta gizarte-babesa itzuli nahi dutententenzako bermatu behar baitugu. Because it is their right, but above all, because it is the least, the decent, to have public institutions that are present, prepared to support the challenges and needs of people and that do so effectively. Beyond the numbers, it is the task of good public administrations to generate opportunities and opportunities for return so that anyone who wants to leave will do so voluntarily, but truly. It is our task that those who have left also have opportunities to return, regardless of their age, their training, their profession or whether companies hire them or not, because it is to build projects of life free of what we talk about, it is to put lives at the center. We do not share it from Elkarrekin We can have a utilitarian vision of human beings, we do not share it for those who come and not for those who leave. We believe that all people have value and rights, and it is for them that we have to do politics, for all of them. However, we are aware that in order to do this we need to know, and that certainly happens by assessing what is there. We are also aware that to be better we have to share and that that means giving in. From Elkarrekin We've been betting since minute one and working on this deal. We have welcomed and welcomed the fact that all of us in all groups have been generous and have managed to reach the agreement we signed today, a unanimous agreement by which we urge the Government to carry out an in-depth analysis, not only of the situation of the emigrants, but also of the causes behind that emigration. We also urge the Government to evaluate existing programmes and resources to facilitate return, which have a wide margin of improvement. We undertake that this evaluation will be carried out with the participation of the institutions and, to the extent possible, of the Basque communities abroad, that it will be carried out before the end of the year and that a proposal will be made for the reform of the existing programmes, which will also be brought before the end of 2019, taking into account specific measures to avoid anyone who does not have to leave. And we are also committed to an improvement in data collection, which is key to a systematic assessment of return policies, including questions that allow to disaggregate data that provide essential keys for the constant improvement of public policies. And I think it's a good deal. It is not the one I would have liked, it is clear, but it is a good step forward that allows us to stop, know and move forward. From Elkarrekin We can be very eager to comply with this agreement and we sincerely and honestly hope that it will serve and be useful for citizens to exercise what we consider a right in capital letters: the right to return. Together we shall follow the ardent continuation of this agreement which we have obtained from the Podemos; we hope to be useful to the people of Eascal, who have gone abroad. The right to return is an agreement to ensure it's written in grave letters. Because it is essential to build opportunities for anyone who wants to return home, and that goes without question by including effective measures that start to solve what doesn't work. And in our opinion it will also be necessary, depending on what has been assessed, to include measures for specific needs of those who have a great qualification or specification – as my colleague Josera Becerra said in the initiative discussed in May – but also of young women who do not find a future in Euskadi even if they are not engineers, of women who are victims of sexist violence who may need specific advice, of girls and children who grow up without knowing their roots or who at least grow away from them, or of the currites and curritos, of anyone who, like myself, has had to go to some country to work in a bar, to care for creatures, to clean houses or to care for our grandmothers, as many women do here. In short, measures to ensure that anyone who has left has public support to return, if that is their wish, because there is no one left here. In this sense it is in which we presented an ambitious proposal, and it is in the same where we have no glue, but we express the joy of leaving elements aside to succeed in building in the common. I want to end up thanking again the generosity of all groups, because it has been easy. The proposal has been enriched and we share it today. It shows how there has been will on the part of all to reach an agreement and I am glad to be part of putting useful solutions for citizens. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Lehendakari, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Guanche for raising this debate today – well, she has brought this debate to us for months – and I would fundamentally like to thank her for the interest she has shown in us reaching a unanimous agreement among all the groups in the House. And besides, as the points of the agreement have already broken, little more remains for me to say. So, they're gonna let me do a little history. A little bit of history because I believe that the problem that we are talking about, to which you have clearly referred and which you have developed and deepened with a lot of data that put on the table a real problem, a very important problem that we have in our Community, is a new problem, this did not happen before. If we look back, 50 or 60 years ago, Euskadi arrived, if not thousands, hundreds of people every day who came here to work, who came from other parts of Spain, from other parts of the world, who came here to work because ours was a boiling pot of jobs. A lot of simple, unskilled labour was coming, and very qualified people were coming too, because it was necessary for the large companies that had already settled and were growing at an impressive pace, and for the new ones that were being created. The whole industry grew, the whole construction sector grew because new houses, new buildings, new places where those people could live and work had to be created. They grew up service companies and small businesses that provided their services – sorry for the redundancy – to all those new people who came to live among us. Many companies were set up. I remember the story of a person, who rode trains on this railway line from Madrid to Irún and at the height of Gipuzkoa, many people who came from other parts of Spain were getting off the train where they saw a familiar face on the platform. They didn't have anything, they didn't have a job offer, they didn't have a personal development plan. Nothing. They saw a familiar face and got off the train and stayed there because they knew that in a few days they had a job, in a few months a home at their disposal and they could bring their family. All this fantastic growth was made by hand..., well, there was no Basque government, it didn't have to manage it, our other institutions, the parliaments, the municipalities, our local institutions did, but, well, managing things well when they go very well is easier. It was suddenly stopped by the energy crisis of the early 1970s and the successive economic crises, and we stopped growing at that rate. But, nevertheless, we had enough muscle and we knew how to accommodate all those new generations of baby boom That was truncated later. ETA terrorism arrived and hundreds of thousands of people left Euskadi because, although they had work, what they wanted was to work and live in freedom. And there our institutions did little or nothing to get those people back. It was very difficult to make an offer so that those people could come back when the atmosphere remained unbreathable to them and the cause for which they had to go was still on the table and, of course, our land was not attractive to them to come back. They took their families and in many cases took their businesses and businesses, and that was not well managed by our institutions. And today we have a problem that is different, the origin is different. Today it turns out that our young people are leaving. Many of our young people – not all of them, of course – go to other parts of Spain and to other parts of the world, because they are highly qualified. Most of those who go are the best..., not, obviously, the best people, but those who could be our great professionals, are perfectly qualified and do not find a fit, a development for their personal and professional life in Basquedi, and then decide to leave. And the data is on the table: our youth unemployment is very high and, above all, among those who find a job here, the precariousness of these contracts is terrible. That, what do you do? That the best, the most likely to find work out, or some of those best "I'm not going to say that everyone left here is second-class," he said. They leave and carry out and develop their project of life outside the Basque Country. And we missed a great opportunity, because those people were going to generate a lot of wealth, they were going to generate a lot of well-being, they were going to leave their families here, and so we would continue to be an industrial engine, an economic engine that maybe at the moment we are not as much as we were at the time, a few years ago. And public employment isn't good either. The precariousness in public employment is very high: 3-4 out of ten Basque public employees are temporary. And, of course, when a person, a young person, wants to develop his professional career, his personal career, in the field of public employment, if he does not have the appeal of stability, he obviously takes and leaves. Because, if something is attractive about working as an official, it's stability. If you don't have that, you don't have those possibilities and the percentage of young people among the interims of our public service in all the institutions is very high, all those people are leaving. And before that, what do we do? Well, I don't think we're doing anything. I think that the data – which I am not going to repeat – that Mrs Guanche has put on the table from those return programmes is ridiculous, it is absurd: either someone has no interest in those people coming back or someone has not understood that these people have needed to leave, that they have not done so by their will, it is simply that they did not have opportunities here. That is why the agreement that we all signed and signed today, what it does is to ask our institutions, all those involved, but fundamentally the Basque Government, to look inside: what is happening so that Euskadi is not attractive to many young people? Why do our young people, or many of our young people, not find an opportunity for full, personal and professional development to create a family, to make their vital project in the Basque Country in which we all live? Because that's our future, that's the big problem. Those are the ones who are going to take us to the top positions at all levels of Europe, and they are going to pull the cart out of our economy. Without them we are nothing and would become a third country. That is what we ask our institutions, to look at what the problem is, what has happened, why good jobs, attractive jobs, we don't create them ourselves, don't create them by the companies we have, why don't other companies come. We're talking about companies leaving. Hey, of the thousands of companies in Catalonia that have gone away from the crisis of the Catalan independenceists in the last two years, how many have come to Euskadi? It is a pity that Mrs Tapia has gone, she could tell us; none, I think, one or none. Of the thousands of companies that have fled from Britain, the United Kingdom, through Brexit, how many have come to settle in Euskadi? One or none, or two or three. I don't know, thousands, none. Why? Because we're not attractive. That's what you have to look at. That's the real problem. The analysis we are asking the Basque Government to make is an analysis of why we are not attractive to third parties, to those who have to come from outside and for ours to stay here. Because a lot of people used to come to work and today people leave here. At this point we can become a country of old people, and that's bad for everyone. That is why I am very pleased with the agreement we have had among all of us and we hope that this time the Government will do its duty, look inside and take urgent steps to alleviate this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u87	Good noon, everyone. Where do we come from? Where are we going? These philosophical questions are those which arise every time we think about our existence. Such profound questions, which we often throw into jests, are those questions which we continually insist on defining the principles of our nature and identity. And perhaps not so constantly; sometimes it seems to me that we define plans, politics, to think that we define actions, where we are, what our present situation is, what we're doing, what we need, where we're going. And the chief physician of the Artolaries, it is true, from a few years ago, from a reflection and fact, that the young men among the nations had set up a plan of going back to the Basque Country, and also when the head of Tapyas put it in Villa. They started from a fact that the young men are going away, the young ones are out. They're there, and we need them back, and we need their initiative. So, you put some scholarships in progress, but they didn't work and the way they did it wasn't effective. Titularrek hala diote, baita ere, éta Elkarrekin We can talkeak egindako galderei emandako stantzunetik ikussi ahal izan genuine that has failed the youth return plan, but that still again counted 1.77 million, calls that only welcomed seven people, which is no more than 5 % of the total of what was proposed as objective. Even so, according to the Ikuspegi migration observatory, the annual average of 4,000 outflows from Euskadi of young people aged between 18 and 35 is a fact that is not at all reflected in how it is responding or how it is responding in these programmes, both in the aid to which it referred and in the youth return programme or the Landhome itself. Therefore, either we ask ourselves more questions, and turn to the reasons for the imperfection of the efficiency of these plans; or we shall continue the same with the reality of the young men who are continually going out, with difficulties which do not help their return; for we may continue to say, that we have these plans, or examine the reasons why we do not use them. And not only do we look at plans, but in that idea which keeps us in the correction we made, and in the medium we have obtained, we must also grasp the reasons which encourage these process of migration, this reality which sustains the prerogative of young and not so young. We were talking about high-quality employments and protection police, which would affect the results, so that people shouldn't have to go out. To promote young people's social employment, to protect a project based on social economy, to create a life project and a housing projects, all of which are reasons for not going. And, of course, it is necessary that there should be a view of the cross-line, as well as that of the more presbytery of these young girls. We have talked of wages in a continual manner in this legislature, and we have seen that among the younger men the wages grow larger, and consequently that such a point of view will be indispensable. And it will be necessary that the thousand formulas which arise from the young to prevent this capitalist and patriarchal society, not to debarrate from the young men themselves or from other collectives, but to facilitate the return or not the easier way, to prevent any obstacles from preventing the common projects of the housing, and to prevent those which are already in the car from becoming feminist. And the rest of us, we remember feminist girls from Talka and we send them a big hug from here. We have therefore given the government a space between the end of the year to examine what is the context that supports the reason of this state, and the reasons why the persons who have had to go abroad should not come to the present planet; and the most important thing is, that they should change the present programs, and produce new ones, so that they may be restored to us, and that we may arrive at this line of work, because we have a clear knowledge that we are not all in the best way; so let us resume our work and our proposition. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u89	Thank you, Madam President. I left where I left off. Well, let's go with the proposal, the agreement reached in this House on the return of the emigrants from Euskadi. I believe that we have all shared that, in the face of the exit of human capital or population, both highly qualified and with another qualification, with different formations, with different profiles and even with different aspirations, because not all have come out for the same reasons, although mostly it is true that they went out in search of better and more adapted job opportunities, not finding them in their country, as has happened elsewhere and for so long since the exit of the crisis..., we understand that the amendment finally negotiated, to what gives answer is to the primary need. The collective is multiple, diverse and not uniform: there are some very qualified people, who may be those who fit some of the plans under way, and there are other types of people with other profiles, with other formations, with other aspirations, in addition, even in their own vital process, who may pass by not returning or not returning now. I believe, in this sense, that the amendment tabled by EH Bildu has very much focused the debate on the basis of a diagnosis, of which group of people we are facing and that this group, with the participation of it and the institutions questioned – which is not only the Basque Government but which passes from the Government of Spain to the municipalities themselves – are those who address, I insist, since their participation, what their characteristics are, what their needs are and what their demands are. It was important because, if not, even the plans themselves, their optimization, their improvement and even at the time of the resources allocated to them cannot be made. In that sense, I am happy or I welcome the agreement, because I believe that we are bringing to debate an issue that concerns us all, but we are also going to get decisive action or action, that of diagnosis, which may seem at least as far as settlement measures are concerned, but it is the most, because it is the best way to get these solutions right, both to improve the plans under way and even to engage others in collaboration with other institutions. People who leave or come are not a commodity to anyone, and human value is shared by us all. Those people who have left and want to return we need them with us and we want them back. That's right. You'll have to be right with the best way to guarantee that turn. I have already said our position on this initiative and on how diagnosis is one of the greatest achievements of the consensus we have reached today, but I also believe that there is another main one: everyone who has left Basque, when they return to Basque, must have full rights and obligations, like all Basque citizens. We may have to adjust, above all, on employment issues, that there are new employment plans that we have recently adopted and with the maximum consensus also on youth employment with other paradigms, that we can deal with in a better or worse way, but there are citizens' rights that we have to display all under the same conditions: what happens to women who suffer from macho violence would have to be the same, before and after they return; what happens to people with fewer resources, those who are not so qualified as to frame them in a certain plan, will also have to be access to the public services and services of that Euskadi that we have created among all and to which we are waiting for them to return. I insist, I think what we ask is not a whim. It is a sound policy action or measure, which will help to optimize these plans, which will also help us in the sectoral policies of other and different departments in improving the public services and services given to people in Euskadi, also to those who come back with us and us. And I would like to congratulate myself, indeed, on the consensus achieved and the generosity, as has been said before, of all the groups in reaching consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, good noon. Congressmen, ye also, good noontide. Together we propose to discuss the matter as well as to the return of the emigrated persons from Podemos by Eucradi. The basic activity seemed to us to be very confused, as the proprieties were: it was mentioned of everything, but without any exactness. We believe that the young people who have gone to the other law for want of work, the families, and the adults, seek the opportunity of going back to the Euskula, so that we have come to a middle course, which will be unanimously accepted, all the teams agree in the purpose of the results. We agree that, in order to return emigrates with the proposal, the results we expected were not given by government programmes. They've had a bad effect than you've been waiting for, and that's why Euskooky's ready to rate the programmes and rethink and reorganize the initiative according to the report. There are various reasons for emigration. Not all cases are due to the lack of employment or opportunities in Euskadi. We understand that they require a detailed assessment in order to be able to give the best possible response to each of the various situations facing us, and the Basque Government is working on this. Viewed the few people and companies that have joined the Landhome program since its launch on an experimental basis in 2015, this year 2019 will not be called. The department led by Arantxa Tapia has already commissioned a thorough assessment of its low reception, so that it can improve it in the future and get to the maximum of people who might be interested in returning and that talent back to Euskadi. With regard to the youth return programmes of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, of all those registered – some data have been given – approximately 60% are those active in the Lanbide file that can be registered in the offers, according to data from the department on January 16 of this year. Podemus demands that the programme be changed in its basic initiative, but to achieve the best results, it is important to make serious ratings about the whole program, and so did you, Mrs. Guanche. According to what the report says, whether enough to be changed to be shared in the program, or not to the specific collectives mentioned in the initiative which should be given precise measurements, or whether the purpose of these programs should be so general or not, that the programs should be really effective, the porque pued ocurr que "Quien mucho," the pocoteta. And the original initiative called for differentiated treatment for families with minors or dependent persons, for women victims of gender-based violence who want to return, and the latter already enjoys specific support in Euskadi. Of course we must continue to improve it, but not only through return programmes. Therefore, in the third point of the transaction, we ask that questions be included in the forms that can clarify this situation, because we understand that in order to be able to improve and act we must have as much knowledge as possible. They also requested in the original initiative social measures for emigrants: access to health, housing or social protection mechanisms. In this country, health is universal, there is a subjective right to housing and social protection mechanisms are the most developed in the State, and we could even say that of Europe. Anyone who meets the requirements set out in each rule will be able to access such services and/or services; therefore, we do not understand that they are asking for specific measures for this group through programmes that promote and support return. We can agree if these people want to come back, they can help you with their different programmes, but once they've expressed the will to participate in the program, they'll have the same rights and duties as other Basques. We think it's important to mention this point, too. Around the young people, as you well know, there's been funk about her, and she's got her own specific initiatives under the Enplengues and the Education department, too. To conclude, in the first place, it is necessary to make a diagnosis of where there are defects, measures to be improved, and when carefully examined all these things, then it will be time to take measures, but not to confound them. If we want the emigrates to come back to the Euscares, we'll have to set up efficient measures that make it easier for them to turn around. Finally, it must be clear to us that, when we have decided to return, we are once in the Euskalia, it will have the same duties and rights as the rest of the Basque people. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. We'll take the answers turn. Mrs. Guanche from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u93	With your permission, I'll take it from the seat. Very quickly and just one thing, for this to clarify and that we are all talking about the same, because sometimes we come to agreements, but then it seems that we are each talking about their own. The original proposal actually makes proposals on specific groups which are based on broader analyses that do not only cover the Autonomous Community. Regardless of that, I do want it to be recorded in the debate that right now there are two programmes aimed at two very specific groups of people who are not working. And you can't disguise yourself otherwise. They don't work, and that's it. That said, there is a whole group of people who generally agree, who are usually those who are not great talents or who do not fit into a specific age group, who are staying out of these return programs and who are usually the ones who may find it harder to get back. That's why we insist. However, as I said in the opening speech, I think it is important that we evaluate so that we know how to better adapt public policies and that they reach the whole world. But without forgetting that this fulfilment of requirements also has to be adapted to those who have left unintentionally and to those who do not have tools to return. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Hurrengo... Ruiz de Arbulo? Ez. And the barrieta? Romero? Eta Amaia Arregik... ez. End of discussion, we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH and Eubertarians, half-correction signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 0; white, 0; 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u95	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. I interrupt the entire meeting until 4:00 p.m. It was two and twenty-one in the afternoon. The meeting resumed at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u96	Good afternoon. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of the parliamentary team, in order to obtain a new potential educational law, is the departure of the cultivation of the case in the fundamental agreement. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, the representative of the EHG, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u97	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. President, Mrs. Uriart. As you know, on the 22nd of October, we had a discussion about the foundation of possible education. We thought that after the October 22nd monographics the government would begin to move, from the result, and from the irritation and impatience which had hitherto been produced between the majority of the community of education, but it has not been so. We also thought he'd open the interlocution and go deeper into the conversation, but we were lawyers. We thought, however, that the Government had hitherto no relation to the groups of this house, since then relations could begin, and that things could be changed, but no such thing has been. We thought, too, that once we'd made a monograph on October 22, the various education-makers in a different way would change things, but we were not, we weren't, they'd be lawyers. We thought at least that the government would begin to support the arrangement of conditions, we thought it would act upon the formation of conditions, but not at all. Then, when I often think that if I were the Government or were the Government, or were put on the government's paper, which would be our goal, I'd like to think we'd do the same in the Government as we do in opposition, or at least I'd like to do. And what would we do? Well, try to improve the educational system that belongs to all of us. We think that's the government paper: Make a shared diagnosis of all of us. We think that's a mining headache. Try to identify where the differences are and where the agreements are, then to build a common floor between us, to make the measures start. Identify where we can start work and where we don't and what we have to leave for later on. And in the meantime, to create conditions, to make a policy of education, set measures for linking the schools at a disadvantage, to ensure the stability of the professors, to enable the autonomy of the schools, to protect the authorities... So many things you can do! But most of all listen to schools, to the school, to the unit of education, and listen to it. That's the only way I think we could get ahead of ourselves. But all this for what? What for? To be the most cohesion of society, to be the most prepared, to be a learned society. But we're not the government, and though we're not the government, we're going to continue to make our proposals as we have to-day. I know you don't believe us, I know there's no trust among us, but I swear we do our initiative with sincerity because we love our people, because we believe in education, because we live in passion. I swear. And we know that we don't do everything right, that we have a lot of deficiencies, that we're not perfect, but we're willing to learn, we're ready to make a way with the other operators and the community. For if we want to do something properly, we must all do it together, we must do it among all, because otherwise it will be the result, and it is the only way. Because it's the only way to get another couple of decades, if we're going to get an educational product, and there's no path here, there's no porch. And this is not yours or ours, this is not either you or us, nor, luckily, there are other agents, and it is a matter of all of us in a shared way, in the co-operative, in the projects, in the work together, in the division. We may also apply the pedagogy and advanced methods which we often profess in education in politics, in this house too. I think it might have been a nice start. What we're changing is we practice it and model it. Cook well. For that dish we have to prepare, choose the ingredients, work the ingredients, cook the ingredients, love, easy cooking, for good results. Because if we don't, the outcome we'll get will be very bad, it'll be short and it won't take us anywhere. And education requires education as I said before, and I want to confirm love, education demands passion, education demands medication, belief in education demands conviction. And meanwhile, the times have changed, they change, and they change faster and faster, and we have more complex challenges. And we, where are we? We, where are we? Well, we're all prisoners of our history, all of us, of our trenches, of invisibles, of corporativism, of faction, and the discussion of this day can also be witnessed. We are so prisoners and we are losing to the north, losing to the north, becoming the means of becoming the object, and becoming the more prominent in the situation. And the next years will be very violent, and will be very violent by the decline of the birth rate. The war until now, the war in which it takes money, may become a sad war to capture and draw children. And we ought to get out of that mad wheel we are, by the way we are, to draw out the roots that are in the origin of war and to introduce new roots. And for that, we must all lose to win. In order to guarantee the right of education for the sake of the students, and above all for the sake of the students, and especially for the sake of this society. I mean, see if I can explain. Education isn't the goal, it's not the goal. The right of the decision of families is not only a lie, but they are not ends, and all these are means. The means are to ensure the right of education to all citizens, with the greatest possible quality and the best conditions. We must distinguish between the intermediate and the ends by the terms; we must be clear to face the roots we have, for it seems to me that we are mixing with the terms. What are our targets for? In order not to divide the people and the neighbors, to equalize the people, to make all the citizens a part of this society, to be a learned people. In fine, to build a different culture to penetrate into a democracy. To penetrate even this political culture we still lack here. For in the end this people are not yours, nor ours, nor ours, because it belongs to any one and to all. And for this purpose there is need of education; yes, or yes, education is required. Education demands that the organization improves, requires modification, for the public good, before it is too late. Because we all deserve it, because people deserve an opportunity. And this is an opportunity which, as I have said, requires the improvement of education, transformation, organization, and condition in general, and I repeat, before it is too late, because we are late. We're late. What we propose is another possibility for each other. That's what we're asking for today. Another chance for each other. That's why we're here. What for? For the things we said. To make a dignostic compartment, to complete, real, and honest, with all its crudeness. To identify the disagreements and agreements we can have, to make our trust, and to search for the mediums, and then take the consequences. To begin with the situation we have to take, the short term, the mid-term and the length of time. And thus to establish the foundations, and to attain the measure. And that's what we're asking for today, after all, one more chance for our interaction in a shared way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing round the teams that's running, the Basque Popular Group. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselor and some other member of the Government, companions and companions. Well, let's see. When we receive this proposal, the truth is that we weigh it a lot, we weigh it a lot, because of what there is no doubt that what is expressed here are needs and are realities; and, Mrs Ubera, our group – and you know it – often coincides in these fields with you. For example, now, when you were talking about us being late, the rush that was... I totally agree, we totally agree with you. There are times for me to call these years the lost years, because nothing changes, everything remains the same. And it must be understood that eight years in a creature's life are all his adolescence, his pre-adolescence and his adolescence, the most important years of formation. Now, when you present this to us, you present it to us with aspirations that, in fact, seem praiseworthy but naive, praiseworthy but naive. Especially when it says "... in which a shared diagnosis is completed." See, that's just not gonna be it. Look, I'm going to give you a quick review, and please, as I'm going to talk about different groups, if anyone thinks I'm being unfair, correct me later. But, let's see, Mrs. Ubera, you have introduced a law on the right to learn Basque that says things like that you don't give the title of ESO to anyone who hasn't been able to accredit the B2. Yes, they do, really. How are we going to get a shared diagnosis? You have a concern that I understand, is legitimate, for everything that relates to the world of Basque, but that leads you to positions in which we will not be able to share diagnosis. In other things yes; above all, in the concern for diversity and the incorporation of diversity, there we will agree. Elkarrekin's group Podemos makes a legitimate defense to the detriment of the public school. It calls for gratuitousness, which we too call for from all compulsory education, but at the same time calls, without asking for different funding, for the elimination of any other resources that are not public in the concerted schools. I mean, he's asking them to shut down. They can't survive, otherwise. Either we ask for different funding or they won't be able to keep up. We're not going to be able to get a shared diagnosis. Let's see, from the government..., look, I'm going to get freaked out, but the Socialist Group is "yes, but no, but no, but, well, maybe, but rather not." I haven't just made myself clear. And the other group that supports the Government, the Nationalist Group, I think is simply afraid. You're going to tell me no, that how can I say you're afraid, that you're braver than you are, no one. But I think they're afraid because they didn't just decant, they didn't just decant. You haven't just presented us with something clear, something you truly believe in. And I think I've been pretty clear about what our education group wants. And I'm going to make you here the quick enumeration, as I've done other times. See, we want an education that guarantees equal opportunities to promote social mobility, as we have often told you; that the child of poor people is not condemned to poverty, and that the children of wealthy people have to compete to maintain that status. Equal opportunities, first of all. Secondly, freedom to choose the kind of education parents want for their children. Third, free of charge; therefore, refinancing of the system. The Board of Education directly develops some centers and in others they have what I now call – although perhaps legally I should do some sort of mating – a management commission. He instructs them to manage them, but he does not pay the commission, he does not pay it enough; then, if we ask for gratuitousness, we have to ask for fair funding. Attention to specificity. That's where we're going to agree completely. We have come to the time of specific education: the child of high abilities, the child who comes from other countries and knows neither Basque nor Castilian, the child who has dyslexia, the child who has ASD (autistic spectrum disorders), the child who has any socio-economic difficulty... It is the time of education of specificity. And I'm going to tell you one thing: what's going on with demography is very sad, but it gives us the chance that, since we're going to have fewer children, we can better attend to specificity. Next point. Excellency, gentlemen, that's a bit of a coward to say, but let's go fatal, let's go fatal; the last... The counselor will tell me, "Well, in some things, it's not the place where there's less school dropout." Of course, if we get too low... And the level is low, counselor, it's low, but for the internal evaluations we're doing. That I, because I try to be polite, to the person who exposed it to us, who was talking about stability, said to him "Yes, yes, stability...", but, fortunately, Elkarrekin's person We may have been there was much clearer and said "Stability no; stagnation, stagnation." We're stuck. We have to pursue excellence. And finally, you will tell me that it is smaller, but for us it is not smaller because it is the tool to work in the world, extend and guarantee the learning of English. Mrs. Ubera, there we can agree on many things, but do you know when the time will be? First, in a paper many people come to give testimony, to inform us, and that we can do perfectly in the Education Committee, perfectly. We can call everyone we want and believe they have something to expose. And then, the moment of that discussion, which, of course, is necessary, will be when we are introduced to the law of education. It is that, here, what is missing is that we are presented with the law of education. Then we will meet, then we will talk, then we will discuss what we think, what we would like to add, what we would like to remove. In our view, this is going to be the time, the time when we consider the law of education. And I want to remember that the calendar is for 2019. Actually, I'm a little worried. Because, if you realize, we are about to start the last month of the first quarter; in the second quarter, apart from having the holiday period of Easter and Holy Week, we will have another 15 days of suspension or slowing down work because we have an election campaign; we present ourselves in June; July, August and the middle of September, we all know how we are going, and then we all have the third quarter. I assure you that we are concerned about how the calendar is going. Now, what you propose to us, after we all know each other well, after we all can take the Education Commission to everyone who we believe can contribute something, that debate you say, we think it has to take place when we have a draft bill on the table. That's why we're going to vote no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u101	Gracias, president. Well, I'm not going to feel either upset or outraged, much less, by Mrs. Bengoechea's references to what everyone thinks about education. I think it is more than obvious that everyone knows that the educational model of the Socialist Party and that of the People's Party are simply divergent. Today we come to discuss something else, a GNP that brings us Euskal Herria Bildu. I want to thank Mrs Ubera for the tone and attitude, sometimes almost evangelical and angelic, with which she has raised the issue, but I want to say that there are times when they seem to forget something. They seem to forget that on 22 October, you mentioned it earlier, not so many months ago, we already discussed this subject, the document of agreement on foundations for education. We discussed this document in a monographic debate in the Education Commission to lay the groundwork for a future education law. But, of course, that debate took place among the groups that wanted to participate in the improvement of the text, those that wanted to be part of it and contribute something in common among all. But you did not want to participate either in the vote on the amendments and you merely defended the return of the document from the first minute, and now we have the creation of a working group, a paper to work on the subject that you did not work on in your day in that monographic plenary. That's the reality, Mrs. Ubera. We can understand and assume even some criticisms that were poured on the document, and even some, we share them. But we did come to a common all the parliamentary groups, some things were, and it was a very generic document, it is true; that there were positive elements, but there were missing elements and that they had to be introduced. And for that the monographic debate was made, to make the relevant contributions. But, of course, what we do not share from beginning to end was that criterion of annulment and return of the text, because that means nothing less than to throw away all the work done until then, and in that we did not agree. It seemed to us that it was a good time to be able to improve the document prepared in the first instance by the department, to introduce novelties or clarifications that might seem interesting or novel. That is why we do not accept the criterion of annulling a procedure which, with its shortcomings, must be assessed and which you did not want to evaluate, vote or participate in the vote. Supporting his proposal would mean ratifying us in his idea, and we believe that it is necessary – we have said it many times – an agreement for the future education law that sets out the necessary measures to improve education in all its fields and that they are binding, and not subject to political changes. We agree on that, and I suppose the whole House. And, of course, we do not share Mrs Ubera's view of that document. We therefore continue to defend the current competition framework and the possibilities that our self-government establishes to make a law that fits within the competition framework and that improves everything that is necessary, because it has a wide margin of improvement. And I would like to recapitulate and recall what both the Government and our group proposed for that background document: firstly, we were talking about the public school as the central axis of the education system, as a reference in itself; we were also talking about promoting a model of comprehensive education that suits the citizens of the 21st century, with European strategic objectives of 2020; a secular, equitable, inclusive, quality, inclusive and scientific public education that enhances the promotion of talent. We must not forget that our education system is highly funded, and that is why we must be able to invest resources more efficiently and more effectively in order to achieve maximum performance. And to achieve this performance, it is established to provide stability to the teaching teams, reducing the rate of interinity and improving the rate of continuity of the faculty of each center, as well as establishing measures to create a well-trained and competent teacher, if we want to achieve excellence. To this end, it is committed – and reflected in these conclusions – to public job offers on an annual basis as a method of achieving teacher stability. To work on the immigration rate that, above all, currently supports the public school, responding to this situation of a growing segregation of students, which is evident by comparing the two networks, and to ensure equal learning opportunities for all through the development of quality programmes. All this was discussed in the motions for resolutions. And finally I will quote the English bet, to which our group has always paid special attention, generalizing a trilingual education system that surpasses the current models, without remaining behind in the face of international progress. We think that the level of English today is not enough, it seems obvious, and it is becoming increasingly necessary in a globalized world, where many of the skills are evaluated in the knowledge of that language, and that the three languages must be tools in the learning process. A clear bet was made that a subject in English should be taught starting with the 4th course of Primary Education in all educational establishments and that the foundations should be laid for educational establishments to work on a model based on the equality and integral development of the person, highlighting the rejection of all forms of discrimination. With these convictions, it was not with others – those were the resolutions adopted – that my group worked with to try to define that common framework. I understand that some people may find it insufficient or wrong, but what I cannot understand is that they are refusing to even participate in the vote on the amendments and that they would confine themselves, from the previous committee to that full monograph, to asking for the text to be returned. That was all his underlying argument, and it seems to us that this is unreasonable. That is to say, it is to escape, as they did here the other day, when the accompanying bills had to be voted on ("We do not vote"), that in the end, what comes to be is a abstention and not something else. In any case, it would have seemed to us important and necessary that they should have been more involved. I think it is worth appreciating, for all that I have mentioned in my speech, that work, and that is why my group is going to vote against its non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u102	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u103	Good afternoon, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. As has been said, on the 22nd of last October, at the Committee of Education, we made a monographic essay on the educational agreement of the Government. The Chamber was the first and only dispute about the foundations cultivated by the government. This, first of all, is the first thing that ought to call us attention; the only parliamentary dispute of making a new law of education, one morning light; which, I think, was carried forward by the few and false consensus. Our team's voices that day were very clear. The need to start again in front of so bad a process, had to start again in front of a process that had so little part in it, that it had to start again in front of a process of diagnosis and non-comgnostic common. Why do we say that? Because we think we need a real participate in order to form an effective process. We need a process designed among them all, not a process designed by the Government, and a process made from a diagnosis built in common. We believe, in the necessity of this process, that it is still very necessary to put the process into action and to a real agreement. Once on a time, when we're in diagnosis. Today we are not discussing that document as the basis for the elaboration of a future education law. We are also talking, in our view, about ways of doing politics, about the forms of actual debate to reach agreements in this area in the Department of Education, we are talking about not repeating that process initiated by the Department of Education for that background document. Because it was a process with participatory dyes but we put it in question from the very first moment, not because we and we just did it, but because so many educational agents put it. And if from the very beginning there are important educational agents who are questioning the process, I don't think the results are going to be sufficiently motivating to make a law fit. And today what we have..., it has already been said this afternoon, is a basic agreement, a basic document, supported by the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party. A completely inadequate basic document, a basic document that is criticized not by Elkarrekin Podemos, not by this initiative that we are debating right now, but by all public education agents in our country. "Y nsostros seguimos, además, con las mismas doubte que teniamos ese 22 de octubre." Why a new law? What was it and what is the real purpose of this government when it started and continued with this process: To strengthen public education or to strengthen it in this rupture of the two networks? Finishing Segregation? Who wants to test a new law without knowing why? What sense does that have without effective participation? And when we talk about not repeating the process initiated by the Government, we say, as we said in that committee, it was a participatory process, in part, but designed, directed, scripted, and the educational agents, many of the educational agents, what they asked was, first, to agree on how the process had to be done and then already to discuss the document. A process, as I said, directed and scripted, and which – I say again – left out with that design many agents who, from the very beginning, wanted to participate in the very design of the process of discussion of that basic agreement; and, curiously, they are the agents of education and public education to whom they left out; no, they did not leave, but left them out. And I think that, as this process has gone wrong and we have warned of it, this debate in the Committee on Education has gone wrong, because having a majority vote on an educational issue is not the best solution, although, of course, it is a legal step forward. Because it has already arrived, even at the Euskadi School Council... we have to analyse the particular votes that were made in the opinion, which, apart from being non-binding and other things that we have already discussed in the Education Committee, what did those particular votes say and who were they from? And how much weight do these particular vows represent if we measure that it is the representatives of the workers in education, who are the families of the public school? How much weight does that have in a debate about education? And the government didn't answer these private votes and didn't change anything. This agreement was signed with the Popular Party, yes, with these English things, but in most of the other matters they are false contact with PP, among the two examples of which you have now explained by Mrs. Bengochea. But it's true today's discussion isn't about that document. We will defend the Basque People's proposal of meeting, and we shall do so, because it is very clever, because it requires only to develop a band of works, to make a common diagnosis, and to make a deep discussion in this legislature. That's what he wants from the subject we're discussing today, and who can be against it, against a deep discussion, against a common diagnosis? Of course, we have our ideas, and then we're going to hire them, and we probably don't have a deal in model and in lots of points, but why don't we try to form a common diagnosis about the state of the education system? A scientific diagnosis, but even discussed in Parliament, cultivated and without haste. Why are we rushing to a subject which is so important? What's the rush? Why, yes, this agreement or document must be the criterion, and not other documents, or other agreements? We have our proposals, of course, but then only the first three or four were voted on, in which we called for that document to be returned. We believe that it is from the participation of the educational community and from the participation of civil society and educational agents from where the future law on education has to be built, if among all of us we also decide that this future law is necessary. We must talk about the objectives of inclution and parcisity. With enough funding, we have a serious financial problem in education system, we don't complete the financial level that international institutions call it. We need a new system of evaluation, we've often talked about it at the Board of Education. We have to expand democracy in the schools. There is no efficient democracy system in the schools. The new education system must respond to social changes, to education innovation. An educational system that is built on a dynamic basis that is able to respond to the problems we have in this 2019, to social change, to educational innovation, to diversity, to the phenomenon of school segregation for reasons of class and for reasons of origin. An educational system whose ultimate purpose is the integral formation of the person, and not mere employability to sustain the productive system. And, in addition, emergency measures that I think we need to take. These are our eight proposals, so that they are very quickly expressed, but at least I think we need a work of the common sort, a serious and a partie. We need a diagnosis first, to make deals. That's what we're asking for, we're going to do it, and, I think, it would have been a nice picture to get a large agreement or consent of all Parliaments in education, but we can't accept a basic agreement that leaves a lot of important teachers out of education. And as I was saying before, seeing this arrangement, I don't want to see what this imaginary law is like at the moment. We say it again at the moment: We are ready for discussion, for extensive agreements; I am speaking of an agreement on the axis of the public school; and these extensive agreements, I think, might be very exemplary for society, and we must at this moment have these agreements between different political parties to ensure the future of the education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u104	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u105	Thank you, Chief. President, chief physician, good afternoon to all. Well, now, having taken in hand the Rule of the Parliament today, EH Collector proposes to us to form a company of workers, in order to penetrate into the foundations of education, to form a compartment of diagnosis, to form, to identify, and to make a report that the agreement and consent of the community have taken, cultivated, and received consequences. And in order to arrive at this conclusion, he presents a very long explanation with all his dark lights. He wants to form a group of people to place opinions and attitudes on the table. Almost every week at the whole meeting or the committee, we're discussing things that have to do with education. And I dare say they are sufficiently familiar to the preference and challenges which the Jestric Party sees in the educational system. And I shall not recall all that has been said in different disputes, here are the archives of this parliament, but I would like to make a summary of the essential characters of which we are concerned. We have insisted that one of the most important factors for which society and individuals should advance is education, and consequently that education must be among the most important challenges as a people. We put the student in the center of the system. It can't be different. We have insisted that the system must be adapted to the wants of society, which is constantly changing, and not conversely; so that education must be a policy which is constantly forming. The objective of education is, of course, to provide integral education. That it is the right of the citizen to acquire a quality education, and at the same time that it is the duty of the Ministry of Education to provide for this social education. We have also insisted that education is a public legacy, and consequently every educational service must have all principles and values in the mind. We've insisted that we believe in the entire euscal educational system, as a whole, we appreciate all the networks. And again and again we have said that families have a right to choose a project which they want to choose for their children. Our challenge is that our system with the Euskara axis. We want a system that makes economic resources more efficient and more efficient, and an educational Ministry. That we believe beyond the technology that we believe in the system that works in the constant innovation of methodlogies. And there are many other marks I could bring to-day, but there is one, at least, which I would not like to forget. And what is it? Well, defense of jurisdiction. In order to complete all that has been said so far, we have done it in the defence of the self-generacy and educational rights, and we shall do it again. These and much more, in the monographics on the basis of education, on the 22nd of October, were discussed with great accuracy. The law club introduced more than a hundred proposals, and we can find out what Mrs. Bengochea thinks is by the Jeltric Party. There are the priorities we establish, and there are our challenges, and I think we left them easily recorded. On that day we spoke of multiplicity and culture, of equality of choice, of incultion, equity, social panic... Beyond school, with the necessity of answering from different perspectives and institutions, the regulations of educational processes, the information to give families, the direction of life plate on various networks, the proper answer to the different wants of students who have just come from abroad, to identify the steps of excellence with the instrument of evolution... We spoke to help schools and classrooms with special difficulties, and to give proper and adapted answers to different local realityes. We talked about educational professionals. We talked about the importance of families in child-boys' training. We talked about theology, the technology. We spoke of proposals to increase stability in schools, of public offer, of substitutions, of means. We talked about the initial training of the teachers and the endless training of languages. And the reflections and proposals which we have received in all these propositions of solutions show, in what direction the education system ought to go, what methods of education we desire, and how we ought to treat of it. And there's our North. At least Jeltth Party is not lost to the north. The North is well defined. He fixed the north exactly in this monograph, and I believe that he who would understand rightly understands what he received. I don't know, as Mrs. Ubera says in action, this discussion must have been deeper and more peaceful. We could discuss that, too. All I know is that that today EH Bilt took no part in any discussion, and that he had lost an excellent opportunity. He didn't want to go into the subject, he was dumb. And he didn't dare write his proposals. Only one thing EH Collect said: as it was not agreed, it was a document to be thrown back. And in our group, we must face the legislatures to say that we agree or disagree, but always face up and don't look for excuses. The long list of arguments which we are engaged to discuss seems to be a long list of arguments to justify the formation of the herd, that the law must be permanent and stable, and that with many of these assertions I agree that they are appropriate to me. But with other assertions, we can't agree at all. There is one which, in our opinion, is very extraordinary, and carefully summarizes the intention of the enterprise. He says: "to doubt the whole system." We're ready to talk about things that can be adaptation or improvement, as we've been up to now. But what we do not allow is, that the decision of the organization of the work is not yet made, and that the whole system must be doubted before we begin to speak. This would be like building the house from the roof, and it does not appear to be the best beginning, nor the most honest. Mrs. Ubera has mentioned that there is confusion between ends and means. I have often used this account on the committees, I believe that in many controversies the end and the means are mistaken, and the end is, I think, clear. The aim is to guarantee the right of education, because it is a public educational legacy. And the means are the politics of education, the means of education, or the means, which are required to develop the educational policy and the educational politics which are begun at the moment. We have, therefore, a clear notion of the end and what means it is. But there is another confusion, which has been here in the air, and which concerns the unit of education. It's said, "He's against the HR of Education," both Mrs. Uberia and Mr Martín. Every time you make that statement, you despise dozens of responsible, collective, educational personnel. In fact, you've re-conjuven the part and the whole, because in the whole process of participation multiplicity has prevailed. Because it is logical that they have been represented by different sensibilities, different points of view have been supplanted, the exchange of opinions has been dominant, and has prevailed on the majority to build and agree with them. I should say more, that though some operators participated in the process, and contributed to it, they determined not to protect the last document, although many of their contributions have been received in the document. It is not true, therefore, that what Mr. Martínnez said was not in consideration of the contributions of the agents, this is by no means true. The contributions of the Basque School Council have also been taken into account. So some people preferred to participate and get off the bus the last minute. Others, worse still, decided to be out of thought from the very beginning of the trial. They'll know what made them do it that way. It doesn't seem like that of the builders, if we insist on the participation of the educational unit in this Chamber and when there's occasion, like certain legislative groups, if they fail. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u106	Thank you, Mrs. News. Passing on the day of the answers, representative of the EH Collectors. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u107	Dear madam, I don't understand why such resentment comes, I don't understand. Look, here every one may insist upon his example in disputes several times and again, but this does not lead us to anything, as Mr. Egbar says, going round and over the precipice, and wasting the years, and finally the 19th. 21th century educational system. it is impossible to respond to a dependent society. That's how we find ourselves. Mr. Pastor, Mrs. Newori, have you ever seen me dumb? If I have anything, it's because I don't have the trouble to talk, the trouble to get wet, we don't have any complexes there. We participated, we filed, we discussed it. Yeah, we didn't vote. We didn't vote. I don't have any talent in 20 minutes to give an answer to a state of perfect education. I think it's a lot more serious than that, that he's asking for another political responsibility and that we have to play with another responsibility. Maybe we're not ready and it'll be my mistake, but one morning? Answer a whole state of educational system in one morning? Please! And here, how did the trial go? How did the trial take place? They weren't involved in education. The people of education took it. There was no conversation with the citizen's delegates. There wasn't a rating made about the frame that's been made. Basic, isn't it? What worked? What isn't? What's lacking? We think it's a minimum to start with. Look, we're not going to give you a check, we're going to deal with political care. We want to be part of it. We propose to do another job. But we don't just want us to be part of it, and we want political parties to be part of it, we want whole education units, not one part, one piece, one whole (the societymen, the scholars, the agents, the unions, the parents), all. Everybody. And we take all because we need all our attentions. Look, and if you don't want to participate, Mr. Pastetor, you have all right, you have every right to eat what EAJ brings you. You have every right to it, but we're not ready for it. We want to be a part of it, because we're in front of something very serious. And look, Mrs. Bengochea, yes, we've had a lot of shows in education. You know what happens with the shows? I didn't know how many scenes of language model treatment. I'm trying to write the commissions down from different paths. There's no way. There's no way. So, where's our job? I want to do my job, I want to do it right, to be a foundation for those who come next and not lose time. Yeah. Then the diagnosis doesn't mean we'll agree any time. I said straight out: he identified agreements and disagreements. And besides, we see egnognosticism in the everyday, i'd say almost everyone agrees, everyone. Dissociations follow, then, in proportion as we oppose it. Can we identify agreements and disagreements? Well, let's get started, shall we? Education demands a deep exercise. Look, we have a very complex situation, very complex. We've moved from the educational development to the LOMCE application. In the hands of workers the constant conflict, the segregation is increasing, the aspect of the opportunity is losing, it's stabilizing and penetrating two-speed education system, the results in the efficiency of the battle are getting worse and worse, you've got to cancel the Heego program. Now come with a proposition of the schools, which no one can see, and Mrs. Are you in the North? Are you defending your jurisdiction? Who are you making this deal with? Who did you think you were up to? With Popular Party, yesterday in the Senate, he proposed to abolish the State of Guernica with that which does not wish to transfer, with that which forces LOMMCE with which it attacks our language. And is that our jurisdiction to defend our education and defend our society? Is that your North? If it's your compass, don't tell us about it, because that's not our compass. That's not a compass. And here we can be prepared to talk to everyone, even to the Popular Party, but education requires a different consideration. He asks to take it seriously, to take our society seriously, to give all the people the equality of choice that we deserve, and to build his own life. And see what a landscape we've got. It's a very complex situation, with all the attacks that come inside the house and outside the house. So we have to fix the compass. Then everyone will see the decision they make here, but here it's the minimum seminary, the minimum miniminum, the hearing and considering the educational unit, and all the rest of the education units, and all the rest of it, and not the whole.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u108	Go and finish it. Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Popular. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u109	Lehendakari, counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, let's see, Mrs Ubera, look at me and our whole group trying, not that consensus, but at least that good deal that we should all have in common, because we've all been elected by the citizens to represent everyone. Let me tell you something, do we get dirty rags? Dirty, dirty rags from your group? Because I will tell you one thing: the members of my group, like members of other parties and members of other collectives, have been willing to give life for this country, which others have not been. So, please, a little respect. And that's what I'm going to demand, a respect, because I've been willing to give my life for this country, and I'm going to take it to the end. And the truth is I'm sorry to have to say it, because I always say that, well, there are things that have to be pointed at the ice and put to the sun, because everyone... but for this country I've been willing to give my life. And if that makes me a devil, it makes you inhabitants of the underworld, but inhabitants of the underworld. So, please, a little respect. That said. The diagnosis. The diagnosis. Let's see, diagnoses, ladies and gentlemen, compañeros and compañeras, we have facts, technical diagnoses are made, because, if there is something we have in Education are continuous and constant evaluations – I think that in the last evaluation that had to be done now there has been some problem of awarding the company and is going to be delayed; those are the news that I have had, but we have constant technical evaluations –; what we don't have are forecasts, forecasts. Each has a different prognosis and each of us, each group, has different treatments, different means. But don't talk to me about a shared diagnosis. If it is that a diagnosis in education, unless we are talking about something emotional or something ideological, the technical diagnosis is made! And there I have to tell the PNV representative that, in fact, she has a bomb-proof optimism: that it is a system that enjoys very good health, that the north..., I don't know if it said the north or the compass, iparroratza edo iparra Bakarrik, but that they have it clear, that I don't know what... Look, if you're clear from the north, I think the boat has a lot of quick sands in front of it, lots of low sands, lots of cliffs, and that's not because I say it, I'm ash, but that's because the diagnoses we have tell us. It is not a system that enjoys health, it is not a system that is reaching the goals we all want. And we're all gonna have to make an effort. And maybe now I'm naive, but I put a lot of hope in the new education law, I put hope in it and I'm waiting for it. But please, I'm telling you, your north... I don't know, it's gonna take us to a waterfall or something. Little more we have to add, I think everything is said. We have already talked about what our goals are; we have already talked about that we are open to talk and to share and to agree with all, because we will be the devil, but I tell you, below us is the underworld. Let's be clear about that. And nothing, as long as you like, Mrs. Ubera. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor mustn't speak. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u111	Good afternoon, again. I have not the strength to make a strong defence to-day, but I will try to explain our position again. First of all, I must say, Mrs. Ubera said that you argued against your rights in this defence of the educational system, and one thing is to make specific and exact agreements with Popular Party, but the agreement you have for the future is for the education system with Poptular Popt. And you know what happened yesterday in the Spanish Senate, and you know that you've signed a statement against our party and our meeting with EH against this motion; and I don't know whether it's compatible with what you said before. And I don't think it's necessary to do here a competition of who defends more; in that, surely, if we do a competition of who says it more, surely it is you, but who defends more and better the interests of Basques and Basques... But I think that must be taken into account: with whom the basic education agreement is also held, it is with the People's Party, the same one that you are criticising that goes against competences. And we're talking about defending the school here in Euskadi. Sobre el papel de la comunidad eduactiva, almost all the personnel of the public school were excluded. The process was the one that got them out of the process. Or else we'll ask the unions. All of them. If you want at the same time, or one at a time, as you like. I don't care what you want. Ask all the unions. All of them, eh? Let's see what they say about this deal. And then you said it was a chance to find a deal. What is it: The only ones who can put down dates for the deal is EAJ and the World News? I don't think so. I think if we make a case that we all agree, it would be much more useful and much more efficient for the future. Yes or no? I think so. And we have differences. I think it's obvious, not only in this pleno or the Board of Education, but can't we do these differences before we get a legal project? Or what is the purpose of this bill of legislation? Then like Mrs. Bengochea said, when is she coming? Because, in fact, it's for this year in your government plan. When will he come, and why can't we do these differences before we bring him this bill of laws? Why can't we work on it beforehand, between the various parlamentary groups, and between the different motives? This agreement has almost every part of public education's indisputable refusal. What can we do with it? What can we do? If half the education system is against it, what law will be made? And few more. I think we're facing another lost opportunity. This proposal and other proposals... Last week or last week we discussed a proposal of our party to guarantee the freeness of the education system and even you opposed it. We'll bring more initiative from my team later on. What will be the will? We're prepared for a settlement, but where's the will in the government, the Social Party and the EAJ? Where is the will to seek a bargain for the future of the education system? Nik ez dut ikusten. G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G-G. Berriro esaten dut prest gaudela hori martxan jartzeko, to make a serious debate, calm, leave also - of course - some of our proposals for ceilings on the table, if it is for the sake of the education system, if it is for the prioritisation of the public network and for an inclusive education system. We and we, I say again, remain ready and ready to carry out that debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u112	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. Eubertarians. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u113	Thank you, Chief. I don't know who's really angry this afternoon. With the permission of the speakers of the debate on beet, and like Mr Darpón, for one day we can increase the recommended daily dose of sugar, to see if we lead this a little better. I want to confirm what I said on the first round: On the monographic table made by the Jeltarian Party committee he added more than a hundred solutions. We, at least, have already put in our opinion which are the principal challenges of the educational system. We have laid down on the paper what are the principal preponderance, and it is, I think, the practice which is intended for this day to be formed. And we've been working on it for months since then. And if you'd like to give us your opinion after you've read them and worked them out, your worries, your proposals, if you want to share them with us, we'll be happy, we don't have any trouble for that. But ye must still do this preliminary exercise: what challenges and priorities ought to be. But what did you do on the monographic day? Well, EH Collect failed again, but it's not the first time. You tried to get the ball out of the game so no one would play. And even if it was a chance, you didn't work out the subject and you didn't participate in the vote. And you said, "How can the entire euscal educational system be fixed in 20 minutes?" 'Of course no one said that. No one said that. I mean, we brought it to 100 solutions. We didn't do it in 20 minutes. You could have done the same, but you didn't do the same. You went on tours, maybe last Thursday, hiding and giving no opinion, or, in other words, leaving the voters without replacing them. And I believe that a party of political or coalition, which is intended to direct a popular institution, may be much more responsible for it, but those who vote for it must be judged not by us. Today, however, Mme. Ubera has awakened her desire to play, and she wants to put another ball in the gaming-room, but she has not asked the others whether we intend to play or not. And in the first round he mentioned the necessity of recovering his confidence, he said, in his explanation. But I do not believe that confidences can be formed in an artificial way of work, where confidences are cultivated in daily practice, with what is said, with what is not said, with words, silences, work, sympathy, respect... And all this concerns the community, but I think that in all the relations of life, more or less, it works exactly the same. And you have not shared with us the need or propriety of this company; it has come to you, you have introduced it, and today we are able to discuss it. And we don't think it's a good initiative or a good time. When you're in a state of education, when you get a law project and bring it back, you'll have a chance to talk about something specific, to discuss and get to the agreements. And Ms. Ubera and Mr Martínez wanted to talk about the defense of the rights. Well, in self-defence, in defense of the jurisdictions, in the defence of the Basque institutions, the Jeltarian Party had to be executed alone. Alone. Well, Aguirre, Ardanza, I'm sure was very good. He mentioned it this morning. Great. Now. In the future, as well as in the future. The Podemus wasn't there together, but do we have to remind ourselves of what the EH Collectors were doing here again? I won't, I won't, don't worry, but I won't remember what EH was doing all the time. But I don't have to go very far in time... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u114	Please, please! Silence! Please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u115	I don't have to go back 20 or 25 years, you don't have to. Well, recently you know exactly what EH Collect did in Madrid. What did he do? Puff, and work, zero. No corrections, no suggestions. Who was in the defence of the eupscal auto-gourage and our jurisdictions? Again, the Jelt Party of the Eugal. You guys fail!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u116	Thank you. Casanova, please. It is not your turn. Please. We've ended our discussion and we'll vote the original text of the EHG as a group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 75; the supporters of the district 29; the contrary, 46; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u117	So, it's not accepted any other proposal than the original of the EHG. The seventh point on the theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: EH Collect a proposition as well as parlamentary groups, as to the "red Band" or "brown Band" which has appeared in the forests of Euskal Autonomia Errigo. The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together, about how the pines should be fused with the oxidic copper." Team proposeer's turn. Ms. Lopez de Lariyabe, the representative of the EH team, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u118	Well, good evening to all. I think we need to start handing out some sugar here in this House. I don't know if it'll be good for the beet industry or bad, but I think we'd calm down a little bit. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. Insignis pines now. I don't know if they're like education, but...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u119	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u120	I know this is the last point, but... Insignis is killing pines. That's it, everybody. The Insignis pines have been a financial resource for many peasants. That's it, everybody. So why don't we agree on this? "We're in the perfect storm," I heard this morning. February, heat, sun, lack of snow, lack of cold... What's more, we ate in the shade today on the street. That means that not only is the pine crisis not stopped, but it is going to be more. That nothing will come from heaven that stops her. That we're gonna have to put on our batteries. We are facing a crisis caused by the disease of the "red band" or "brown", as they wish, in the agroforestry sector, which is not only affecting the sector itself but also directly and logically, it is questioning the management that has been given over the last decades in the mountains. A crisis that must be one before and one after "We understand it this way" in the management of the mountains. Pine disease brings this crisis, indeed, but at the same time opens up a historic opportunity to discuss a new agroforestry policy that we want and that we also need. Today Euskal Herria Bildu – I think all groups have it clear – comes in propository mode. We will see if we can do this at the end of the afternoon, but we understand that the forestry model we have, this of the last decades driven by the government and by the different parliaments, of course, has failed. With disease or without it, with a massive cultivation of pines or without it, reality once again puts us back and gives us the opportunity to turn the boat... well, we understand that together. The discussion of the woods may be a very satisfactory one. The last decade wooding requires changes and innovations, and you need to rotate them into another pattern. Este es nuntro objectivo de hoy. This other proposition of the Law, we bring here with a particular purpose. Our object is to give a deep and open discussion with different agents. Now's the time to argue. But in a dignostic compartment to discuss. I just heard the "diagnostic Conpartitua" y creo he dejado de creer un poco en el dianóstico comdido, but I put it in because I've got it covered here. We should make a division of Diagnostics together with the forum tests in order to find alternatives and solutions. Another motivation for putting GNP today is to question the agroforestry management that has brought us here. The great difference between the management of the mountains in the three territories is enormous. I don't think I have to get into it right now, but we have to see a big difference between Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia. In Araba, with a majority of public management, with local entities as guarantors of their mountains, with a sustainable use and without a profit, is what we want: well-kept and well-managed public mountains. An example of how with consensus, with participation, with diversification, with the work of different entities and administrations can be achieved a logical management and also linked to local development and – of course – to territorial balance. In Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia the situation changes: mostly private management and increasingly away from agribusiness. Pinars have always been linked to the Basque primary sector, they have historically been the complementary income for those living in the primary sector, which few joys gave and few joys give today; for, it was a parallel income. They were a safe investment the pines, but this crisis has given that the investment has ceased to be an investment and is an expenditure. Pinars are no longer attached to the sector today. So much is tiny. Today this union is broken. These pine trees are increasingly in the hands of fewer people, seeking only economic profitability; there are even inherited pine trees, which are inherited, which are an insurmountable burden for those who have not experienced management. From EH Bildu we understand the need for a public debate where planning based on not only socio-economic but also environmental criteria is developed. A public debate I repeat, as a guarantee of transparency and participation, and as a guarantee of making policy in capital letters and of listening not only to the owners – who, in fact, have to listen to them – who manage the mountains, but also to listen to society, which in a way I would say collateral but practically direct also has things to say, and to all the agents we understand who have an interest in this subject. Mountains are more than a productive resource, they are a social resource and an environmental resource. But today brings us here the pine disease. In the face of this disease, which is not new – it comes from a long way back – putting in place palliative measures is practically useless, but it is not that preventive measures have been taken either. In 2014, when the Giant Foru Aldundia was in our hands, a report was sent to the Basque Mia. He mentioned in this report that there was a serious illness in the pine trees. No answer, no answer. But we can make sure that the government knew in 2014 that the pines were seriously ill and didn't do anything. No measure. It's been five years and we're in this shitty situation. It's been five years and all you see is neglect. We saw it in the summer of 2018, when the Spanish Biera passed here (especially from Bikakai), that the landscape was not green. It was brown, I'd say, almost orange. It's a terrible picture, but it's amazing, especially for people outside the country. At the same time, a effective photograph, which could have reacted or at least would have been of use. But it didn't work, 'cause we're here. Our proposal is very simple. Beyond being palliative, it's structural. It has four very simple steps, and we understand that not agreeing is "It seems" to put the short lights instead of the long lights. It has four points: shared diagnosis "I repeat, it does not mean that we vote the same, but that the diagnosis is shared, I do not think it is necessary to explain it." Open debate, because it has to be so; planning looking towards the future, in the medium and long term; and, of course, the rural development plan, which, as a guarantee that it is to collect the money that comes from Europe, must be managed so that it can serve us. Our non-law proposal was open enough to have been able to reach an agreement, we understand, but, well, after our proposal we would understand as logical an agreement between the parties, as a country agreement. It doesn't seem like it's going to happen, but I think we owe it to society. We would understand that we could seek an agreement of minimums, yes, but not any agreement, not an agreement where we would question another forest policy – it is necessary to make another forest policy; it is not that we want, it is that it has brought us here today–. An agreement for an open debate, because there is no need to be afraid of open debates and with various actors. It is also our responsibility to do so. An agreement where planning is brought to the heart of the debate – we have to look ahead, I have just said this – and above all that takes socio-economic, but also environmental, effects into account. And an agreement where the rural development plan's aid serves as a basis for opening up opportunities. In the Rural Development Plan we were very clear, and when we were going around, we proposed to open a line in the development plan with aid for agro-environmental or environmental services; well, that taking care of the mountains also has its reward. Why not? Today, what is going to come out of this debate, of course, is a minimum agreement. I just saw the transaction now. It's a minimum agreement, it's something, almost, that's already being done. So, it's not that we're wasting time at these hours here, but it does give the feeling that it's a little out of date. It is clear that with the things of eating you do not play – in that I am not going to enter and I think that we have absolutely clear here – but you do not even question what has happened so far. I think that's where we're being a little irresponsible. It is not possible to leave management and debate alone in the hands of those who have direct interests, because it would be conditioned to its benefit, it would come out a little shunned. As for fumigation, well, I just said, yes, okay, but fumigation is not a preventive measure. I'm not going into the fumigation as such, because what do we do to stop? Indeed, solutions must be given, but is fumigation the solution? That's the question. We have to take action, in which we agree, but does anyone guarantee that fumigation will stop this? Does anyone guarantee that fumigation will end pine disease when we're practically in summer and we're in February? Are there any guarantees? Is it going to fumigate without contaminating? Are there any guarantees that we're not going to contaminate any aquifers or anything? Are there any guarantees? Do we have all the reports that confirm it's the solution? No, no, Do we have authorizations? Neither. What will we do if the owners, municipalities, local entities, oppose smoking? What do we do? We'll go over with the planes and move on. Okay. Or is it a question of saying that there is a solution knowing that it is not? Or do we assume that smoking doesn't work, and we keep giving? Well, I think the government would have to ask you to at least not sell smoke. I don't know whether I smoke or not, but at least I don't sell smoke. And that, if you have to smoke, you should do it with all the guarantees, because the ones below are the ones that are going to be watered. From Euskal Herria Bildu we propose that there must be technical criteria, not even political ones. If everything says so, we will value fumigating or not fumigating. For the moment, above political positions, we stand on the sidelines and waiting. Well, so we saw it necessary to get a national agreement to give the sector real answers, but it's hard because we're talking about different patterns. That's clear. EH is ready to join a team to find some tolerable solutions. We've always been ready for it, and we're still on it, but looking for solutions is the government's responsibility, not ours, which is obvious too. And the solution must be agreed to with all the operators. If this is so, we are ready to enter into a deep and open discussion. But let's take a look, please, go ahead. This is an excellent opportunity to change the course and expand the opportunity for all of us. First of all, this model has failed, well, we know. The pines have always been necessary and supplementary in the life of the first sector. We can't deny that, but now things have changed, even though the pines are cut, the income of the first sector is not enough to keep them alive. The slaughter that farms have suffered can't be stopped and the pine funds haven't been enough to maintain the sector. We see a new mountain management necessary for those who live on farms and the mountains we have known so far. EH Bildu will support an agroforestry policy, to be new, consensual, participatory, sustainable and respectful, but respectful with everything: with people, with rivers, with the environment, in short. That's where we're going to meet. If expired proposals come, we won't be waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u121	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u122	Good afternoon, everyone. We're worried about the state of the pine forest, and we're also worried about the answer the government and the aliens have given us. That's why we've introduced another proposal of ours, a little, to give our opinion, and bring our proposals forward. The situation of the penguins is serious, we clearly know that the disease of the "red Viking" and "mardon" is a serious problem, there is no doubt about it. But at the same time the state of wooding is not easy, and we must admit it too. And both of them, disease or state of wooding, as they are serious, have economic influences, social influences, and environmental circumstances. This is why we think that the government ought to be careful, and that it ought to be wisely done when the answers are planned. Prudence, that would be the word that would define our position today in the face of fumigations. We need the Government to act with caution, with responsibility. With prudence and responsibility because we are faced with a complex problem, a very complex problem, and therefore the answers have to be logically complex. We cannot say "We have a disease in a few pines, we are going to fumigate them", because we have, ladies and gentlemen, 40,000 hectares of sick pines: Tolosaldea, Urola, Deba, Bidasoaldea, Durangaldea. We have a lot of hectares of sick pine trees and we have a proposal on the table by the government to smoke with airplane and a product that was already banned in 2015; therefore, we have a possibility of effects, of negative impacts, both for the environment and for the health of people. The European Food Safety Agency itself, in its official report, which is the only one sent to us today by the Government – I showed it two Fridays ago – states that this substance, copper oxide, poses a high risk to birds, mammals, aquatic organisms and organisms living on the ground, i.e. it is a high risk to virtually all living beings. And I imagine that includes the human being. As I say, the product that is intended to be used in fumigation was banned in 2015, although it has a moratorium until 2025, but it is a product that is already in question. And, as I say, two, three, five hectares are not to be smoked, but 40,000 hectares are to be smoked. And it is true that our pine trees are wrong, but in general our mountains are not well either, and the timber sector is not well either. And, therefore, in the face of a complex problem, we have to act in a complex way. And the first step to face this problem must be to examine the answers, the second to plan the answers, the third to put the answers in motion, and finally to evaluate the answers. And this government has done the contrary: the first is to put the answer in motion; the second is to cover it with false preparations; the third is to examine the matter; and we shall see how our solution is carried on, and how we ought to evaluate its efficiency. And that's not how things should be done. Ondorioak on which ezagutu behar say, on which neurtu behar say, Eta presaka ibiltzea behin-behineko arazo beat aurrean jabeak lasaitzeko ez da irtenbide onena. The answer to a complex problem, as I say, has to be very well planned. In the compromise reached by the groups that support the Government with the People's Party, there are three points, and in all three they talk about designing a strategy for the future. Wow, wow, wow! I thought that this future strategy already existed, it was presented in October last year; it was called "Basque strategy for the recovery of conifer forests", and, according to the press release published in Irekia, it said "The Basque institutions endorse their support for the forest sector and put in place a plan against pine disease, with three areas of action: generation of knowledge about the disease, measures to deal with it and measures for the recovery of the sector". How can there be a transaction asking for a strategy today, if we have a strategy made public in October 2018? The reality is that there is no such strategy, there is no strategy. No one has been able to see any document of that strategy. It was not published or approved by the Governing Council. There has been no formal process, including the mandatory reports it should have had. It has not gone through the environmental impact assessment process, as all strategic plans should. There is no such strategy. It is acting improvised and I would also say irresponsible. An example is the response given to this parliamentarian by the Department of the Environment when we asked him whether he was aware of the strategy and whether he was aware of plans to smoke 40,000 hectares of pines. The answer given on 29 November, that is, one month after the strategy was supposedly published, is: "This department does not currently have detailed information on the possible plan for the application of copper oxide by fumigation." This was, no more or less, what the Department of the Environment said to a question from this parliamentarian. So, we don't have any planning. And Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe has already said, we are putting at risk more wealth than pine trees are. Our mountains not only have pines, they not only have wood. They also have wood. Wood has its value, obviously. But in our mountains there are many things: in our mountains there are streams, there are fountains, there are mushrooms, there are mushrooms, there are plants, there are animals that eat from those plants, there are domestic animals, there are barracks, there are complete neighborhoods, there are birds, there are animals, there are living beings. They also have a value, they also have a value. Economic value. Are we going to put all that value at risk for a treatment that is unknown if it will be effective? Because let us bear in mind that this is a chronic disease. The fungus of the "brown band" and the fungus of the "red band" are chronic diseases of our pine trees. They didn't show up yesterday, they didn't show up yesterday. They have been dealt with for a long time and with limited effectiveness. That's why we have to look at the problem with a wide view, and as Mrs. Lopez de Rockiabe has said, not only the disease of the pine groves, but the state of our mountains and our forests, and the politics of the forest we have hitherto developed, we must examine other alternatives, the more effective alternatives and the long-term alternatives. I'm finishing up. Our parliamentary group is clear that in the face of a complex problem such as this, the lack of prudence, the lack of reflection, the lack of planning will definitely miss any response. And without that answer our group, of course, will never admit that 40,000 hectares of pines will be smoked without knowing what effect that will have on the disease, on people's health or on the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u123	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, representing the Basque Potula Group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u124	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Counsellor. Indeed, our forests are sick. Very sick. The forest sector in the Basque Country is mainly based on pine insignis or radiata, a sector that employs 20,000 people in the Basque Country between direct and indirect jobs. The "brown band", the "red band", as this fungus disease is known, has been more than a year since powerful symptoms of this disease began to be perceived. In Gipuzkoa it was detected in 2014, as we were told. And in the first analyses a year ago, 1,100 affected hectares were found in Bizkaia; at six months were already 16,000 affected hectares, of the 65,000 of the territory; therefore, this gives us an idea of the virulence and the so intense journey that this disease has had. This disease has been in the Basque Country since 1970, 72, 73. But it's the last year when the special conditions have been created. –abundant precipitation and more heat than usual – so that this disease will spread and acquire dimensions never seen. Some forest engineers call this situation an epidemic. The reality is that all of us, the Basques and those who visit us, are affected by the virulence of these fungi. Not only the sector; all the Basques and, as I told you, also those who come to visit us. And the visual effect is tremendous, it seems that our pines are crying and appealing to do something. I do not consider that the institutions have not done what they should; rather, that we have all been overwhelmed by the situation, from the sector to administrations, parliaments, experts, forest engineers... Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe told us that in 2014, EH Bildu, ruling in the Gipuzkoa Diputation, detected the disease. And what did they do? They passed the potato to the Basque Government. Hey, but aren't we in which Chamber you're competent? What did the congress do? Nothing, nothing, move on to the next link the paper. I therefore believe that this situation is the same because we have all passed the hot potato to someone and because, indeed, the virulence of this disease has surpassed and it is the forest engineers themselves who admit this situation. And I trust them. They are the technicians who know these situations and, of course, I trust them. I don't think it's time to criticize, Mr. Becerra. It's time to tie your shoulder and see what we can do. There are those who take advantage of any moment of weakness to whip up the forestry sector. This is a luxury that some are allowed when they do not know the agricultural sector or the forestry sector. That's why they allow it. Because, do you know what it took to get here? Do you know how the agricultural and forestry sectors have evolved? You can't take the whip out and give it "So, because yes, because I think of it and I think it's a weak enough sector to give it," right? Other sectors don't do that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of slogans, of banners, to exercise what you like so much, to ban. How you like to ban you, the ones on the left! Prohibiting all day. Let us exercise freedom and act responsibly, and that the science of knowledge can also be applied above your perceptions or your supposed knowledge. Prohibit and also add acid to the wound, just in case. See, the forest sector in the Basque Country, in addition to having 20,000 direct jobs –20,000 direct jobs, many navals together, many, many, eh? And you don't care about anything. But nothing – as I said, direct and indirect jobs, manages 50% of the territory of the Basque Autonomous Community, 50% of the area, and in addition to generating employment and economic benefits generates environmental benefits and social benefits. Because this sector is committed to the sustainable management of forest resources and contributes to fixing the population in rural territory. So, talk about the whole arc, because it's more than an economic activity, much more, and you should know it. It's pretty visible, pretty palpable, isn't it? It should be remembered that the mountain, wood in the 19th and previous century, was a resource that not only looked at the primary sector; they looked at the shipyards, looked at the industrial sector, they needed wood, wood, quantity of wood. This led to many hectares of land being deforested. And at the beginning of the 20th century there was someone, a technician of that time, who said we had to reforest, and we had to reforest with a faster growing wood. It was a new management model, a new model of the early 20th century. A new model according to necessity, they were not thinking about what was going to happen now, at the end of the 20th century or the beginning of the 21st century. And he brought the pine, and indeed, because they thought that the only resource for the shipyard and for the industry was going to be the wood, but then it changed and the pine stayed there. And now he's sick. Well, then, we're going to solve the disease, but we're not going to stigmatize either the variety – or the variety – or the sector. And that is what we are not going to consent to, to stigmatise the sector, which I believe we should not do. It is not a question of throwing down what for over 100 years has contributed to the economic development of the forest sector and also to the environment. And also to the development of the peoples of the Basque Country. This should make us work on how to strengthen and improve sustainable forest management of forests, how we transmit what forests, healthy and productive contribute to society to prevent them from leaving us. Make the forestry sector attractive to new generations. Research to achieve sustainable methods for treating wood diseases. And with this I want to insist that it is not worth alarming society and putting the cry in the sky because it is being studied – that a permit has been requested, because to rehearse it requires permission – that it is being alarmed that there are chemical components, that it is going to be fumigated, that Mr Becerra has already decided, that it is going to be fumigated, when no one has decided that it is going to be done. You're investigating yourself. Therefore, why alarm for free? Why? Look, over the last 30 years, on the basis of European directives, more than 80% of plant protection products have been removed. Copper is now in question, but it is authorized, Mr Becerra. You said it was banned in 2015. No, he's cleared until 2025, for now. It's not forbidden. Look, Mr Becerra, you demand or are standing in the miraculous pit to solve the problems, for the problems that affect Basque society in this case, and, Mr Becerra, neither you, nor Equo, nor We can, are no unique solution at all. They're not the only solution at all, I don't know if they've noticed. It seemed to me a forced intervention of arguments to oppose; forced, because you do know that there is a strategy. That didn't happen what? That he didn't go through anything...? You have given green light here to initiatives that had not been passed by the Council of the Government and you have given green light here. I mean, what are you talking about? It's worth one thing and the opposite, depending on which leg the initiative takes. Look, they're talking about a new policy, a model we have, a failed model, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, but I see your initiative and I see no sign of a new management model. I don't see a single sign, it doesn't make a single mention, it doesn't make a single line that points to a new management model. You announce it, but we don't know what you're talking about, which is worth everything. They're good for beet, they're good for this... No, let's see and put, put, write and about that we can value. Because, if I see his initiative, he says, "concern for the social and economic consequences of this disease." The one we all have, the same concern we all have. "Reviewing forest management models". We also ask, review the forest management models. "Coordinating solutions searches." Of course, then, in that we are, seeking solutions. That is a concern for any treatment that is done, the effects it can have on the population and on health. Of course, that is why we are asking to be investigated, but everything must be valued, indeed. And then, "immediate suspension of the request made by the Government of Spain to authorize fumigation." I just, no, I don't know if he's leaving... It has been requested, but I do not know whether or not it has been authorised; and, of course, to investigate they need authorisation. To investigate, they need authorization. Another thing is that based on expert work it is decided to smoke. I don't know, I'll wait to see what the outcome of the investigation is, and then we can have a say. Allow me to trust you, to want to know what scientific knowledge is and what they decide. Allow me to present a report on what has been assessed to see what solutions are being proposed. But in advance, denying any scientific evidence that might come seems to me to be unresponsible. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u126	President, ladies and gentlemen. I think there are some notes from this debate that are absolutely indisputable: the first, that the pine is suffering from a serious disease; the second, that that disease is spreading at a tremendous speed; and the third, that either intervenes or the damage that occurs will be greater every day that happens. I believe that from that perspective it is from where – some, at least – we focus on the need for treatment. Man, if I think that using cuprous oxide for the pine means that the other living beings will die, that the waters will be contaminated, that we will be poisoned, that nature will disappear, that the environment will be irreversibly damaged for the future, because, of course, I believe that what needs to be done is to intervene to seize the cuprous oxide. I believe that the proposal that we would have to make – and also unanimously – is to surround the copper oxide and that it does not appear anywhere. Therefore, if we talk about cuprous oxide, we will have to know if it is used, where it is used, who has used it, what tests have been made, what effects have occurred..., and it seems that things are not going there, but in any case I want to leave my responsibility out of any intervention against civilization and against the environment. That is, if those are the effects, we would be before an absolutely irresponsible Government, at technicians with an incalculable killer instinct and at a situation impossible to deal with. Anyway, I hope things don't go that way. As far as I know, this is a treatment that, used in the appropriate doses, has generated its effects, served, has not contaminated water, has not created collateral problems, and, therefore, I believe that this part is a scientific part, it is a technical part, that must enjoy all the guarantees, of course, of all that is possible, as in so many things of life. There are many things that we do not question every day and that, however, have no guarantees of success. He could talk about health or he could talk about many more things: that there are treatments and that there are interventions does not mean the guarantee of the solution of the disease or that one will live endlessly. So, well, there's no guarantee always in 100% treatments. The effects sometimes have to be analysed as they occur, but I think that we are faced with a proposal that has its meaning, that has its reason, that has its experience, that has its contrast and that is also raised in terms far below, but far below the levels authorized for the treatment with this type of product. I think we should focus there, because it is true that at the rate that the spread of this disease in the pine tree is advancing, it does not seem that there is too much time left. If in one year there is half the forest mass of Gipuzkoa infected, if there is between a quarter and a third of the vizcaine and has already started to have a certain notoriety Even though it is still far below those figures, I hope that Parliament's debates, expert debates and government debates will not mean such a delay in attention and a solution to the problem that the disease will ultimately be totally irreparable and that only the cutting of the entire forest mass will remain because it has spread definitively to all the pines. Well, I believe that the debate must be made with a certain weighting and that the proposal that is being put forward goes in that direction. The compromise amendment that we have agreed: obviously, when a forest mass is put at risk in such high proportions it seems that the future must also be reconsidered, that the medium and the long term must also be reconsidered, that we must see how far we can get with the new atmospheric phenomena, with the new situations of how climatology affects our forest mass; well, if this is the most reasonable, the most successful in the future or if we have to think about alternatives. It seems to me that this debate is also correct, that we have to do it, but I believe that the debate in the medium and long term, if it comes together with the immediate problem, seems to me to be a mistake, because the immediate one is moving at an extraordinary speed and, however, that of the medium and long term, obviously, as its name indicates, have other periods that the short one cannot wait for. I believe that the responsibility of the Basque Government, of the outlaws, who are competent in this area, of the experts, is to add together, to combine criteria and to seek the best solution. I think this is the one they've proposed. In any case, once it is considered that this is the intervention, we will still have to do tests and see what the result is, and I think that we are in the alarm against the pine problem, but I do not think that we are in alarmism about all the things that have been released here, I think quite lightly. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u127	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u128	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all the afternoons. These are two different initiatives, though they are at last one. In fact, they both answer the same problem, after an illness in the Euskata wood policy which is seriously prejudicial to the pines of our country. First of all, I'm sure that Congress is a special mission to control the Basque and his political activity. And this is the first division of the wood, according to the law of the Historical Lands. That doesn't mean we can't discuss here, but it would be more logical to discuss the grand councils. Well, for starters, since now there is no health counselor, as the blame is cast on him for almost everything, neither the disease of the "brown band" nor the "red band" is responsible for the health counselor, nor for the pathology that is crushing me and that has reduced my already scarce intellectual abilities. So I'll try to do what I can this afternoon. Indeed, what we are talking about today is that some parliamentary group seems to want to question all the forestry policy that has been taking place for many years in Euskadi, the thread of a pathology or two that seriously affect a particular forest species, the radiata pine, all from a repeated message to satiety: " The Basque mountain is a monoculture of radiata pine " - No, no, no, To observe the problem objectively, it may be worth contextualizing. In Euskadi, the wooded area is 55% – which is already – of which the leafy area is 53.5% and the coniferous area is 46.5%. In our mountains, 52% are plantations and 48% are natural forests. That is, according to the last forest inventory, 2016, we have a balance between conifers, leafy trees, crops and forests. Maybe someone doesn't like it and it's in their right, because opinions are volatile, but data is silly. On the basis of this global data, we can begin to discuss monoculture, with the majority species, the radiata pine, occupying 67 % of the area occupied by conifers, the wild pine, 10 % and the laric pine, for example, 8 %. It does not seem that one can speak strictly of monoculture, although I could trade for that of majority cultivation among the conifers, because in the total amount of the wooded surface of Euskadi, the insignis pine represents 30% – which is already – but from there to monoculture goes a world. Because, by the way, the beech occupies 50,000 hectares and no one has ever thought about the monoculture of the beech. There are natural beech and cultivated beech, there are two of them. Apart from all this, we should remember that more than 100 years ago the economic option planted a radiat pine on our mountains, in the few trees before then. That led to a change in our landscape, in our forest, and in our fieldnomy change. For the possession of the woods in many Eukadin hands is often irreverent, though it has ever been attempted to convince the contrary. He doesn't own a few typhoids. Latifundist, how? I'll just give you a few data. In Bizkaia, 41% of forest holdings are less than five hectares, and in Gipuzkoa, 28%. In fact, the radiata pine involved the salvation of many hamlets in Euskadi and, therefore, the possible maintenance of an agrarian surface that would have disappeared. In conclusion, Euskadi has a diverse mountain, where the leafy area exceeds the conifer, where the radiata pine is the majority species and where the property is as distributed as the stone. At the same time, this mix of forest we have allows us to enjoy protected areas, such as the Natura 2000 network in Euskadi, which has 101,000 hectares of trees, of which 21% with conifers and 79% are leafy, and at the same time we have that relevant protected area we have a forest area aimed at wood productivity. And, as has already been said, according to the White Paper on Euskadi wood, 13,000 direct jobs and 7,000 induced jobs are generated. I'm not going to give you any more data, because I understand that the photo has already been established. This result is not unlucky, although, of course, every forest owner is very free to plant whatever seems more opportune to him depending on his way of seeing things; and so, someone may prefer to have a forest near his house that attracts him by romantic, aesthetic or whatever, and that from it, in his case, his great-grandchildren may benefit, or that someone may prefer to bring him more quickly economic return and that his son, when he is older, may obtain the sale that his father planted when he was very young. It is plain, then, that from each Aldus they have money-friends who can procure them. There, the Administration can make a forest policy and even does it by disseminating subsidies according to the species to which it is to be planted. If you look at the aid decrees of the three Member States, you can see that apart from the –for your peace of mind – the eucalyptus is not subsidized, there is an aid differential of between 38 and 45 % depending on whether you want to plant or do different forestry work with pine or beech. In conclusion, we have a history of a forest landscape of more than 100 years, combined with a free decision by forest owners and a historical series of forest policy decisions taken by the parliaments, including a forest plan approved unanimously in this House in June 1994 which provided for a period of up to 2030. – that is, today this forest plan is still in force – it has brought us all that to the current situation, which – and based on objective data – is a balanced forest situation between producing and protecting forest, between indigenous mountain and forest crops, while producing economic wealth and wealth of environmental biodiversity. Only one exception: if you look carefully at the forest inventory, you will see that there is a name that is repeated a lot (the one of mixed Atlantic forest), that comes to occupy 35,000 hectares, and that name does not cease to be in much of that area a euphemism of what would be abandoned mountain turned into zarzal left to itself and that, in fact, it is an area with huge biodiversity – that is true – but that at the same time contains a very high potential risk of fire. And this is an area that needs to be addressed urgently. For whatever pathologically affects the pines is, it is the most alarming thing that the owners abandon the mountain, and the alduties work hard to turn this situation around. And now we go to the pathology that has provoked the anger of those who suggest that everything is due to the forest policy driven by the administrations. Look, it is true that there is an important crop of a species, which we have already said, the pine, and, therefore, if a pathology arises, the most normal thing is that it spreads faster than if there were only a few pines. I don't know, it's a drawer: if there hadn't been a lot of vineyard in Rioja, the phyloxera wouldn't have been relevant; if the beet hadn't been all together to make the harvest more efficient, we wouldn't have as much cercospora as we've had this year; if there hadn't been elms, none of them would have died from graffiti, which by the way ended up with almost everyone, without anyone blaming forest policy on the subject. Even, I will tell you more, a closer example: if the children did not go to the nursery, there would be much less lice and much less child flu, of course. It's a matter of concentration. If we have been on a pine surface for over a hundred years, even many years with a much larger area than the current one, and even having suffered other pathologies, because it is a forest crop, but cultivation, why now question forest policy on the basis of a pathology? Instead of getting lost in that debate, what we must do first is find solutions to the issue, without looking at our finger. And we understand that, once a joint diagnosis of the administrations has been designed, the strategy must be put into practice to begin the elimination or minimization of the pathology, because surely we will have to live with it all our life, while designing – a very important issue – an orderly withdrawal of the most affected masses, so that such withdrawal affects the market and the price of wood as little as possible. And with regard to the implementation of measures to eliminate the disease, we understand that copper is a system that in other places such as Chile or New Zealand has been shown to be effective. However, we understand that it is necessary to investigate and test large areas to verify their effectiveness here, while analyzing their possible environmental impact and on people's health. In this sense, of course, we must not forget – as has already been said – that it is a product used in organic farming in much greater concentration than is expected for pine. At the same time, and as a last step, the relevant administrations – the outlaws –, together with the sector, must work on the design of future policies in which, without abandoning the pine tree, they open up another range of forest species to continue building a Basque mountain in which conifers, leafy, long-cycle, medium- or short-cycle species, natural forests and plantations live together. In other words, forest economy, rural economy and biodiversity. Because we cannot give up that combination of protection and conservation of economics and biodiversity, and we do not think that if we look at the growing surface of the euphemistic Atlantic forest or abandoned forest, the most serious problem we are going to face in the near future is that we do not continue to plant trees on our mountains. And don't forget that, as a Japanese proverb says, "Thousand growing trees make less noise than a falling tree." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u129	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Ms. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u130	It's late, but I can't resist doing the replica. Mrs López de Ocariz, you've made a mistake on your own initiative. He hasn't read mine, because I don't speak at all on my own initiative or about smoking or anything. I am talking about four things: making a diagnosis among the agents, making a debate open to the future, which no one can deny, and with the conclusions of these two things making a planning. Because a planning that can be done in 1950 is very good, in 1990 and so many, but we are in 2019, almost in the 21st century. [[Berber]] We have to make a planning and implementation of the RDP... [[Berber]] Indeed, it is here that they are talking about years and we are talking about the year 1800. It's been a century. We're talking about the mountains. He has wrongly proposed; simply say it. And get Gipuzkoa's deputies out. It makes me a terrible grace, because they use it as a wild card for anything: " That you did it wrong, gentlemen, ladies of EH Bildu, huh? They were in the congress and they did it very badly. " - No, no, no, Well, I will give you a fact, Mrs López de Ocariz: that report was made on January 28, 2015. A meeting was requested here, in Gasteiz, in the Government, on 3 February 2015, and I believe that in 2015 we stopped ruling. It's been four years. I think it's time for everyone to take on their responsibilities. It makes me laugh a little bit, because for four years we've been looking like a century. That sure looks like a century. And the PP and the Basque Nationalist Party: we are here because we are concerned, Mr Prieto, but Mr Telleria, too. We're worried; otherwise, we wouldn't be here. And we're concerned to speak a little lightly, Mr. Telleria. The monoculture thing, excuse me, and I know you're sorry because it's all written down, but I didn't say it. You've justified yourself. I have only said massive cultivation of pines; here, the monoculture, let us each take our positions. Another thing is what we want to plant. He said: " You have to plant 1,000 trees, it's okay, they don't make noise. " - No, no, no, Actually, they don't make noise, but they can burn. Let's go look at Galicia, let's go look at Cantabria last week, see if when we cross to Cantabria we don't see eucalyptus. And this is not that someone has been free to plant what he wanted. Indeed, free decisions of the owners. Indeed, this is like saying to the primary sector "Yes, if you are free to sow whatever you want." No! No! They're not free because they're getting help. And if the aids are aimed at planting eucalyptus, they will plant more eucalyptus and we will meet Galicia, we will meet with abandoned pine trees, you said. Indeed, there are abandoned pine trees, there are mountains that are not being managed. That is why I mentioned earlier the differences between Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. Indeed, because they are managed here by communities, local entities, not individuals. They are different, management and vision are absolutely different. And we can't say that we have abandoned pine trees, that we have unmanaged piles. No, because the non-management, the non-use, will bring us consequences, and there is nothing but looking towards the cantabrian cornice. I'm finishing up. We're not just here because we're worried, we're here because we're willing to work. Mrs. López de Ocariz told me not to. I am willing to work, but to listen as well, and to propose and pose, but for that we need tables in common. That the powers are in the Chambers? Indeed, they are Members of Parliament, but here, the Government, do not throw balloons out. It also has its competence, which is to advise. Otherwise, there wouldn't be a table where the four parties meet. Otherwise, the government would be saying, "Let every deputy, even in my color, do as he pleases." That can't be the case. I think it's good, right? A forest policy – I don't care about the 19th century, the 20th century, the 21st century or the 21st century – suited to the times. And there are times when smoking can be bad, indeed. We can contaminate aquifers, we can also water the squirrels that walk through the pines. We can do all those things. I'm sorry, we're not going to meet at that. We're willing to work, yes, but we're not giving white paper for anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u131	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u132	It is complex to respond to things I have not said, but it seems that the same thing that has happened to Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, then, must be done. I have not spoken of monoculture at any time of my intervention, I have not spoken of stigmatizing species at any time of my intervention, I have not spoken of banning fumigations at any time. Air fumigations have been banned by the European Union, Mrs López de Ocariz, by means of a mandatory directive, transposed into state law in 2014: fumigation with airplanes is prohibited. Do you know who passed that ban through the arch of triumph? The Government of the People's Party, which has allowed fumigation throughout the Spanish State over the past few years. That is precisely why we have the European Union behind us. And if right now the fumigations with cuprous oxide do not yet have the permission of the ministry, it is precisely because the Socialists have met with that " pastel " when they arrived at the ministry, which is that the European Union is looking with magnifying glass to see what we are going to smoke and how. Because we've been thinking about fumigating with cuprous oxide. It used to be called broth burgundy. It was used by my father, my grandfather and my grandfather's grandfather, who were all farmers. Sheet-to-sheet was thrown on tomatoes, not on airplanes over 40,000 hectares. That is what the European Union is looking at with magnifying glass right now. I'm not the one who says it's going to be banned or it's not going to be banned. The European Union will say this, the Ministry will say this about the lawfulness in force. My initiative has been to hoist the shoulder, of course, but not just to hoist me to the shoulder of forest engineers. Why don't we talk about medical professionals? The Bilbao Academy of Medical Sciences has warned of the risks of fumigating with cuprous oxide. Why don't we talk about biology professionals? Biologists and biologists have warned of the risks that exist. Why are we just looking at the forest engineers' shoulders? I agree with Mr Prieto that what is needed is weighting in the debate. We need weighting, and only with weighting can we see that the pines do not die from the disease. They're reducing their performance. It is not even mandatory to cut the pines for the disease of the "red band" or the "brown band". Obviously, when we have sick pines – Mr Telleria has already said – we have to plan a replacement. But we are not talking about the catastrophe of the 21st century. We're talking about a serious, very serious problem, but we can't kill cannon flies. That's what I'm asking. You said, Mr Prieto, guarantees. These are what are being called for: reports from the Department of Health, the Department of the Environment, on the effectiveness of treatment. We're talking about a chronic problem. The disease of the "brown band" has been known for forty years, just like that of the processor. We've been fumigating the 30, 40-year-old processor with airplanes. What have we got? What have we got? Let's do that analysis. What have we got? Are we done with the processor? No, it's not over with the jailer. So, let's apply the weighting. We will apply weighting to analysis and planning. I repeat again. Here was a strategy for conifer forest conservation. Where is he? The government sold it in October 2018. It doesn't exist. Now, with the transactional it seems they want to plan. Well, welcome. Welcome. I wish it were for the benefit of the sector! Mrs López de Ocariz said that 20,000 jobs are generated. I wish! I wish! That's what Baskegur says. That's the sector's data. The Basque government in 2018 said that the direct employment was 5,600 people and the Basalde consultant in 2012 said that it was only 3,000, including those of the manufacturing industry. Today, forestry income is only 8% of agricultural income. The 8 %. I wish our primary sector could live off the pine trees it has planted! The problem is, they're not worth, they're not worth money. That's the drama. That is why I said that we have two problems: one, in the short term, diseases; two, that pine is not worth money, that wood is not worth money. That's the drama of the sector. And to reassure you, all you do is say, "Shut up, we smoke." Well, that's not the way out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u133	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u134	Mr. Becerra, diseases, normally, very few disappear. Very few. The flu is here permanently. We get vaccinated every year, and what he does is mutate, okay? Well, these diseases probably don't go away. They're sure they're here to stay. And what needs to be done is to treat them, and they're being investigated. And I support being investigated. And in the meantime, I don't stigmatize the variety or the sector. That's fundamental. Well, you've done the opposite here. Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe. Indeed, but your amendment is also taken up, your initiative is taken up. First point, he asks for a diagnosis; we ask for a diagnosis. To stimulate a debate; we also speak at all points of parliament, governments, sector... , to talk about this topic, how we take advantage of it, what forest use can be. Talk and a debate with the agents; a public debate asks you, and so do we. And what we are asking: you say that the Rural Development Plan contains measures; it has them and they can be expanded, indeed. There's your amendment. In his initiative there is no example of an alternative model, there is no one. I'm willing and we're all willing to talk about alternative models, but when you ask so intensely for alternative models, listen, throw some ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the amendment we have agreed with the Government is not to eradicate the disease, it is to seek alternative solutions. And the forestry sector is a powerful sector. You forget the owners; the owners are also part of the forest sector. Of course they're part of the forestry sector! They're not someone who's come here to destroy anything. They are owners, indeed. Family-to-family and generation-to-generation mountain hectares have been transmitted and they are managing the mountain. And it's an economic activity, whether you like it or not. I'm so sorry. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u135	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialist, Mr Pricee will not speak. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u136	Thank you. I almost wasn't going out, but you, Mr. Becerra, get me out of my lethargy. [[Barres]] Look how good it's started! The first intervention was very interesting and drew my attention. I say, "Man, it looks like Professor Becerra is starting to learn." And he talked about prudence, he talked about working it, and I say, "Look, that's what we want; we have to work with prudence because it's a delicate issue where there are many interests," and now he comes to me and tells me that the EU in a directive bans copper. Look, I've never seen her. If you teach me, I am willing to come here and say publicly that there is, but, of course, the ministry, when it is beating the government, the parliaments, it is not for the directive, it is for other reasons. The current ministry is not talking about the directive. So, well, I'd like to see it now, because I've consulted with the top government leaders and they may also not know that directive, and then it's a bit of a "ghosty" directive that's going to exist out there. In any case, in addition, the EU allows up to four kilos of copper per hectare, allows it. And the proposal of the parliaments is 800 grams per hectare; for you to know, it is simply to answer. But, of course, they criticise that we want to make a shared diagnosis. The two of them, in their amendments, were talking about the shared diagnosis, and we agreed on that. And allow me, Mrs Lopez, I'm not going to blow anything that's secret, but yesterday there was a moment when we absolutely agreed. I made you a little style correction, just so you could understand, because you had initially given up putting " other model " - No, no, no, Because what I am not willing to do is to talk about another model because yes, that is, what I want is for us to analyze which model we want: this, another or the one beyond, but, without further ado, to say " other " And give up this one because we understand it's inherently bad, I'm not willing. Because it's not intrinsically bad. I've tried to explain to them that it's not intrinsically bad. We can each have our opinion on this, it's true, it's subjective, but it's okay with me, it's not okay with you, Mr. Becerra seems fatal... But it turns out that we have come here today and there is a majority in Parliament who believes that this model is fine, but we are willing to analyse that model, not to propose another model directly. But, well, in any case it could have been, but I have the feeling that in the last second they re-entered the vertigo of sharing political ideas, in this case forest, very delicate in certain areas, with the PNV. But, well, I think that in time we will be able to arrive, because I think we are much closer than far in this matter. I believe, but it is a matter of working on it in time, and from there, regardless of prudence, we have to work on diagnosing what we want. But they have to know one thing: the matter is not of the Government, it is of the deputies, it is of the deputies, except the timber industry, which is a work that the Government does. The LTH is overwhelming. I'm from LTH all the way up, and that's where I'm not going to give in: it's from the deputies. Another thing is that the Government can very well carry out coordination work with difficulty so that the three parliaments can go together in this area, but it is a work of the parliaments. In fact, the request to be able to smoke in certain areas is not made by the Government, by the deputies to the Government, which the Government is the sole processor of the request. The request is made by the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Becerra. Go discuss this at the general meetings, which is where you can best be successful in discussing this matter. In any case, I have a few more things left in the tinker. This debate has been very good for me, because this fever has been taken away from me and I would be willing to follow another couple of issues today, because this has been good for me, but I just want to remind you that we have proposed planning, studying, both where we want to go and how we can attack the disease. And the disease is not only attacked with copper or broth Bordeaux, it is also attacked with new forestry works, because they are not done at this moment in trouble, and that makes the pines very close to each other and the disease is infected much faster, for example. And perhaps we need to work better to make forestry more aware of having to do forestry work. And, simply, as I see there are ways we can get there... in the next debate, I'm sure we've improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u137	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. "We will dispute and vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 71; the votes given, 72; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 43; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u138	So, the original text of the EH Collect Group is not accepted. After that, we'll vote with each other as the Podemos team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the supporters are 11. The opposites are 44; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 17.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u139	So we didn't agree with each other as the Podemos. And finally, we vote for the Euscal Populars, the Basque Socialists, and the middle-line correction signed by the Basque Abertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters 44; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-02-21.u140	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. I'll read you an institutional statement: "Resume freedom of expression. It's an institutional statement. "The Commission of Human Rights, and Equality of the Union, was part of a delegation to preserve the defenders of the Human Rights of Honduras in the following January, to follow the state of the persons assembled in the Basque Program. In this representative we had meetings with several social and institutional agents, and among them Berta was made with the family of Ceraceres. In this meeting, we were informed of the judicial state of human rights which had been accused of supposed intellectual authors in the case of the murder of Caceres. "Once the sentence has been made public, the Basque Parliament joins the concern expressed by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights about recent convictions restricting the right to freedom of expression. These convictions involve a human rights defender, also a member of the National Congress, convicted of the crime of slander constituting defamation to two years and eight months of imprisonment and an accessory penalty of special disqualification and civil prohibition, and a journalist sentenced to 10 years of non-changeable imprisonment for six defamation crimes constituting insults and slanders. "As I have said in the report of the mission of the Hondus to encourage and protect the rights of opinion and expression, so it may happen that an opinion which may be thought contrary to the dignity of a public authority may be thought contrary to the dignity of any one who declares it a criminal trial, which weakens opinion and freedom of speech." "That's why the Basque law requires courage to encourage the government of Honduras to make progress in the penal reform of slander and insult, and to find a suitable solution for the civil procedures which men can use in cases of digestion." I simply end the whole meeting. It was six o'clock in the afternoon.
