ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Please take your seats. And silence. Before we proceed to the theme list, we'll call our friend Carmen Solozano Sanchez. I can tell you that the ninth point on the theme list has been abandoned for another purpose. First point in theme list: "The Bill of Confederation of Confederation, Joseba Díez Anchus, and Carmen Solozano Sanchez law enforcement conditions. Discipline and final resolution. Do any members of the board want to vote for the judgment or against it? Some pharmaceutical team? So that's all we're going to vote for. The resolution of the union committee. Except the members of the legislative society which relate to the Constitution. We can all vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 67; the supporters are 67; the opponents are 0; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u1	So the judgment has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "A decree of the Presidency of the Public Office, Security, and Governorship, made on the bill of the fifth change of the law of the Euskal Autonomy Police to the Esquire Police. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board will speak for the judgment? So let's give the teams over. Basque Popular, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, lehendakari, counselors. Good morning, everyone...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u3	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u4	And above all, good morning to those who accompany us today from the rostrum and who are the protagonists of this law, because much of the effort for this law to be passed and some of the contributions have been theirs. Security is a fundamental right of all citizens, as reflected in our Constitution, and article 104 of the Constitution states that the Security Forces and Bodies have the task of protecting the free exercise of these rights and freedoms, in addition to guaranteeing citizen security. The State, therefore, is obliged to guarantee this right, so from our group we advocate for a police as a public service, a police close to it, close to it and adapted to the demands of the twenty-first century. In Euskadi, the text of article 17 of the Gernika Statute establishes the general functions assigned to Ertzaintza as an integral police force, as well as those reserved for the State Security Forces and Bodies. Under this article, the 1992 Act was adopted, the fifth amendment of which we are debating today and we are going to adopt. A law that implies advances in transparency, in the evaluation and stimulation of improvement, in the vertical and horizontal race, in the regulation of the modulated active service, in the second activity... A law that seeks to bring the legislation into line with current requirements. Because not only the Ertzaintza, our local police or the cadre of sheriffs, but also the Civil Guard and the National Police have to adapt to the new demands we have on the street, to the new challenges of crime that exist today, which are not equal to those of ten years ago, not even those of five years ago. There is therefore a need for a legislative framework that will give effect to this requirement of a police force for the twenty-first century, close to citizens, guaranteeing human and social rights, law enforcement, and a police force coordinated with the rest of the police force. That is the model of our police officers, the one that gives him legitimacy, the one that makes them be in a preferential place among the institutions in which the Basques trust. And this fifth amendment to the Police Act is an opportunity to strengthen and improve this model, and to improve the legal framework governing the various aspects of the Basque police; this amendment has been tried on two previous occasions and has not been possible. Let's see if the third one's won. Some were talking, with regard to the amendment of the whole model, that we are faced with an obsolete model of security and police restricted to the concept of citizen security and criminality. And some appealed that some of the appearances had said that. And it draws attention to the fact that for what they need, they appeal to the appearances of the audience and for other things, they do not appeal to them. For others, their petitions are simply corporate claims. Well, first of all, as I said before, we believe in our police model. We need to improve it, perfect it, update it, yes, but we believe in the model. What is different is the application made by the department of that model, the organization, how the model is implemented. As we said about the debate on the amendments as a whole, the organisation has a lot, a lot of scope for improvement, as we have shown many times in this House and we will continue to do. Because many of those who have appeared in this House have pointed out that the police organization imposed on the officers has brought with it the failure in the expansion of the staff of the Ertzaintza, in the planning of the staff, in the design of the investigation, in the reduction of crime rates, in the management of local police, etc., so it is necessary to rethink the organization. But that is not about the model, as I say, that is about how that model is applied. But if we take into account what has been made clear by those who have appeared in the Security Commission to give their opinion on that law, if we are to take into account its opinion at all, we should also take into account that the vast majority put on the table the need for the law to be passed, for the passage to the fifth amendment of the Police Act. From our group we asked directly to the appearances, if it was necessary for this law to see the light, and all, or the vast majority, said yes. And that is the spirit with which our group began negotiations from the very beginning, so that this fifth amendment to the Police Act could be adopted and that some of the issues that we raised through amendment could be incorporated. Because in those appearances we were shown a number of issues to be improved in this law, and those proposals have served this group to carry out many of the amendments tabled; although we are qualified by some as parliamentary representatives of the police unions. And in this respect I would like to make a point, because some groups are used to us bringing here, in this House, the demands of the workers of many companies, of the workers of the Administration, to echo their demands. Now, when those demands come from the local police, the Ertzaintza, the sheriffs, then what happens? These claims are disqualified and it is said that they only make a corporatist defense. Why? Because you see the cop and not the worker, and you see the cop because of that prejudice vision some people have about the police. Because if not, it does not explain why what is of justice for Osakidetza officials – the recognition of their professional career, who have recognized complements since 2012 – to our police officers, here, when they claim it, they are told that what they are claiming is prebendas. But I return to the appearances and approaches made in these appearances which, as I said, have served to make our amendments. The Act has accepted more than 75 % of our proposals, proposals to ensure more independence of the Committee on Control and Transparency, better regulation of occupational health and safety, reduction of penalties and limitation periods, elimination of a bridge course, better management of training, regulation of the employment relationship, reduction of posts to be chosen by the system of free designation, which will not exceed 7 % of the total and 6 % on the basic scale and inspection, jointly. Measures against inadmissibility –because from now on the interns will not be able to occupy posts –, incorporation of the possibility of exchange and improvements in the regulation of mobility, increase of the age of entry to 38 years and that the years worked in the Municipal Police for the entrance to the Ertzaintza are computed. We have also introduced amendments with regard to the cadre of sheriffs, in order to resolve the long-standing question of giving legality to their functions, giving them their status and their definition as a municipal agent. With regard to the use of the weapon by the municipal police, we have introduced the obligation to carry weapons, an obligation that is endorsed by the jurisprudence. The Administrative Litigation Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country points out that social reality shows us that citizen security is sometimes altered to such a degree that the use of force and, more precisely, firearms becomes indispensable, either to maintain it or to restore it. It makes no sense, in our view, for a local police officer and an ERTZAINA to be in the same place, exercising the same function of public order and being in unequal conditions, because one can carry a gun and the other cannot. As the same sentence to which I referred points out, the local police are qualified as an armed institute and must therefore be able to count on weapons. We have also introduced an obligation for the Administration to compensate agents for injuries sustained in the course of service when the culprits are insolvent. And we have given a solution for the ertzains who had approved the opposition, who were excluded on the grounds of age, but they claimed judicially and, by way of a precautionary measure, culminated the process in the academy, even some came to perform the practices but were expelled. Under a final provision introduced into this law, they will definitely become part of the Ertzaintza. And yes, we have introduced the regulation of the professional career of the Ertzaintza, because we believe it is of justice. It was signed in 2011, but the Government did not comply at the time and successive Governments have not done so either. And at this time it is included in a law, and it includes a question long demanded by all the agents, by all those officials who need to be on equal terms with other officials. And we have maintained two amendments relating to the Basque country. And why? Because we consider, first of all, that the agents of the Ertzaintza do not have the same chances of euskaldunization as the rest of the Basque officials, so the demands should not be the same. Secondly, because at present, when distributing the language profiles in each of the police stations, the socio-linguistic reality of the different areas of Euskadi is not taken into account. And it is not addressed, because at the moment the Basque agents occupy places in police stations of municipalities whose sociolinguistic reality is not predominantly Basquedun; while in the areas that are, in the majority Basquedun areas, the ones that achieve places are those agents that are not Basquedunized. And with this, what is done is that the right of citizens to be able to address the administration in Basque is not guaranteed. As long as they do not have the same opportunities as the rest of the staff to be able to euskaldunize, they cannot be required to do the same as the rest of the staff. Of course there have been claims that have not been achieved, but in any negotiation there are always issues on the agenda and issues on the agenda. But we are satisfied because we believe that we are facing a good law, a law long demanded, which has been possible after many agreements, after many conversations, after many emails Thanks to all those who made it possible, but above all, thanks to the local police unions, the Association of Sheriffs, the Ertzaintza unions. All of them, with their contributions, have contributed to improving this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u5	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u6	President, ladies and gentlemen. Today is an important day for Basque citizens, it is for their well-being, it is for their security, because the law that we will pass improves their objectives and their means so that in the future security is of higher quality. Today is also an important day for this Parliament, because it modernises and updates this public policy, this public service. Today is an important day for public servants of citizen security, because this law meets and leads to professional, labor, trade union demands claimed in recent years and will finally see the light. Today is an important day for politics, because it is signed, a new agreement is sealed between different, closing a long debate and moving to action. The law that occupies us has had a long time for reflection, for the participation of all parties that have considered it, for the negotiation and concretion of proposals to give it a body of law. The law that we will pass today meets all the challenges that we have set ourselves: it improves the security of people and their interests by increasing transparency and democratic guarantees; it improves the incorporation of women at all levels; it improves training, material resources, human resources, the economic resources of public servants, and citizens' security. This law has provided for an entire year to be studied, revised, participated and agreed; an intense year in attendances, meetings with collectives, unions, municipalities and between political groups in this Parliament; a year to contrast models and experiences; a year that has helped to illuminate the text that we will sanction today. In the processing of this law it has been possible to observe with absolute clarity that there have been and there are two very different attitudes. A political blockade, by Bildu and Podemos, adorned with different approaches, but coincident in the determination that it would not go forward, a blockade expressed in its amendments of all and in its refusal to negotiate any amendment, to the point of withdrawing those on which we had expressed and offered them a concrete agreement. Another attitude, that formed by the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, of commitment to our legislative tasks and obligations, to attend to the improvement of public services, to know how to add finding common places, giving in from all groups, seeking that political, ideological and programmatic pluralism would not be an obstacle to working in this Parliament, thus being useful to the citizens we represent. In Bildu's blocking attitude and Podemos two headlines can synthesize his position: Bildu maintains his animadversion to Ertzaintza; We can insinuate a new model, both idyllic and non-existent. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth amendment to the Police Act of the Basque Country goes a long way towards the concept of modern society, which has citizenship for the most part when it demands equal opportunities for men and women, ethics, control and transparency, sufficient means and effectiveness. The result of the new contributions to this law has taken into account the need to confront new forms of crime, to participate and collaborate in security, in a security that is global. The law endorses the European Code of Police Ethics, strengthens mechanisms for the evaluation and improvement of the police service, strengthens pay incentives, improves recognition, improves training and labour relations. The law advances trust between citizens and the police, providing more mechanisms to prevent and deal with complaints by the services, creating a monitoring and transparency commission. The system of internal promotion is improved, the professional career is better regulated, the system of specializations is regulated for tasks with specific knowledge, progress is made in basic social protection, in the surveillance of occupational health, in the prevention of occupational risks. The intervention of the Ertzaintza Council is clarified. Under the disciplinary regime, sanctions and guarantees for persons dispatched are better provided, regulation of the organizational structure of the judicial police function is modernized, coordination between different police officers is improved, the status of municipal agents in local police services and that of mobility agent is regulated. The above-mentioned aspects and many more are regulated and improved. Ladies and gentlemen, self-government is being strengthened today, it is being strengthened because it guarantees new decisions as far as the provisions of this law are concerned. It is reinforced because it materializes the capacity we have in Basque society to decide in a regulated way how we want to live together, with what public policies, with what public services. Today, self-government is strengthened, because when it is used in positive, when it is used, as is the case, to improve and progress, the model is prestigious and shows its great potential. Today's society is moving at great speed and in some things with imperceptible borders. Globalization helps to expand those things, including attacks on public security and crimes with modern instruments. We live with classic crimes, with crimes that are transformed and with new crimes. This reality requires and will require that the evolution of threats, the quality of safety and the tools necessary to ensure it should be reviewed in shorter periods of time. Ladies and gentlemen, this law also wants to be a recognition of the Basque police, their work and their surrender. This law becomes an expression of gratitude to the Basque Police, an expression of confidence in them and in them, a way of telling them that we regard them as good public servants and that we want their work to continue in the best conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, public freedoms and security are united in this law and that is why we wanted the assessment of the quality of security, the political and professional controls, the accountability to the citizenry to have a remarkable development. Thanks to those who have contributed so that today this law has a loose parliamentary majority and broad institutional, social and trade union support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u7	Thank you, Mr Price. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u8	Good morning, everyone. The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, the guests who are with us, the representative of the unions, the borderers, the police, the police. Today, with this kind of debate simulation, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party give a definitive solution to the dialogue and broad agreement that we owe ourselves as a society around security, a fundamental issue for coexistence and democracy. But it is that, moreover, today you intend to take forward, with the sole support of the People's Party and a roll in hand, a bad standard for the police, for the whole Basque society and that gives way to practices that may not be in line with the law. We already know that in the last few days, this Wednesday, the Supreme Court itself has just settled a dispute with clarity on a meridian basis and unanimously: the appointment of local police officers in the interim is not legally adjusted. In the face of this judgment, the most responsible reaction would have been to paralyse the processing, to request a legal report to guarantee that we are processing a law that is in accordance with the law, which is what Elkarrekin Podemos has proposed yesterday. But no. It seems that they will continue, in an act of irresponsibility and mismanagement that can have unforeseen consequences for all the municipalities of Euskadi and for the safety of all the citizens of Euskadi. This is by no means responsible for Basque citizenship and institutions. They are still in time today to withdraw this opinion and to be able to fix this mischief. Because this law can consolidate bad practices together from Podemos, repeating and repeating, which we have said to be bad for the police, and at least which are not the practices we want for our police. And in this particular subject, in this particular subject of Interinity, we already introduced two corrections to correct this tentitude a few months ago, because there is no other solution to this, and this text brings us no alternative. We made proposals and put them black on white before any sentence: the occupation of vacancies by interim staff is contrary to the Basic Staff Regulations. Interinity has grown. Currently between 20 and 30 per cent of local police officers in Euskadi are acting. The Supreme Court's ruling should be analysed and contrasted with this bill because it can pose a real challenge to the local police system in Euskadi, which has been largely based on this type of recruitment, on interim recruitment. And this decision directly impacts on the services and functions that are being performed by those in this interim regime. It can have direct consequences on all local Euskadi police forces. But not just that. It is that it directly affects the security of our municipalities, it is that you move the precariousness of work towards a new figure that you have invented: the police assistant. And the new text will not provide measures to provide stability to local police staff, nor will it provide solutions to municipalities to adapt the staff in times of increased demand, as may be the summer. Who will perform these functions now? Because your new figure is no good for it. Or worse, are they going to end up doing those police auxiliaries illegally, the same thing the interims were doing today? How are we going to ensure the safety of our municipalities, if today's templates run the risk of staying in half because their agents are out of the law? The text that you are going to adopt enables and is limited to regulating the figure of interinity, without offering alternatives so that the municipalities can correct a trend that we will agree is not desirable for a police model of quality. Or do we not even agree that this is not desirable for a quality police model? If they are going to move forward with a bill that is a step backwards and that, in addition, regulates practices that this sentence would question, ten years to process a fifth patch, and what will they do tomorrow after approval? Start writing the sixth one right away? A ditch has not been completed and will have to be reopened, due to lack of planning and lack of precision. The express transferment of this bill, the interest of parties and election, is neither responsible nor serious. In 1992, this police model was designed and planned for a Basque who had other challenges in the security area, and you, as I have said with a few conversations, are trying to solidize old practices in an express process, to push forward new practices that we don't know about the certainty of law, and also to retrograde in a series of changes and deep changes by entering this law. You have made a right-wing coup in the police model, you are going to pass today the law that the People's Party would like to pass on police matters. And together Podemos does not want to be part of such a law, because it is bad for the euscal society, because he does not run the challenges of the Basque Police at the present day, and because the instrument does not seem to challenge them, and this law will be carried forward with very little discussion. We are, therefore, very critical in the form of this law which can be admitted here today, and in the manner which has been transmitted, with the form of the tramitation and its fruit. Because we believe that we've taken this process with a lot of care around the law of police, that we've done serious work, committed work, engaged work to improve the text of the government, to do positive exports. We've been a parlamentary group that's done the most correct corrections, we've introduced 104 corrections and the corrections of those 104 is reflected on the idyllic and incoherent models Mr. Prineteton says. We have addressed in a solvent manner and without complex, diverse, central issues. And to carry out this work we have taken as reference the best practices of Euskadi, international recommendations in this field, recommendations of Ararteko, existing and contrasted police practices and models in large cities of Europe, in addition to holding meetings with all, with all trade union representatives of Ertzaintza and local police. The law must deal with the working conditions of the Basque police, indeed, no doubt, and we have also done so with our amendments, we have introduced this variable. But this law cannot be reduced to being an agreement with a part of the sector. This law deals with fundamental issues for society as a whole, introduces changes with which we do not agree and for which we have also made concrete proposals. Proposals to advance a close police model, properly trained, to address the current challenges, organized around a culture of human rights; oriented towards the prevention and protection of people and the common good; made up of women and men, on equal, bilingual and with adequate working conditions; transparent and supervised by the public authorities. In short, let it be a reflection of Basque society in 2019 and a reflection of the security challenges we face for the 21st century. And you have introduced measures that do not advance in this direction. And in more detail, they have invented a commission that they call control and transparency, a commission that depends on the Department of Security itself and whose members are going to be appointed to the finger by the department itself. Anyone can understand that there is neither autonomy nor independence for a commission of these characteristics. This is a simulation of control and transparency, which is contrary to the international standards recommended for control and transparency mechanisms. The Istanbul protocol or the repeated recommendations made by Ararteko himself, which is the body of which we have been endowed as a society for the operation in accordance with the law of the institutional framework, are permanently ignored and fall into a broken bag. Moreover, the text they have agreed will not end the inequality between women and men in access and professional development in the different bodies of the Basque Police. Talking about quotas provides headlines but there are no measures that address substantive and long-term issues. Quotas, although partly positive, alone are insufficient, this bill does not address the necessary transition to an organizational culture that promotes equality. You have rejected our proposals to end the pay gap in the Basque Police, you have refused to introduce measures to ensure that women do not continue to be the ones who claim 90% of the care surpluses. They have rejected proposals to end the distribution of tasks and hierarchies based on stereotypes and gender discrimination, instead of people's capacities, and will continue to take no steps to comply at least with our Equality Act 4/2005. You are not looking for real and effective equality, but for the makeup of a state which is anactorical, and is anarchical about the demands and proposals of our society, in the rights of women's equality. But this legal project doesn't correct them, nor does it correct our problems with the local police, we can see that there's a problem about interinity, but also because they don't give stability to our local cops. But also... ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u9	Go to the end, Mr Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u10	Yeah. But even in the nearest police model to go forward, he ceases to give him the treatment they deserve, their fundamental role. This law also does not include the role of the judicial police and continues to leave the Basque Government the decision whether or not to assign personnel to this task. The Act contains a professional career which is discriminatory in relation to other bodies of the Basque Government and which is also subject to budgetary availability. Let us make it clear, for everyone to understand, it means that every year the government in office will decide whether or not to invest in order for this to be done. It is a misconception from the point of view of security and stability to which any worker is entitled. In conclusion, this draft law introduces a couple of paragraphs on the use of weapons, which we believe to be extremely serious that has been done without any strategic vision, nor of a country project, nor of a debate on the security model, the police model, nor of the society to which we aspire. Do you think it's a decision made with high eyes and political heights?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u11	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u12	Or does it correspond to the emergencies and conjunctures of three political parties? That's why we're repeating ourselves. Elkarrekin We can today vote against this opinion and we do not want to be part of or to whitewash a text that has been prepared behind closed doors, with a utilitarian vision, which represents a setback and the consolidation of a police and society model that we do not share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u13	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Something has obviously changed today and it's obvious that the unions of the border unions in front of this parliament has ended in protest. They're in here today. I want to welcome them. And I wonder why this protest ended. It is evident that by this law the pattern is not changed. In this protest they cried out in front of the parliament: "Esperfania enchufa, discrinina y esclavavelia," and, obviously, it doesn't change in this law. So, what's the difference between this law and the end of protest? Well, I think a new treatment is ending this artificial conflict. In a way, they've raised wages to the edge, which makes it a little easier for this law. The star of this law is not a committee for control and transparency, nor is it that women will be treated with equality from now on, but it is not a process of arms for police officers. The star size, the only measure, is to give back reactions to professional careers. Since I came to this Parliament the Ertzaintza trade unions had no claim other than professional career and wanted to understand that it was the system of articulating the structure in another way, of progressing in the internal structure of the Ertzaintza in an orderly manner, without plugging, without clientelism, but I understood that behind this claim there was also money. And now it is confirmed that it is indeed a corporate demand and today I do not know whether we are in the adoption of a law or a collective agreement. A text that, in fact, Mrs Llanos, collects money, collects money, money, and sounds to me prebenda. Because we are not talking about the reform of the Civil Service Act for all civil servants, but this law is resolving a specific corporate situation of one group of civil servants vis-à-vis others. A career that, more concerned than responding to what, how or why, has responded to how much. And how much, we do not know, because it does not carry an economic memory beyond the calculation that a means of communication or a written question that we have recorded to know what this means, what budgetary implications it will have. This law speaks of money without accompanying an economic memory. Something that seems unusual to me. Our position was known to me, I won't repeat it. In the discussion of general correction, we defended the police that the model of the police should be adapted to the present security needs; that it was necessary to adapt the rate of crime to objective conditions; to prevent which means they needed, that we should talk about it. But all this is left aside, and, as I say, a false discussion takes place, covering the matter with the money, bringing here a productive product which will bring chaos. We had the opportunity to have made a law that since 2019 was projected into the future, but it was preferred to leave the Basque Police in the parameters of 1992, with a bit of cosmetics, little, with some patching and with money, with a lot of money for a new pay supplement that I think is the only real measure that is going to be approved today with this law. A law of articles bis, ter, quater, of unfortunate legislative technique, with errors, with inconsistencies according to the statement of reasons, the articulation, the final provisions, with different forecasts in the translation in Basque or in that of Castilian... But, in fact, with a majority, with roller, PNV, PSE and PP. The only good news is that it will be the last reform of the 1992 Act, because I believe that this text cannot bear any more patches, more layers of removal, more makeup. What is clear is that this reform does not meet the general interest of having a modern regulation, a lasting regulation over time, a technically rigorous regulation of the Basque police. It responds to the urgency of some to take a law forward, a law that was stuck in a more than unproductive legislative calendar; and it responds to the interest of the PP to take forward the corporate interests of the unions, establishing itself as a defender to the extreme of the Ertzaintza, of this Ertzaintza. And it has been historically, Mrs Llanos, the PNV and the PSOE and the Department of Security as well, whom you have claimed to be union liaisons of the Ertzaintza, but today I believe they institute you as such. And I would like to congratulate you, Mrs Llanos, because I believe that you have played your cards well and that you have managed to escort the text of this law to your interests and to the model that the People's Party defends. It has not been discussed in a paper, it has not been discussed in a committee. I almost believe that, in technical terms, it is the only discussion that is going to open, that of today, and that is going to close. And today all I have left is to support the most obvious errors and the most plausible dysfunctions and irregularities because this law is going to bring problems, it's going to bring queue. With regard to career I have explained what it means, but it will also apply on the basis of highly subjective requirements. I don't know how to evaluate professional conduct, achievement of results, involvement and commitment to the organization. How is it evaluated, with what barredness? Subjective criteria that support the submission and servileness of the agents to the heads of the department and the chiefs who are going to apply these scales and who are going to carry out this evaluation. The only objective criteria are the years in the body, i.e. the complement of antiquity is doubled by not mentioning any other surprising requirement such as that provided for in article 73d, which rewards the hourly fulfillment and attendance at work, hourly fulfillment and attendance at work, as a prize. True, they raise the salary to the Ertzaintza but do not regulate how it will apply to the Udaltzaingoa. The professional career for the local police is not regulated, transferring the conflict to the staff and municipalities. And I wonder, is this a law of police or is it a law for Ertzaintza? Because it's clear to me. Now the negotiations of the professional career supplement of the local police where are they going? In town halls? Do you pass the brown to Eudel? Will he appear in Udalhitz? Will a convention have to be fought against? With what budget will the municipalities make in front of these complements? They put the city halls, whatever color they are, in a brete. The police concentrations we had here in front of Parliament are now being transferred to each and every consistory that has local police. The same thing happens with the mice, with a figure with an expiration date. According to the latest reaction, they are Agents of C1, but as appears in the law, "there is no necessity for changing the whole annual fees of the officials." In this case, they rise up in the category, and are more interested in the police, but they remain the same wages as before, and if they wish to raise it: Fight in your councils. That's the one that's tried here today, and they sentence you to fight. "EH Collection Disposition, together with you, to choose and to repair that fight." And the issue that broke out in the media yesterday, acting municipal police. Chaos. Are they missing or not? Depends where we read it. According to the wording of article 25: "the members of the police of the Basque Country must have the status of career official", according to the Spanish version; because according to the Basque version: "funccionario publikoak izan behar dute". It's not the same, it's not the same. Interims are civil servants but without a place, they are not career civil servants. What do we stick to, the Euskera 25 or the Castilian 25? But it is that 95 articles later, in 120 specifically, will approve today that when a city council needs to fill jobs urgently and temporarily in the local police, it will be able to appoint interim ones. And we have all read the ruling of the Supreme Court, in cassation, which sets out doctrine, which was promoted by a union which I also believe was intended to be satisfied with this law, and which dictates, "the appointment of local police officers in the interim is not in accordance with the law." So, what are we left with? In what way do we interpret the 25th, in Basque or Spanish; in what the 120th tells us, that interims can be appointed; or in what the Supreme Court tells us in cassation, that interims cannot be created? Was that the prediction that Mr. Erkoreka was telling us he wouldn't catch them by surprise? Because it's a contradiction that you're going to give legal rank to today. Arkaute and OPE unified. Arkaute is strengthened as a selection body, which involves disposing in practice the municipalities of their autonomy to choose the workers with the most suitable profile for the service of Udaltzaingoa according to the circumstances, needs, identity and idiosyncrasy of the people. And we have been denouncing, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, the boycott that Arkaute is practicing to the OPEs of the municipalities, blocking the selective processes, not sending the representatives that by law were to send to the courts, and now this imposition is reinforced. I don't understand why a municipality in Santurtzi better serves in Oñati. I don't understand why an Orduña candidate will have a place in Irun. I don't understand it, if it's not because Arkaute keeps producing municipalities with the same troquel as the Ertzaintza even if the badge they put on it is different. I was talking about the arms process of the Township. Mrs. Llanos proposes that there is a sentence, but nothing will change because there is to be a rule for this, which has not dared to make a division of it, or the Commission of the Councilmen in seven years, and now I think he will not dare to do it. Aipatu nahi nuen zertarako balio duen kontrol eta gardentasunerako batzorde bat; a control and transparency commission composed of police to attend, to control police. But since I don't have time, I'll end up saying that you bring the law with the most clumsy, terrible technique. Errors, contradictions, one thing in eucalyptus, one thing in a rhyme, one thing in an explanation of reason, one thing in articulate, one thing in the final regulations... It's the author's responsibility. That's how you wanted to work this law. This law has been made without haste and without dispute, and will cause trouble. This law will not be for long, and that is the good of it; another law of police, the coherent, the whole, is nearer to doing, and when it is opened there is no doubt about it, the example will be great in this dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u15	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. It has been 27 years since Juan Mari Atutxa presented to this House the first Basque Police Act, a key piece in the institutionalization of Euskadi because it consolidated one of the emblematic institutions of our capacity for self-government. He guessed it was going to be the law that Mr. Atucha would last. It is now proposed to reform the Law to adapt it to the new times. There have been four other previous amendments, four in particular. And today we are going to approve the fifth amendment of the Basque Police Act, after two frustrated attempts in the past legislatures, and a decade of debates and negotiations. And we can say that this is undoubtedly the most important of the changes made so far. Important for its extension, as well as for the depth of change. Because it's important and appropriate and necessary to have bordering and municipal authorities in a series of reference laws up to date. It is timely because it comes at the time of the generational relief of Ertzaintza and local police. And it is necessary to lay the legal foundations of the future Basque Police. To this end, the reform that is submitted today to the approval of this House focuses on three axes: the transparency and accountability of police activity, the regulation of police personnel in the Basque Country, and the provision of tools to municipalities to improve the management of municipal police services. With regard to the first axis, the mechanisms of control and transparency of police activity, the content of the European Code of Police Ethics is incorporated into our positive law, mechanisms are established for the treatment of complaints and the reception of thanks and suggestions for the citizens, and the commission of control and transparency of the police of the Basque Country is created. It is an independent body external to the police institution, Mr Martínez and Mr Arzuaga, composed of multidisciplinary experts and whose appointment, Mr Martínez – like the dossier also had it out of date on this occasion – its appointment is carried out not on the proposal of the Department of Security, but of the Basque Public Security Council. These changes have been the result of parliamentary proceedings. The second axis is the reform of the regulation of the status of the police personnel of the Basque Country, Ertzaintza and local police, which concerns Mr Arzuaga so much, because this is a law that affects the legal regime of these personnel, as in Nafarroa. In view of the evolution of professional profiles and the need for continuous training, the maximum age for admission to 38 years is increased, the required academic training is raised, and staff are required to participate regularly in retraining and continuing training activities. Legal coverage is given to positive discrimination measures for women, to promote and promote the presence of women to a minimum of 33 per cent. This measure itself may be insufficient, as Mr Martínez said, but it is more than zero and is also part of a planned package of measures incorporating the law to ensure equal opportunities between men and women. The administrative career of Basque police officers is also regulated, favouring promotion by internal promotion. Mobility between police forces in the Basque Country is facilitated, and exchange between local police officers is regulated. It limits the coverage of posts by the system of free designation, defining the criteria and procedures for the evaluation of such calls, and regulates, for the first time, horizontal career mechanisms, with a progressive implementation in the next four years, which is a consensual regulation during the parliamentary process that takes as reference the pre-agreed seven years ago with the trade union representation, which then suffered from sufficient legal coverage and now becomes having it. With regard to the rights and duties of the staff of the Basque Police, various measures are envisaged, such as the disappearance of the duty of residence, and compensation is provided for the damage suffered during the performance of the service if the person responsible for them is declared insolvent. A separate mention deserves the measures for the protection of health and the prevention of occupational risks, of which we spoke last week. Legal coverage is given to the age-modulated active service, already existing in the Ertzaintza, which will also apply to local police. The second activity is also regulated by psychophysical insufficiency. In a new chapter, the prevention of occupational risks is regulated in a precise way, following the guidelines established by the legislation in force in this area and which some groups claimed last week. The last axis of reform is to improve the services of the police. In order to do this, he regulates such subjects as the following. The provision of certain services with weapons, as in Navarra's legislation, is envisaged, even I believe that with less demands and rigour. It does not refer to all, but only to security police on public roads and to security and custody. And in these, the mayor, with the report of the local police chief, can decide to lend themselves without weapons if there is no serious rational risk to the life and physical integrity of the civil servants or third persons. And this reference is opportune – Mr Martínez could also have called for the suspension of this procedure for this issue – because there is a ruling of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country of 5 June 2019, which annuls the decision of a Basque mayor not to give his police firearms. As it did not coincide with his approach, it was also a reason to request his cessation. The law provides for various ways in which municipalities can meet temporary staffing needs: one of them is the possibility of cooperation agreements between municipalities, so that local police can act temporarily in the territorial area of the municipality concerned; another is the appointment of police assistants to carry out, temporarily, covering the needs of eventual or seasonal, in municipalities with local police forces, certain functions of cooperation with the local police. And the law, in advance of the Supreme Court's ruling, is committed to the full stability of the local police staff and, to this end, enables job-building processes that allow for the coverage of vacancies. Mr. Arzuaga was doing a partial reading. Of course, article 25 recognizes – and that was the objective – that they are career officials. But you have read part of article 120 – you have to read it all – and you have not read the tenth transitional provision, entitled Selective Employment Consolidation Processes in Local Police Bodies. This issue is not from yesterday, which came out in the press, but has been on the table since at least 2016 and has also been the subject of the appearances and amendments to the parliamentary debate. And hence the law collects measures to allow the municipalities to face the consequences that such doctrine could have. Therefore, instead of paralyzing, we believe that it is a reason to pass the law with more interest, so that the municipalities do not face a situation of insecurity and neither do the officials concerned. The figure of the mobility agent in municipalities of large population is also regulated to regulate urban traffic as collaborators of the local police. And finally, the figure of the sheriffs is clarified and dignified, and, to all intents and purposes, it is equated with that of the basic police officers of the local police, both in terms of functions and training. All of them and many more. I wanted to be exhaustive in the relationship, although I have said it quickly and I have removed many, because, as you see, it is not a single measure, it is many measures. And there are many more, many more, which are measures that have been claimed and raised in the appearances and meetings held over the past few months. Active listening, dialogue and above all will of agreement, Mr Martínez. This is therefore an important change and a demonstration that progress can be made in this country through agreement and dialogue. And we want to thank all these contributions to the people who made them in the People's Group's appearances and predisposition to dialogue and agreement, which is essential to bring this and other projects forward. Mr Martinez said that we are going to take him out with the People's Party, the same People's Party that you tried to convince to return the project to. The report of the presentation incorporates the amendments tabled by the two groups supporting the Government and most of those advocated by the People's Group. In particular, of the 57 submissions, 18 were accepted and another 25 had sex. The Popular team has reserved two corrections to defend the meeting, both of us on the language abnormalization of the police service, and we will vote against it, because we want the edge to be an eloquent police officer, who will perform the conditions to provide his service, respecting the public's rights language. And these corrections, they want absolutely the opposite. The opinion adopted in committee on 12 June is the result of the work, debate and agreement between parliamentary groups which have been able to dialogue constructively, with common sense and with pragmatism; and as a result there have been numerous contributions and modifications made during this stage of parliamentary procedure. They were talking about express processing. Do you know what day the government passed this bill? On 26 June 2018. Do you know what day it is? A year and a day later; it seems like a sentence, but, no, it's a day a year later. And the debate on the amendments to the whole and the consideration of the partial amendments tabled confirmed, by Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu, an absolute lack of agreement on which to reach agreements. Elkarrekin Podemos raised the abstract argument of human security, which seemed to have been invented before yesterday, in order to object head-on to the handling of the bill, even, as he said, seeking the support of the People's Group for the return of the bill. He then tabled many amendments, indeed 104. But it is not a question of quantity, they could have presented 1,000; but of quality and above all of will, of wanting to bring something in positive. The case is that many of these amendments, similar to those of the People's Group, have been taken up by the presentation in their literality, or with small formal touches, but Elkarrekin Podemos has rejected them. In an exercise of coherence it has also rejected those that were to be accepted and that could sincerely have improved the law. And it has also rejected our compromise proposal on 20 of its amendments, where its proposals were substantially accepted in matters that are then so relevant, such as equality of women and men, or integration with citizenship. Dialogue with will to agree. And, in fact, it has drawn our attention to the fact that it has not reserved any amendments of so many that it has tabled for this plenary, which is where they are definitively approved or rejected. Anyway, that's worth looking at. I'm done, Madam President. A reference to EH Bildu. We fear that presenting an amendment of the whole with a request for the return of the project is not the best way to position ourselves to negotiate; when someone wants to agree, it shows willingness to the agreement and has not been their case. Mr. Arzuaga was teaching us lessons of coherence and congruence, and well, as there are elements of comparison... He says that he does not like the Committee on Control and Transparency, nor do I think that he has seen the latest wording because they prefer, he said, a mechanism for the prevention of torture – they said in committee, he did not say today – which, by the way, they did not establish where they had the possibility to do so – in Navarre – and which are functions that are already held by a person responsible, the Ombudsman, who has a different and broader scope of action than the police officer. The important reform of the personnel regime does not please them, although it has, as I said, many points in common with the Navarra Police Act, which they promoted and supported last year. There is no fear of pushing the outlaw police, nor the regulation of the weapons of the local police, as I said. Moreover, the candidate has to present a writing where he undertakes to carry weapons and only in the case, is sensu contrary Here the law is inconceivable, while in Navarre they welcome a law that establishes a gateway for the access of the Civil Guard and the National Police to the police foral. Here you see with suspicion the progress in the rights of the workers of the police forces, who despise them by relegating them to corporatist interest in exchange for money. Finally, it is very difficult to extend consensus with approaches intended from the beginning and until the end, until this morning, to hinder the processing and adoption of the law. I think today is an important day, as Mr Prieto said. We are going to pass a very important law which, as Mr Atutxa said, we hope will be very effective and will serve the future of the Basque Police and to regulate the more than 10,000 people who make up the staff of that Basque Police, and do so with dignity and with recognition of all those present here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u17	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u18	Thank you, good morning to you all again. I will also begin by thanking the groups that support the Government, with whom we have spoken in order to be able to agree on this law. And while it is true that there have been many conversations and meetings, and at the end very loose and loose, I believe that the will to agree was in the three groups and therefore it has been possible to draw the law. Simply, with regard to the two amendments that we maintain, we also agree with a bilingual police, the police themselves agree with a bilingual police. The question is that at the moment the conditions, precisely, for achieving this bilingualism, for euskaldunizing, are not the same as in the rest of the public officials of Euskadi. Therefore, until these conditions are the same, we believe that the same demands cannot be put to them. With regard to Elkarrekin Podemos, the truth is that what luck you've had with the sentence, because if the Supreme Court doesn't get that sentence out, I don't know what you would have said here today, because you've run out of speech. He has run out of speech because he has only talked about the sentence and, secondly, because he has withdrawn all his amendments, with which he will be in accordance with the law. When you withdraw the amendments and do not keep them it is because you agree with the law. Talk about roller. Look, as I say to you, just as you or you have spoken with all the unions, with all those affected, we too, and what is done is incorporate. But how can you talk about roller if when we have tried to agree some amendments with you and fuck you, you have withdrawn them so that there is no possibility of compromise? You have a questionable film roller concept. And it has even withdrawn issues that were going to be dealt with, precisely, in relation to quotas, as you said, to the incorporation of more women into Ertzaintza, which is, in fact, not a question of quotas, it is a question of making Ertzaintza attractive to women, and at the moment I think it is not. And that goes far beyond the establishment of quotas but not even those of you have wanted to maintain. Already in the amendment of the whole you spoke, as has been said here, of a security that you intended to put in the law, as if it were the compilation, the Code of Eurics, everything related to security, so that you did not really come to agree what was on the table. With regard to Bildu, what I don't know is why if other workers make demands it's okay for them to make them, and yet when the cops do, they are criminalized for it – I don't understand it – and they are corporatists. With regard to the protests, the same is true of the fact that you follow them only when there are riots, but until May you were making protests in the police stations. For example, in May they were at the Durango police station and continue to protest, not just for their purpose as you said. And with regard to their amendments, they all respond to that model they have, which responds to a thought, to an obsession that we not only do not share, but we totally reject. You see a police always under suspicion, a police that tortures – that's why you introduce the anti-torture mechanism – a police that restricts citizens' rights. You have a congenital mistrust, a structural animosity towards the Ertzaintza and the Basque Police and an animosity exclusively for doing your job. A police officer who has seen how 36 officers were killed, who have had to change their homes, go to other provinces, leave the Basque Country, who have had to take self-protection measures every day, who could not reveal the profession to which they were engaged despite being super proud of it because if they could not be beaten. They have seen how their vehicles have been burned, how they have burned police vehicles with them inside, how they were chasing them, their families, how they have been insulted by calling them cypaeans. They have lived all this without those who come here today to talk about police models having condemned not one of those fascist and mafia attacks. They want a police without weapons, but they continue to endorse with their complicit silence that there were those who carried weapons or bombs to attack those police officers or all those who wanted to defend freedom, democracy and plurality. You tell me that I am a defender of Ertzaintza, yes, and this Ertzaintza, this local police and the sheriffs' corps. And very proud to be a defender of Ertzaintza, because from our group, precisely for the work they do, for the defense of the rights and freedoms of all Basque citizens and of public order and security, we have absolute confidence in them. Because, as I said here when the amendments were discussed in their entirety, there is no safety in the abstract. Security is given every day by men and women on the street so that you and I can exercise our rights and freedoms. We are therefore very pleased that we have been able to contribute through the adoption of this law to enable them to better and more effectively develop their work. Therefore, I conclude my speech with the recognition of all the State Security Forces and Corpses but, especially here today, our Basque Police, our sheriffs' corps, our local Police, the Ertzaintza. Thanks to them we have been able to devote ourselves to being the voice of many Basques and many Basques in this House and in other institutions. Therefore, they have our eternal recognition and our eternal gratitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u19	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u20	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Arzuaga, you have used, and very badly, you have chosen very badly the refuge you wanted to enter to oppose this law. It has given us here a long intervention of legal technique, of translation technique, even to finish it has been allowed the luxury to accuse the unions of corporatists and to leave aside the security to import them exclusively their wage interests. A whole misconception and a whole misconception knowing your trajectory, a trajectory that in this House has been meant by the following things: the first, by that animating – which Mrs Llanos has also reminded you – towards Ertzaintza, because it has never yielded to consider heroes to criminals, terrorists, and because in defense of freedom it has persecuted the terrorism that you have never condemned and, indeed, this has already caused a sentence and a permanent animating on the police. Many have been his episodes in this House saying that the police have many troops, that they are left behind; they have even come to say some more barbarities than, if in this society there are few doctors or few nurses or few teachers it is because there are many policemen. You have repeatedly pursued all police actions, put them under suspicion, and Mrs Llanos has also reminded you. It has never had a prestigious attitude towards a public service, such as that of security, and this is what defines its approach of political opposition to this law. And, moreover, in the recent proceedings, we have come to think that the future of the police is, more or less, their municipalization. That is, it has to be a rather entertainment police, rather than a security police and an action police, or an integral police. Well, have the courage to defend your ideas with the blunt and forceful expressions you've been doing on other occasions and not taking refuge in the translation technique, the legal technique or the supposed corporateism of the unions. With regard to Mr Martínez, Mrs Llanos has also told you that the Supreme Court's ruling to intervene here today was a good thing. But what harm has it come to you to know how to interpret politics because, in truth, you have given me the impression that you were floating over the Supreme Court's own judgment. Look, in case you don't know it yet, I tell you, you belong to the political power, you belong to the legislative power. The Supreme Court, which belongs to the judiciary, does what it does is to enforce the laws of the legislatures. Therefore, have no doubt that this law, which is to be passed today, if it is not going to serve the Supreme Court for having settled the judgment that was published yesterday, will do, in case you so wish, the Constitutional Court to know that it is a law that will have to be considered for any remedy that may arise. Finally, I am very surprised by this approach. You who were born to challenge the laws, you who were born to question the whole system, it turns out that you are now taking refuge in a sentence to make a political speech and to try to mask that security project that you claim to have that, as I told you in my previous speech, it is so idyllic that it is non-existent and nobody knows where it has been put into practice. That is why I would ask them to be braver and bolder with politics and also to hide less behind sentences that, to date still, despite having read it, have not been able to interpret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u21	Thank you, Mr Price. Together the representative of Podemus, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u22	Okay. I know that some of the parliamentarians who support the Government, as well as in the debate on the amendment as a whole, are more engaged in discrediting us, neither in our work, nor in our interventions, than in articulating solvent arguments and responding with concrete solutions. I am not going to get into that much because I see a lack of interest, or even inability, in responding with a number of political arguments to political proposals. I'm going to make a couple of notes. I'm going to do it to Mr. Zorrilla so that he can learn a little better about how the pre-conference was, because I think you're a little wrong, and if not, ask Mrs. Nerea Llanos, or just like Nerea Llanos, I don't know what movie you told him. And, on the other hand, I would say to Mrs Llanos and Mr Txarli Prieto that we must be more attentive when others intervene, because it seems that you have not heard two thirds of the speech I have made. But since I see that you have not heard it, I repeat it to you, do not worry, and I tell you what are those issues that we have dealt with and that we do not understand that they are not present in a law like this. So, I will start with the Committee on Control and Transparency, starting first by mentioning a number of issues that I believe directly affect this. I quote: "The most frequent problems continue to be the delay in providing the information, the lack of response to the specific issues that Ararteko is interested in and the recommendations it makes, and not to submit the documentation it requests." This is what is stated in Ararteko's last annual report on the Department of Safety and Security. I would like you to explain to us why you have difficulty working properly with the control body representing all Basque citizens. However, the report also points out that a more than significant number of recommendations were still not established in 2011. Eight years have passed and non-compliances continue to be detected, etc. They want a control organ, they already had one. We propose that all this structure be under the Ararteko and what we do is to propose a monitoring body which, in fact, rules the Public Security Council with a government majority. So, anyway, we stay the same. As far as equality is concerned. You want us to believe that quotas will solve inequality in the Basque Police. 40 years ago we could believe it, but ask Emakunde and he will tell you that that is impossible, that we all know that quotas themselves do not generate equality. We must be braver and face more complex problems. Elkarrekin We can propose concrete measures to advance women's access and career, to eliminate horizontal and vertical segregation motivated by prejudices and gender stereotypes, to transform a macho professional culture, to end the gender pay gap, to implement co-responsibility measures, to implement affirmative action measures, to take measures to ensure an institution free of direct or indirect discrimination, free of macho violence and free of sexist harassment and sexual harassment. They have rejected all the amendments that propose this. All of them. And of the only nine amendments that decided to accept unilaterally, one of them, which was the one with a minimum content, was to accept a small change in language. That's what we've been offered. That's what we've been offered. And if you want one day, Mr. Zorrilla, I bring to the public the transaction proposal that you have made to us, and you tell me how many fundamental issues of the law are dealt with in that transaction proposal, which is quite embarrassing. But above all, you have rejected amendments to improve the training of the Ertzaintza, you have rejected amendments to move forward in a nearby police force; in a preventive and non-reactive police force; in a police force that bets on dialogue to resolve conflicts; in a police force that protects the common good, environmental rights, which acts by incorporating a gender perspective, which protects people and their rights – such as the right to strike or the right to housing – because we are still dragging a reactive police model. And here I could start talking about a series of interventions that I think have been negative, but, as time runs out, we're going to leave it for another time. I'm going to finish very clearly. We will continue to work for a nearby Basque police force for a society of the twenty-first century. And what has been shown here today, especially with the minutes you have devoted to me, is that it bothers you. It bothers them that alternative models of security are proposed, because they think it is their heritage and, above all, because they think it is the heritage of the right-wing forces. And that has changed, that has ended, because as long as we are in this Parliament we are going to bring forward alternative proposals in the area of police, alternative proposals in the area of security, which propose models of human rights and freedoms. We will bet on a transparent police that always acts within the framework of legality and human rights, which prioritizes the prevention, protection of individuals and the prosecution of crimes that violate the common good, freedoms, social justice, equality, environmental and life sustainability. A Basque police made up of women and men on equal terms, with decent working conditions, with adequate training, resources and tools, to always act with guarantees for the agents themselves and, of course, for the citizens as a whole. That is, a police officer at the service of Basque citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u23	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. EH Collector, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u24	President, ladies and gentlemen. If I tell you that Mr Prieto has not read the law, he does not know the reform proposal that they bring us, he has not looked at the agreement that the PNV, PSOE, PP brought us, believe him? He comes out here, to this atrium, after the problems I've put before his eyes, squandering arrogance, making a speech as superficial as empty, as frivolous, and reproaches me for talking to him about legislative technique when we're talking about a law. What did he want? Coming here to offer the three empty headlines that you have offered, to hide your ignorance of the consequences and the effects that this law is going to have, on the problems, the practical implications that this piece of legislation is going to bring? You heard him, "Arzuaga doesn't like cops." I've got a lot of cheerleading to the police. I don't have animosity, I don't like this police model. I do not like the police model that is based on this legislative reform. And if I am glad that there has been no debate, it is that it frees me from any responsibility for the pernicious effects this law is going to bring. And it frees me from having a headline debate with whom you think you know something and ignores everything. Mrs Llanos, one point: a mechanism for the prevention of torture. I have not invented it, it is a recommendation made by the United Nations and Spain has it. You mean the Spanish police torture? Indeed, today we can say that the PP – and I have recognized it before – it has a very important influence on the bill that is being passed today. He did it. I think he has moved his letters well, used them well, and managed to unbalance the balance of the police model of the Ertzaintza towards his model. And he's taken the law to his field, and I think he's won, and today the Basque police are escalating towards the security model proposed by the PP. And this model of Ertzaintza will accommodate the demands that the PP has brought. And, Mr. Zorrill, I'm not going into Nafarro's references. I think it's a dirty game. Navarre is more delicate and more important than using cheap accusations like that. But yes, I'd like to tell you something about the police armor process. The 2012 Security Act took them off to determine the power of the councils, which the police were to use, and which was to be made by a rule, which was to be done by the board, or by the Commission of the Condinations of the townships. Why hasn't this rule been made in seven years? Now, because PNV did not wish, because he had no will, will, will, courage, and courage, in what operas it is necessary to make a rule, and not what weapon, what use, and what assurance, it is with the presuputist. And now you want to pass that brown one to the city halls, to the mayors. And you say: "conforme" is the same thing as "local." Are you sure? For in the Euscatian translation it does not appear requisito. And around the interim municipal authorities, they knew, by order of 30 April of the Fourth Chamber, that the Supreme Court would rule on 11 June, and they were intuiting the decision, and if they did not intuit it they could have waited, because on 28 March they bring us the text "in roller", which has been called. They had time not to take them by surprise, as Erkoreka said. They envisaged such an eventuality and took action. Which one? Is article 120, which contradicts this sentence, which clashs head-on with what this sentence is saying? And they tell us that now there will be 276 new udaltzaines And now it seems that with these 276 new udaltzaines And the question is not how to replace these 611 eventuals, but what will be done with these workers, what will be done with these 611 professionals, because for them you have not taken into account any integration process, any transition, any kind of bridge to turn them into police officers of full right or to make them auxiliary. And the question I'm asking is, what are you going to do with these 611 now? Degrade them, precarious them, out on the street with them? Amaituko had to be a teenager nago Podemoekin. I believe that you would now have to ask for a recess, you should postpone this vote, postpone the consideration of this law, which is a law, or if you do not approve it and stick to the consequences, because it will give us a lot to talk about. I was clear what could not have been solved by this law, that is to say, the model thing, but now I see what new problems will arise in this law. I am convinced: The best option is to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u25	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mrs Llanos, on the subject of euskera, we are the Basque Nationalist Party, and what you propose is that the subject of euskera serves only as a criterion of tie, which would imply that knowledge of euskera would be worth less than knowledge of other non-official languages, and that for us is unacceptable. And fortunately, in the generational relief that is taking place in the Ertzaintza people who are presenting themselves are aware of the importance and the need, knowledge and use of our language. Mr Martinez, yes, I did not tell you in the first speech, but you have all been told, I think. You were very pleased with the smokescreen of the ruling that came out in the media yesterday, because once the amendments were withdrawn, what was there or what was there to prepare for this plenary. Once no amendment was tabled, what was we going to talk about? The human security model? I think it's been very good for you. He was talking to us again about the express processing. That you tell us something about the express procedure, when I have already told you that the procedure has been one year and a day, and that it is full after full control it calls on the lehendakari on compliance with the legislative timetable, because there is also a certain question. Moreover, in a full of those controls, on 31 May, you told the lehendakari "that the government is starting to negotiate seriously and with the aim of reaching agreements in open laws." That's what we've done and that's what you can't say you've done with this law. He said that it was a question of responding with concrete solutions, for that was what made law, even for interim officials. He spoke of the need to be more attentive – I also say that we need to be more attentive – because it was again affecting the committee on control and transparency, citing the last Ararteko report. It is precisely the proposals made by Ararteko in the parliamentary committee that have been taken up on this matter by the committee on control and transparency. Man, let him say that it is not on the proposal of the Department of Security, as he said in his first speech, but that it is on the proposal of the Basque Public Security Council, with a government majority, that has his own. Do you know who form the Basque Public Security Council? All institutional levels of the Autonomous Community, i.e. the Basque Government, capital cities and municipalities. Perhaps it is that Basque society, in this case, has wanted the same party to lead those institutions. You, who are so democrats, I don't think you question that representativeness. But Ararteko is also part of it, also representatives of the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Basque Council of Lawyers, etc., etc. I don't think these are government members. He was talking about equality measures, which we have all rejected, except for a small change in language between nine o'clock. Well, if it's one, it's one. I say to you again that you, with maximalist positions, no proposal, no proposal, no proposal, no proposal, is equal to nothing. One proposal plus one proposal plus one is equal to three. And I repeat, in the law, apart from that measure, there is a set of measures to try. What else can there be? 20 compromise proposals were made to him and none were accepted. None. None. And truncated themes. Man, they're truncated themes. We have not dealt with the trunk issues here because that has already dealt with them in the return amendment. As for EH Bildu, Mr. Arzuaga comes here as a legislative technician, he tells us about cod... Well, for a prior nuance: it was not on March 28 when the groups "rodillo" – as you call them – presented the project to you in commission; in fact, the full refund was on April 11th, April 11th. He missed the month, it was May 28th. It is clear that the public security service is not one of its political priorities, acknowledge it. For us, it is, too, along with social protection, education, health care, employment, and public security is a priority. And they've proved it. They don't have to say it. They have shown this year by year in their partial amendments to the budgets. As I was telling you the other day, the movement shows itself walking and you've been walking quite a bit. His problem, and I think that Mr Iturrate told him in full return, is that, although the Ertzaintza is of all and all – let it be clear – he does not like the Ertzaintza, he does not want it. He said he doesn't like this police model. And, as I say, they have demonstrated for years with words, with facts, and with silences and absences – leaving aside past times not far from those I don't want to mention – in words, questioning the number of troops, questioning police devices with intent to discredit. The other day, this very week, in an appearance, you recognized that, having little data and little information, you described the police device as disproportionate and inappropriate. With facts, trying to paralyze the OPEs, budget cuts – literally in a commission I told him that "the Ertzaintza nor water" was what they proposed – even salary cuts. It's been said here. You are the defenders of the workers. It'll be from other workers. What's going on? That those who are part of the Ertzaintza are different workers? The academy – that academy that produces urticaria – proposed to reduce it by 40%, when we believe that the academy is fundamental in the formation and preparation of a new police model and new agents. And finally, the silences and absences. Last June 2 there was a tribute to 15 ERTZAINAS killed by ETA in Arkaute, with a part of the Hemen Gaude museum, where we were representatives of all political groups, except his. Very significant absence for all those present. He says he doesn't like the model, but in the face of his negative model, we want a formed police force, prepared, modern and adequately equipped, assuming the commitment to the security of people and personal and collective property. I'm finishing up, Madam President. We don't know what your model is, if it's the unarmed Scottish model – currently questioned – if it's the armed naval model, if it's the model of the local police... What I can't accept is that I say that the debate has been cut short. The debate in this Parliament has never been curtailed. Since 1992, when the Basque Police Act was passed, you – I have bothered to look for it – have requested 13 full monographs, none on the police model. Of course, it's not something they're worried about. Now yes, the last, recently, on prison policy, a competition that is not yet transferred. There's your interest. Nor has there been any proposal for a law on this matter. And I want to end in positive, reiterating congratulations to the people who make up the Ertzaintza and the local police. I believe that the adoption of this law is reason to congratulate us all. And congratulations also to the Counsellor, for the magnificent professionals she is surrounded by. I think it is also worth recognizing, because everything is not going to be critical, and I think it is surrounded by magnificent professionals who have made it possible, at any time of day and night, for parliamentary groups, for social actors to carry out and carry out this law. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u27	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that the discussion's over, we'll vote. The first vote will be the corrections reserved by the popular Basque Groups, the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 8; contraries, 64; white; 1; Abstension, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u28	So the corrections are not accepted. Next they vote together EH Collectations reserved corrections made on the articles of judgment. But we'll take three out of here, 164, 188, 225, we'll vote for them first and then the rest. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 17. The contrary, 44; white; 1; Abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u29	So they didn't accept it. After that, we'll vote for the rest of the rights reserved by the EH team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 28; the contrary, 44; the whites, 1. Abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u30	So they didn't accept it. The articles of correction are to be voted at once. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 44; the contrary, 28; white; 1; Abstation, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u31	So it's accepted. We'll vote for articles that haven't been corrected in judgment at the same time. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 44; the contrary, 28; white; 1; Abstation, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u32	They're approved. It will be voted together by the EH Collect corrections reserved by the teams, he said, by the explanation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 28; the contrary, 44; the whites, 1. Abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u33	So they didn't accept it. The explanation will be given. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 44; the contrary, 28; white; 1; Abstation, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u34	So, I'll take care of it. And finally, the name of the law will be voted. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 44; the contrary, 28; white; 1; Abstation, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u35	So the name of the law is accepted. And the law of the fifth change of the law of the Euskal Autonomy Police on the Esunomical Police is simply approved. Third point in theme list: "The Bill and Preservation of the Preservative Committee, 2019-2022 Euscal Statist on the bill of law on the planet. Discipline and final resolution. "Mingorn has the word. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u36	Eskerrik asko, president anderea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u37	Just a little silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u38	Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Today, I stand before this Chamber to present the law-presidentism of the new statistical plan. After you've filled his spaceal career, it's the last discussion and vote today. As you know, the purpose of this law is to organize and organize and organize the role and activity of Euskal Autonomy in Erlaboria. That's why our Autonomy member is in full control. I will not delay to account for the importance of this subject for you, so we have the eighth plan of the statistics of 1986 since the law. I will only tell you that I think that official statistics, that is, that which provides information under strictly professional considerations and which generates a coherent and effective statistical system, is an indispensable element in shaping the information system of democratic societies. To have basic, reliable, proper and obviously economic and social statistical information is essential and essential from an institutional point of view for the planning of rational public policies and for the purpose of political transparency that every government must promote. In this line, the Basque Statistical Plan 2019-2022 that I present to you today contains the statistics to be carried out during this period of validity, must be approved by law, and is implemented and developed through the annual statistical programmes that are approved, as provided for in article 7 of Law 4/1986 of 23 April, by decree of the Basque Government. None of this is likely to be alien to them. Nor have the guidelines that have been used in the previous plans for their development changed much. But, more specifically, this plan – and in this it differs from the previous ones – has been done with the gaze placed on the coverage of the following purposes. First, generate statistical information to design and evaluate public strategic plans. Secondly, improve the coordination of the Basque statistical organization to reduce the burden on informants by using administrative data as a source to produce statistics, to ensure the quality of statistics by ensuring compliance with the Code of Good Practice of European Statistics and also to adapt products and services to the needs of users. The Basque Government and this Parliament have been aware of the need for statistical information from our Community and have consistently promoted the creation of a basic statistical structure from a long time ago, adopting laws and budgets for its impetus. This is demonstrated by each of the seven statistical plans approved to date, in addition to the Statistics Act, setting up a statistical organization where the functions of planning and standardization reside in the Basque Statistical Erakundea-Institute of Statistics, Eustat; and those of production, as well as in Eustat, are distributed among the specific statistical bodies of the government departments, the parliaments and the municipalities, with the Basque Statistical Commission and the Basque Statistical Council as consultative bodies. The draft law that we are presenting today also aims to adapt the activity of the Basque statistical organization to the new needs of statistical information; and also to adapt the existing Statistical Law to the new requirements of the European Data Protection Regulation for individuals and to the use of administrative data as a source of statistical information to reduce the burden on informants. This eighth law of the Basque Statistical Plan contains all the statistics to be drawn up until 31 December 2022. It sets out what information will be provided, how the statistics will be carried out and who will be responsible for preparing them. In this way, both producers of statistics and users of statistics will be able to know what the production will be and, therefore, the availability of the statistical information of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi until 2022. The Basque Statistical Plan 2019-2022 is the result of the reflection of the various social actors gathered at the Basque Statistical Council: Basque Government, outlaws, Basque Parliament, general councils, municipalities, universities, business associations, trade unions, chambers of commerce and consumer associations. And it is up to the Basque Government to transfer to this Parliament, for approval, the information needs that have been raised by the various Basque social actors. In the case of structure, the law structure has four articles and four last regulations, and an attachment. In this appendix, we receive a list of the operations of the Euscal Statist organization in the power of the plan. The first final provision amends four articles of the Statistics Act in order to adapt it to the new European data protection legislation for individuals, to the principles of the Code of Good Practice of European Statistics in the use of administrative information as a source of statistical operations and to information and communication technologies. For each statistical operation, the following characteristics are detailed in the annex: general objectives, responsible bodies, participating bodies, thematic area, situation, frequency of dissemination and type of operation. Overall, the Basque Statistical Plan Bill 2019-2022 provides for 229 statistical operations, eight fewer than in the previous Plan 2014-2017, and this balance is determined by 23 highs compared to the previous plan and 31 lows. Quantitatively, Eustat is responsible for 124 statistical transactions, 54,1 % of the total transactions, although it accounts for 73,2 % of the total cost. And the operations corresponding to the different departments have the following distribution: Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing, 21 operations; Economic Development and Infrastructure, 21 operations; Culture and Linguistic Policy, 15; Employment and Social Policy, 12; Health, 12 operations also; Public Governance and Self-Government, 9; Finance and Economy, 4 operations, as well as Security, also 4 operations; as well as Labour and Justice, 4 operations, and Tourism, Trade and Consumption, 3 operations. On the other hand, the statistical operations contained in the Basque Statistical Plan 2019-2022 are grouped into 22 thematic areas. The highest cost is that of "Statistical Infrastructure" which brings together a total of 14 operations, accounting for 13.38 % of the total cost. "Demographics and social habits" comprises a total of 30 operations, absorbing 13.03 % of the total cost. Thirdly, "Economic accounts" with 26 operations and a cost of 10.72 % of the total cost. On the other hand, if we analyse the characteristics of the operations and statistics included in this plan, we can also differentiate them by the frequency of dissemination of results, whether five-yearly –23 operations –, biennial –22 operations –, annual –93 operations – or with a diffusion less than a year –24 operations –, in addition to 27 other statistical operations that are the subject of continuous dissemination. For the planned forms of dissemination, being the forms of majority dissemination through the Internet server and through the database. Also for the type of statistical operation, either censuses (of which there are 60 operations), sampling surveys (55 operations), or followed by synthesis operations (which are 46 operations). Having made this short presentation, I would like to mention the agreement obtained in the transfer of this law-government, because only 14 corrections have been introduced, and most of them have been accepted or semi-directed. Besides, the consent of discussion and judgment has been made in a single session of the committee. I would therefore like to conclude by thanking the members of the Committee on Finance and Budgets and, in general, all the members of this House for their willingness and support in making possible the adoption of this Act and, ultimately, the approval of the planning of our statistical activity over the next four years. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u39	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Taldeen txandara pastuko gara. Euskal Talde Popularraren ordezkariak ez du hitzik hartuko. Euskal Sozialistak, Andean Castle, explanation of vote explanation of vote Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u40	President, chief officers, members of the legislature, all of you. Our team will participate in the fact that we will not vote against this bill. We'll get rich and take advantage of this moment to make three quick reflection. The first question must be to congratulate and to thank Mr. Aguirre, the member of the legislature, in order to discuss this project in the whole process. In most cases the majority of the Government is less favorable, less positive in the pursuit of harmony, and in the making of a better law. That's what the corrections we've been describing have been, so you understand and we appreciate it. We have not come to an agreement in every subject, but your attitude is grateful. My second point is to congratulate us on the fact that one of our amendments has been taken into account and we believe that this is an important amendment. It is an amendment that affects the implementation, implementation of both the VII Plan for the Equality of Women and Men, and the issue of the gender perspective and the implementation of the Law for the Equality of Women and Men. It is a question of the gender perspective not only being taken into account in the design of statistics, but also in the exploitation and analysis of data. We need good statistics to be able to design good policies that help to improve, to seek equality, equality between women and men. And we therefore welcome the fact that this particular amendment was accepted by the Government, as it could not otherwise be, because it was based on an Emakunde recommendation. And here I do think it is important to bear in mind that Emakunde cannot be considered, in the processing of laws, as a Florentine entity. Because we have more laws on the table, and the law of cooperatives will come where the legislator – and I have to say, in masculine terms – has not made any case to Emakunde's recommendations during the preparation of the preliminary draft law. In this case, the mistake has been corrected and we welcome it. And my third reflection will be to defend the amendment that our group has brought to plenary today. Article 10 of Act No. 4/1986 on Statistics of the Basque Country provides for persons obliged to provide statistical information, who shall be all persons who have residence, domicile or are located in the territory of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. This article 10 has been amended in this bill by an additional first provision, which maintains that wording, but introduces a fourth point which, in our view, perhaps because of an unfortunate reaction – and I am not going to get involved if it is deliberately or not – can suggest that the information, the information files that have to be provided to the Basque Institute of Statistics will all be, wherever they are, found wherever they are and whatever administration they possess. And that, in some ways, can introduce a factor of instability, a factor of discord between the different administrations that have responsibilities in statistical matters. Because, while it is true that our autonomous community, through paragraph 37 of Article 10 of the Statute of Autonomy, has exclusive competence in the matter of statistics that are relevant to it for its purposes, it is also true that the National Institute of Statistics has the same competence for the whole territory that is not the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And, therefore, it would have been interesting, from our point of view, to go to what the Code of Good Practice in Statistics marks at European level, which says that "coordination and cooperation between different administrations must be enhanced, so that those people who are managed who have to provide the information do not have to do double or triple work". But also – and that is where we were basing our amendment – because there is a 2015 law that talks about the legal regime of the public sector, which establishes, in article 141 (d), the obligation of all administrations to provide the necessary cooperation to the other administrations so that they can meet their objectives in terms of their competences. And it wouldn't have been too much to put in this premise, to put in this consideration to avoid future problems. That is why we have brought to the full this consideration, this amendment, because it is important to us, interesting, that the actions of the administrations – and I am finishing, Madam President – in statistical matters, be to cooperate and not to make war on their side. And I'm going to bring just two examples in this case. Euskadi's gross domestic product, today, at the end of 2018, is €76.6 billion if we look at the statistics of the Eustat and €74 billion if we look at the statistics of the INE. There is more than 3.5% difference in GDP. GDP, ladies and gentlemen, is used to calculate the Basque quota. And I wonder, what is Euskadi's real GDP today, whether the one that calculates the Eustat or the one that calculates the INE. And the same could be said of the gross domestic product in industrial matters, which Eustat calculates by 21,6 % and INE by 18,8 %. So, it is not a balamé amendment that we bring here today to this plenary, and it is not a minor question that the administered, the administered, the consultants, the companies, the economic sector of this country have statistics that are drawn up with the cooperation of the different institutions, the different administrations, and not that each one does the war on his own, because he has exclusive competence, as the Statute says. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u41	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of EH Collector, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u42	Yes, thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all of you. The duties of the citizen, but even in this institution which ought to regulate rights and liberties, seem often to be in the institution of prohibitions and obstacles. There is a large series of debecues which cannot remain in the commission rooms directly, nor remain in a adjoining room, nor receive applause from principles in the assembly hall, or those from outside can give more than 20 minutes to explain. And the rule is necessary, because we do not say anything contrary, because we need rules for a proper function in all the parts of life. But the rule of the legislative generally imposes boundaries and difficulties, and always in a particular direction. But since everything can't be held in a rule, the President has the last word, as well as the President of the legislature. And the procedure of this bill of laws, the Statistical procedure of the Plane, was at the board of the Ogal and Previouss, and the President of the Locals decided to do all the occurrences of these groups in one particular day, on the 27th of February 2019. And if he could not come on that day, he offered a chance to send his contributions by writing, although those who had to make the scene asked him to change the day, because they were not necessarily allowed to come to other occupations. And yet this party was denied the execution of the proposed occurrences. And we do not make this accusation because this party demanded it, we are not so simple, but because we have lost the chance of making very important contributions between those who measure it Eupstate as well as for society, which is not acceptable to us by the obstinacy of a person or president. We asked for three releases. We didn't ask for 30 releases. And as the chairman of the series has said, if it matters to us that the statistical plan and this bill of laws are important, it often passes as if it were a third-rate law. But we think it's important to have statistics data here, to have information here, as the chief physician said, in order to evaluate the strategic plans, and to design even more efficient public policies. And that's why we filed three release requests. On the one hand, about the use of the euphoria, we contacted the Socilinguistics with the Cluster to ask for their performance. At first it seemed good to them, but then they decided to renounce their permanent organ, because they are still working, and have no work to do with this technical law, which is so exact a contribution. As a genus, Marta Luxan, a professor of the Basque Country University, was to come too, but on that day on which the President of the Committee had introduced a protocol against the machista of violence, and therefore, as may be understood, he couldn't come. And it was important that he should explain in our opinion to the parliamentary group, for from the genus view, for, for example, if it is important to include the sexual variable in figures, it does not guarantee that, as Mr. Becerra said, he is putting into tabular figures the species of genera. And so it is not enough to promote the equality of women and men, and that is what we mean by the other. In addition to inserting sexual variables, the purpose would be to include changes necessary in the question generation to build genre indicators. In fact, M. M. M.M. has started all this innovation, and it would be advisable even to receive the necessity of these innovations in the law, and will not be received in this law which is to be accepted today. And as the Representative of Podemos has said, it has been asserted by his repentance, that, besides making changes in the design of statistical sources, he will now observe the exploitation of statistics through his repentance. I mean, from now on, the law should ensure that the results of statistical results will be studied from the genus view and will be reported in reports of possible differences. And we'll also have to see if that's done, because, as you have shown, the preceptive reports of the results have not been ignored and have not been introduced into it. So we'll have to wait and see if they're finally picked up. These are mere examples, but we have lost four more years to insert them into the statistical plan, to be effective indications from the genus view, and to advance on beautiful equalitys in this country. And we also asked for a third instance, this about Biobertsity, because the Statistical Plan does not measure the biodyberts of our country, and this person, who has been in IHOBE's projects for many years in the Aldunia of Gipu, had a trial that day, and had a court as a witness, but the President said he wouldn't change it and I have its e-mails. And so neither could he come here and make this important quantum contribution. And why Biodiversity? For, as I say, Eupstate does not measure it, and I will not here much enlarge its importance in regard to biodybert. I'm going to end the process, Mrs. President, when they're locked up in the institutional anacronism, which is unfortunately responsible for its consequences-one of which, instead of the intervention of foreign agents and scholars, is an obstacle to the legislature. And for us, our team, for EH Collect, that's unacceptable. It was denied us, in some measure, that we participated in this bill of laws, and therefore, in the coherent manner, we have not yet taken part in the subsequent transferation. And today this new Plan Statisticos is approved, but we've made it clear that since EH Collect was planning to bring the statistics here, the statistics would be a better plan for the four years that come in for the Basque Society and we've lost that opportunity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u43	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. This time, we've got 2019 to 2022 Euscals, the Systemist, to study the Plan Act. "I will not repeat the arguments of the Chief of Chief Peter under you, but some of them, and I will not prolong myself much in this discourse. The principal aim of this law is to regulate the organization of the statistical performance of our Membership. And how it has already been said that the last of the seven of the plan-plagues of the Combats, between 2014-2018, was developed by the chimpanzee statistics, and each time they determined what statistics would be made, who would make them, and what technical conditions they would be. Since the issue of this last plan is over, the Basque Parliament must approve of a new plan. Official statistics are indispensable. It's usually known the state or reality of society, that we all know, and the statistical is also a useful tool for analysis of the evolution of society. The official statistics have a few challenges and I'd like to mention three others. One is to measure economic and social activities with the same model as the societies around us. The other is to develop and continue all the economic, social, public politics, and to know and follow the results. Third, a challenge of information required. Nay, statistical results are essential, because they affect the decisions taken by the public and private sector. In the Basque Statist Organization, as the chief physician has said, all Esscal economic and social operators participate in this: Eucstat, the government department, the forum and the town halls. In addition, this Parliament, the boards, chambers of commerce, employers, trade unions, universities operating in the Basque Autonomous Community and consumer and professional associations are also represented in the Basque Statistical Council. In April 1986, this House passed the first Basque Law on Statistics, which was a pioneer at the state level, and from this law derive the plans, such as the one we have to pass today in this House, with the rank of law. The Basque Statistical Council approved the preliminary draft law almost a year and a half ago, in February 2018, and the Committee on Finance and Budgets did the same with the opinion 15 days ago. Elkarrekin We have decided to reserve an amendment for this plenary, which we will vote against for two reasons. As Mr Becerra has already said, Article 10.37 of the Statute of Gernika provides that the Autonomous Community of Euskadi has exclusive competence in statistics. But, on the other hand, there is a state law, which is the Civil Service Act, which obliges administrations to collaborate, and therefore, the concern that you had, first, never happened, the two administrations have always collaborated, and we see no danger that this will not happen. Many of the amendments have been introduced on the board and 80% of the amendments which Podemos has introduced together, and also the amendments which we have introduced with the Socialist Party. So before we finish, thank Mr. Becerra and Mr. Ruiz de Arboulo for their bearings and contributions. And I'm glad that this law will be accepted now, in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u45	Thank you, Mr Aguire. No replication. Now that the discussion's over, we'll go to the vote. There will be a vote between the Podemos and the first of the final regulations. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 11. The opposites are 44; the whites, 16; the abstainations 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u46	So it's not accepted. We shall pronounce the first of the last decrees of the judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 44; the contrary, 11; the white, 16; the abstainations 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u47	So it's accepted. We'll vote for articles that haven't been corrected in judgment at the same time. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters 44; the contrary, 0; white, 16; the abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u48	So they're accepted. The explanation and the name of the law will be voted at the same time. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters 44; the contrary, 0; white, 16; the abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u49	So they're accepted. So 2019-2022 Euscal Statistical Law on Plan. Next, vote. Mr Ruiz de Arboulo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u51	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u52	Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The People's Parliamentary Group has voted in favour of the processing of this law, of its final adoption, because all the small improvements that we presented to the draft that the Government had brought here were accepted by the groups that support the Government. Mr Lehendakari, we are not going to say that this is precisely the star project of the legislature in terms of political content. It is a very technical law, it is necessary and, from the People's Group, when we understand that it is something good for citizens and the conditions of dialogue and collaboration between the groups are good, we take advantage of that pull and we draw the rules forward. We could have behaved like other groups, played "I'm angry and I don't breathe." But we believe that a certain political maturity is necessary in this House, and when things don't go the way you like them, we have to keep working. It doesn't work as "I look elsewhere, I get angry, I don't breathe and I don't want to play the standard anymore"; unless the real content is that you have nothing to say or anything to bring to improve the standard and, in that case, you want to stay out of play directly. Since it was not our case and we agreed in the process, thanking the work of the spokespersons with whom we have reached that agreement, both the Basque Nationalist Party, and at work – although there has been no definitive agreement – with Elkarrekin Podemos, we voted in favour and we all welcome together that this law is in place. I hope it will be an open road for others to come forward after the summer as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The Socialist Group has voted in favour of the adoption of the Basque Statistics Plan Act, VIII Plan, as has been said, to which the Socialist Group has also endorsed. This plan is a computer element of the statistical activity to be carried out over the next four years in this Autonomous Community. My group has supported this law which gives continuity to the previous plans in the field of statistics and for which it has already abetted the And I tell you this because from the Socialist Group we defend the importance of a system of reliable statistics, because thanks to statistical information – information collected in a reliable and reliable way – we can have a knowledge of the reality in which we find ourselves. And that knowledge allows us to plan political action and make decisions that are useful to citizens. It is therefore essential to know where we come from and where we are going, to know the concrete situation in a rigorous way in order to be able to develop sound public policies, and also – as requested by the Elkarrekin Podemos group – for the effective achievement of equality between men and women, hence the issue of acceptance of the amendment on gender mainstreaming and gender breakdown. To this end, it is logically essential to have quality information, objective information, sufficient information, useful information, in order to understand and channel the problems that we must face and which politicians must solve. These data must be collected on the basis of independence, transparency. They have to be intelligible, accessible and fundamentally reusable data. And that is what this law responds to today's adoption in this Parliament. You see, I think there are more than enough arguments to consider it a necessary law and, above all, very useful for citizens. I conclude my intervention, as other speakers have done, highlighting and thanking the effort of understanding that has been made in the processing of this law and the high consensus reached among those who, responsibly, have decided to work in the processing of this law for the good of the citizens we say represent. We didn't get carried away by childish rabies either. No more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Forth point on the theme list: "By the one-day process of reading the Eubertians, EH Collect, the bill of law made by the Socialists Podemos and Basque Socialists, the 14/2012 law, June 28, the transexalsity of the genus, and the difference of their rights. Discipline and final resolution. In accordance with the table on June 4th, 2019, the assembly of Bojets will be transferred by the single reading process of the whole meeting. We'll start our side shift. On the next round, Basque Socialists, Mrs. Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u56	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. When this Parliament in its day held the debate on the draft law on non-discrimination on the grounds of gender identity and recognition of the rights of transgender persons, it was intended to provide a response, facilities and concrete solutions to the situation of Basque citizens every day. It was a law that we understood in its day as a pioneer, an ambitious text was intended and the debate in the paper was enriching. He intended to provide solutions and provide something as essential as respect for the identity of each and every one. We are here today pretending to improve what we started that day. Even today, gender identity has not been depathized by WHO. It causes us pain and surprise that, as we are amending a law that guarantees or guarantees the freedom of persons and non-discrimination in terms of gender identity, mainly in minors, we meet with a World Health Organization that speaks of gender incongruity, maintaining stigma and discrimination. It is difficult to accept when, today, trans people are one of the collectives within the sexual diversity that most human rights violations suffer, precisely because their identity is denied in some states, when in others they force them to undergo treatments or requirements that we consider unacceptable. That is why I find it difficult and emotional today to find the right words to explain the Socialist Group's vote in favour. Because I cannot forget that, although today we are going to take a fundamental step for Basque boys and girls, as is the elimination of the requirement of a psychiatric report prior to the rest of the process, society still has stages to go through. Diversity enriches us as a society, but there are still people who still do not dare to define their identity for fear of rejection. This is especially true of children and adolescents. There are many transgender people who still hide their truth, who live hidden and that is a discouraging picture for those who want to live free in their identity. That is why the suffering and sometimes irremediable consequences of the boys and girls who are part of this collective cannot be denied. The transsexual label includes a wide reality and many nuances, which go beyond a mere question of chromosomes and genitals. Unfortunately, the myths about transsexuality are still full of sordid and marginal stories that dehumanize these people for breaking expectations. But the visibility that has been given in recent times in childhood and transgender adolescence has led us to a sort of social pact, of recognition of these minors and adolescents, where the fact that it is a reality to respect, recognize and protect is getting deeper and deeper. That is why it is very important that our attitude is the attitude of these parents who accompany us today and who have promoted this change of law, that of listening to and respecting these children, their needs and their experiences. There is nothing that the minor has to integrate; those who will have to adjust their expectations are the rest of the components of society, which, as we are seeing on many occasions, is the most complicated thing for them. Achieving the well-being and happiness of trans children and adolescents is not only the responsibility of their families and their environment, but is the responsibility of society and, above all, of politics, which has to implement the necessary tools for this. Childhood and adolescence is a vital moment, in which many physical, emotional and psychological changes occur, aimed at each person finding his or her own identity. If a teenager or a child who is transgender cannot find the support of his or her environment, of his or her family, to understand that there may be a contradiction between the sex assigned at birth and his or her sexual identity, he or she may be caught in an absolutely painful situation. This is why I want to give special recognition to those parents who, by the hand of their children, make the most important journey of their lives: to accept, educate and respect the freedom of the child. I want you to know that in addition to making that journey easier, you avoid years of pain, isolation, insecurity, and accelerate the achievement of that happiness, which is the goal of any mother and father. Believe me if I tell you that in our opinion you are admirable, therefore, all my recognition and that of my political party. In days like today, in a rostrum like this, in which politics is so in doubt, in the times that run, I still believe that politics serves something. Being able to agree to improve the lives of citizens makes the profession of politics still meaningful. Before I finish, I would like to give special recognition to those parents who continue this struggle despite living with the absence of a child; a special mention to Naizen, who as an organization work to improve the lives of transgender children and adolescents; and a thank you to whom, in a generous way, only a summer ago, brought me closer to the reality of his daughter and turned a goal, initially ethical and moral, into a political and personal commitment. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u57	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Arana, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u58	Yeah, good morning, everybody. Naizen kolektiboa, ongi etorri. Welcome to everyone on this very important day for many of us. Fifty years ago, the clientele of the Stonewall Inn bar, which was flagged by trans, racialized women, those excluded from a macho and heteropatriarchal society, stood up in the face of constant police abuses and discrimination against the various bodies, the diverse identities and the free expression of sexuality, giving rise to the revolts that assumed the principle of demonstrations that took place in the following years in different places and in different territories. Euskadi celebrated the first manifestation of pride in 1978, against the Law on Dangerousness and Social Rehabilitation, and framed in the week of the marginalized. Pride was born as a tool to fight for the sexual diversity of all the people who make up our society. From Stonewall, and thanks to social mobilization, progress has been made that demonstrates the need to continue to build collectively to end the exclusions that heteronormality has combined. Advances in the depathology of transsexuality, the elimination of homosexuality as a mental illness, or the adoption of laws that protect us from discrimination in all areas that generate social and economic vulnerability, the adoption of laws that recognize all identities and bodies present in our society. Today is a very important day, if any, one of the most important that could live as a lesbian and political, in this order. To advocate today the adoption of the amendment to article 3 of Law 14/2012 of 28 June 2012 on non-discrimination on grounds of gender identity and recognition of the rights of transgender persons. With this modification we are going to take a very important step in the depathology of transsexuality, because, through this modification, transsexual people will finally not need a diagnosis or a psychiatric, psychological or previous medical treatment report. Congratulations, because you finally got it. From Elkarrekin We can, however, all look with concern at the rise of ultra-right formations and their rise, because of the complicity of certain parties, in public institutions, which seem committed to insisting on the spread of LGBT-phobic discourses, and which intend to deepen in the destruction of the progress of recent years. We will not stop claiming and fighting for our rights and our dreams. Dreams that you dreamed of on any day, having coffee with Aitzole and Aingeru, and that today have come true. Today I want to put a voice to a woman I admire, I admire her for her work, her courage and her struggle. A woman I've learned a lot from, currently a spokesperson at Donostia City Hall. These are his words: "Does your mother use drugs during pregnancy? Are you promiscuous? Are you a man who likes women or men? Are you a woman who likes men or women? How? Don't you want to operate on your penis? You making money with him or what? Don't you want to get boobs? That's weird, isn't it? Would you rather be a florist or hunt lions in Africa? But you know you'll never get to be a woman, right? "All these phrases are still in my head today," says Aitzole. "Sometimes I think of them for a short of humor. Maybe in a while I will. But these phrases are not fiction, they are real and have been uttered by health professionals. For moments I laugh, until in some talk or formation I give someone jumps with which they have recently asked the same question. "Sometimes I fall back," says Aitzole, "yet more in time, when bullying "Fortunately there are things that have changed. Today we have families who defend their sons and daughters to let them be that same for which no one asks permission or review, the girls and boys you are, disassembling many myths and prejudices along the way. "We still have today, and very strongly, a trans-organized and proud activism. There are things that have changed and there are things that remain the same. "What made Ekai commit suicide in 2018 remains the same; what makes us have to go through systematically for professionals who diagnose a mental illness that only heals by modifying the body remains the same; what makes someone tell us who we are and how we have to be or makes many women like me insult or not hire them remains the same; what made it just tomorrow, June 28, but 50 years ago Sylvia Rivera, a trans woman, a Latina, an immigrant, a sex worker and homeless woman, to launch at Stonewall Inn that first heel against the police abuses to which she was subjected, remains the same. "Fortunately, today," says Aitzole, "is a great day not to remain the same. It is a historic day that we look back, in his 20-year-old self, would not have imagined; a day so that the people who have been denied our identity, our dignity, we no longer have to prove anything before the law; a day to say loud and clear that we have not chosen to be anything; a day for the laws and many people to make that change of look to whom we have always been, to whom you have always been; a day when the frosty looks turn into warm. And that day has come." These are the words of Aitzole, eskerrik asko, and of many of the people, sure, who accompany us today. I would like to end by reminding all those people who have not been able to enjoy this advance, all those who gave us strength to continue fighting. I send them all a hug from wherever they are, because they were us, because we are they will be. And I close with a phrase from Marta Shelley "Forgive me to be excited, but it's a very important day," the lesbian activist who proposed 50 years ago to go out on the street and march proudly. Marta said that "freedom is not something for which you fight, win and end; freedom is something for which every generation must fight to maintain." Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u59	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Deputy EH Collector, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u60	Pedro Almodóvarren Bad education We have hitherto preferred to regulate, to place boundaries on different objects, to seek modes of placing them within the supposed normality. We've identified people who are in the hallway and their bodies as bodies were sick from medicine, from digestion, but we haven't realized that what's sick is our society. Today, we take a very important step to face the pathology that has made many people's lives a bad film. Neither science, nor society, nor anyone, can pass over a person's self-perception, or decide on them. We wish to acknowledge to every one the right of using or not using the means which the law prescribes. To have a right to freedom, to determine its way, its body, and its life. We want all people to be able to live without having to ask permission from medicine to be accepted or accepted. In the wonderful film Pride I want to use this moment to remind and thank the work of people and collective people who have brought us to the present day. Those who had decided not to surrender their rights against Stonewall's police and their daily rights in front of the armed forces who had not been silent in front of Francis's murder, because Elisa and Marcel in 1901 were transformed into Elisa and Mario, the various lesbians and gays in the Basque Country; their freedom during the season of Fricism, to those who had ended their life in prison; This is because it's time to thank me and my team, with your fight and your achievement, because you can give us our signature, but I want you to know that it's your fight and victory. Today we bet to claim autonomy over the body itself, to regain it again, to be able to decide about ourselves again; that being able to operate or undergo a treatment is only the decision of each and every one, and it is valid to make this decision as well as not. But we can all decide. How simple, and so complex at the same time, to accept the individual freedom that makes us grow and enrich as a collective. I want to end up as I started, using a phrase from a beautiful film. Transamerica To-day, looking into all your eyes, we say that we see you with a great smile, only that we see you and your rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. And I want to greet my guests today, who are all very welcome. I'm really excited to defend our team's behavior this evening because it's up to me. It's my job to participate in today, but I can't leave you with the Eural Alberte members of the team without mentioning them. He should be here today for me. Unfortunately, it couldn't have been that way because it had an operation, it wasn't serious, but he couldn't be here today. And well, I wanted to quote a person and a politician like him, both in our party and even in our institutions, because he's worked for the right and freedom of all men. I know he's gonna see it and quote it for him. Today's a big day. Important to get transsexual and transgenero-resultologization on the way. In the Basque Act, in order to prove sexual identity, we will accept the legal assessment that we do not need to present psychiatric reports. We shall thus eliminate an existing inconvenience, because we defend the free decision of individuals. He will therefore take another step from the Euskakia, but not the last. It's a necessity to guarantee the rights of all transsexuals and transgeneros, and to check the ownership of the genre in order to obliterate the legality of the psychiatric report. All other groups of the Basque legislature, except for one group, are put together by the legal proposition, which is at the present moment to alter this part of the established regulation, the famous 14/2012 law. This law allowed Euskadi to be at the head of the world in terms of recognition of the rights of trans people, promoting the first autonomous gender identity unit that offers comprehensive and multidisciplinary treatment. In 2010 the Berdindu service was also created, which not only brings together the attention of the LGBTI people themselves, as well as their relatives and relatives, but also includes the attention to schools including the provision and training in cases where they are needed. Also, thanks to the adoption of Decree 234/2015 on the administrative documentation of transgender persons, in the Basque Country we again pioneered the implementation of an initiative as necessary as this for the waiting period that awaits transgender women and men until we were able to correct the official documentation and have a DNI that reflects the true identity. In 2016, the Basque Government again showed its support to women and men, and transgender boys and girls through the approval and publication of the protocol for educational institutions in the accompaniment to trans or non-regulatory gender-control students and their families. And also with the guide itself of comprehensive care for people in situations of transsexuality, which was also presented on 22 June of the same year. The Basque Parliament has always taken into account the existence of women and men, and transgender boys and girls, and has sought to provide the best possible legal framework to guarantee their rights, your rights and meet specific needs in the most effective way. And once again, the Basque Parliament has listened to and responded to your needs and those of trans people. Law 14/2012 was to be amended due to the passage of time and the progress that has been made in this area. Part 3 of the Law. it will affect the article, but it will allow every man to build his genus and sexual orientation freely, and will not require any preliminary report or diagnosis to prove that they have a trastora called the genus-disphere. The new law will cause these people not to be regarded as sick. In like manner, they will be themselves, and not others, who will prove their identity. We're taking another step, but not the last one to ignore transsexuality as pathological, and to facilitate the transformation of sex. It is our duty to work in order to destroy all those obstacles which hinder their daily life. It is not acceptable to have a third one that will question our identity and deny our free decision. The legal proposition that will be admitted is that only transsexuality can be known according to what man freely says, and, as with sexual identity, cannot be diagnosed. Transsexuality is not a disease, it's not a trastorno or an anomaly. Transsexuality is a part of man's multiplicity. Transsexuality has existed throughout history, all ages and all cultures. After all, nature is like that. Nature is not normal, it is plurality, but for the first time in history, they are now accepting and helping men from their infancy. And this proves to us that there is no such thing as a trastorno, that there is no evil in the head, that they have no distractions, that they have neither children nor children. The transsexual children have given us an excellent lesson, an example of courage and enterprise. You and your parents are the model of love. This legal change had been a demand of the collectives and associations for the rights of transgender persons. They were demanding us, you were demanding that your situations be dealt with without any prejudice and without the consideration of sick people. Only one point of the article is modified, but it is a point with sufficient identity to take it very much into account. It puts us at the level of countries like Iceland. The text that will be adopted today is the result of collaboration with these associations, with all of you and with all of you. We have gone hand in hand and in the future we will continue to work together and together because there is still much to be done. We must continue to build an Euskadi that is more respectful of diversity and in which all rights are recognized for all people. Eskerrik asko denoi bihotz-bihotzez, mila esker. It is a necessity and it is also an obligation of all public authorities.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. [[Applause]] Thus, since the discussion has been completed, the legal proposition is made to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 64; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u64	So the 14/2012 law, 28 June, is approved by the law of the transsexuals not to neglect the identity of the genus and to change their rights. [[Applause]] After that, it's time for voting. So, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, all good days. I want to say hello to all the people who came here first. As has been said here, the notion of transsexuality refers to the situation whereby the sex that was assumed to be a person at birth in the care of his or her genitals does not coincide with the sex that that person feels. Transsexuality, therefore, is no disease, it cannot be diagnosed, it is no disorder, no anomaly, but it is part of human diversity, therefore, it is not diagnosed. Gender or sexual identity is what a person feels as his own and expresses freely. We claim from the People's Group, as it could not otherwise be, the principle of non-discrimination to the free development of the human personality. We recognize that the obstacles faced by transgender people in different areas of life must be removed and we recognize the discrimination that still persists in our society because of different sexual orientation or gender identity. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that all this is very clear in the current law, Law 14/2012 of 28 June 2012 on non-discrimination on grounds of gender identity and recognition of transgender persons. All we have to do is read the explanatory statement, and that is absolutely clear. Article 3 states that "for the purposes of the provisions contained in this Law, both the person who has proceeded or is proceeding with the rectification of the mention of sex in the Civil Registry, in accordance with Law 3/2007 of 15 March, regulator of the rectification registrar (...), and the person who certifies, by means of a report from medical or psychological staff, the following extremes: that he or she lacks personality disorders that lead to error in the gender identity he or she manifests and pretends to be recognized, showing a stable, doubted and permanent will in this regard; and that he or she presents a dissonance, equally stable and persistent, for at least six months, between the biological sex and the gender identity felt as his or her own". Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a diagnosis, and this group understands this. It is a matter of proving the fact that a person is transgender for the purposes of the provisions contained in this Act. This is not at all about the legal identity of the transgender person. For us it is an absolutely guarantee, I repeat, of access to the forecasts and the contents regulated by this law. It is a question of accrediting, of strengthening the will of the transgender person in access, as I say, to the issues regulated in this law. Therefore, I want to say clearly that it is not a diagnosis of any disease, because there is no disease to diagnose. It is a question of proving a situation in which gender identity does not coincide with the sex of a person, precisely so that these people, from their absolute freedom, decide for themselves what they want to be. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u66	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Five point in theme list: "The American patriots and the Socialists of the Basque Socialists have made a legal proposition made by parlamentary groups to guarantee their incomes and inclusium. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. So, it's the side shift and the opposite turn, so who wants to participate in the side shift, besides the Euas patriots and the Sociists of the Basque Socialists? Not on side shift. So, Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u67	Yes, thank you, President. It has been a year since we wanted to open this debate and improve the proposal that we had made Basque Socialists and Nationalists. This debate was postponed at the request of the parliamentary group EH Bildu initially and by the People's Group thereafter. During this year we had two stops, during the budget negotiation, at the request of the EH Bildu group, and for the call in two elections, which have prevented any progress. But we can't wait any longer. It is necessary for this Parliament to state whether or not it wants to tackle the improvement of our social protection system and to do so from the point of view of the dignity of the right of all people living in the Basque Country to have minimum incomes, from there and not from any other point of view. The burden of proof on the effectiveness of the system lies with the public authorities, not those who are forced to go to income guarantee income. And this is what this bill is about. The Socialist Group proposes today that we do the work that this House has imposed itself on all groups, without exception: to strengthen our social protection system, one of the main strengths of Euskadi as a country, one of the main strengths offered by our self-government. On this principle we propose, with this reform, to arrive at more with more resources, for more households, making more effort where there are minors and pensioners at risk of exclusion, betting for more inclusion and seeking more consensus. That is what we have to resolve in this plenary today, so that in the coming months let us say how we achieve it, without anyone giving up their positions of maximums, but from the minimums we share. And I'm talking about the next few months without further delay. If we share the minimums, it will be possible to reach the global agreement, we are convinced of it. There is time if there is conviction and will; and there is, because this year we have already known different positions of the political groups in this House. There should be no delay in these proposals for them to be translated into amendments. We would have liked to have advanced the task, and that is why we chose the formula of the bill, making use of the power that we all groups have, the power that we all groups exercise to advance the laws. I would like to recall how we have come this far: the Socialists committed themselves in the elections to tackle this reform in order to reach out to those who do not arrive and need it, so that no one who does not need it will be left with a euro that does not belong to him, and so that fewer and fewer people will need this support to get decent wages and decent pensions that will enable them to meet their needs. This electoral commitment is shared by us when we draw up the governance agreement and open it to the whole parliamentary arc when we asked, in the first half of the legislature, for a proposal to work on. We fulfill in time and form. Then, all the groups called for this proposal to be out of comprehensive reform of the system and, at the same time, it was proposed to open the debate to different groups who have much to say about improving our model. The Socialists have not only participated in these reflections in this House, but we have, in parallel, opened a forum at the Ramón Rubial Foundation, with different experts who were talking to each other about the issue. The law was to be introduced. I have already told you why your consideration has been postponed so far and that our disposition is full for all that is to strengthen and expand social rights to improve them. The Socialist Group has experience in the work of trust to overcome what seems to be insurmountable obstacles, to ensure that no one renounces their maximums and to establish the common ground on which to build rights. It was hard to do the Housing Act, which was presented by my parliamentary group as a proposal for a law, but we did so, with full legal backing and today we remain the only place in Spain that has recognized the public obligation to guarantee housing to citizens without the resources to pay for it. It is the same thing that we intend to do if, in a moment's time, this plenary endorses the handling of the proposal. Since we registered it more than a year ago, we have heard various opinions. I have to say that there are some socialists who did not like anything, for excessive or distorting. But we considered that it was not the time to cross reproaches or to underline differences, because in the midst of the noise we have detected a very majority, perhaps unanimous, will to go to the fundamental, to what we have mentioned from the beginning: more resources for more homes, with more effort where there are minors and pensioners, and with greater inclusion. We wanted to hear that shared position directly. All groups know of our commitment and our determination. All the groups know that the Socialists and the Socialists have wanted to know in advance their vision, the possibilities of meeting and all those conversations we have come out with the impression that it is possible, that we can offer an answer that corrects mistakes, that proposes solutions that are not now given and that is directed to ensure that, with the right to the armored benefit, fewer people have to come to this mattress. That will be the great success of this reform. That is why the Socialist Group does not want to talk about the things that we have not yet agreed on in this procedure today. What we want is to remember where we are going and where we propose to go. We start from a model of success, as all social organizations understand and defend, with their shortcomings, with their failures, but it is the model of reference in the rest of Spain. It has been so for those who, like Navarre and Catalonia, have addressed this issue and have not been able to reach the point of correction and protection of inequalities that we have achieved in Euskadi thanks to the road that we have travelled together in the last three decades, since the first plans of the fight against poverty. A model of success that has failed, however, to address new realities that have been presented to us, especially after the last big and long crisis. A crisis that the Socialists believe we cannot give up without the rescue of those who have suffered the most. And that is why we have looked to Europe to move forward in social cohesion. We believe that new tools are needed for the new situations; that a more flexible rule is needed that allows us to adapt at every moment to the different units of coexistence that can arise, that allows us to get to where it does not arrive and needs us, that allows us to do so especially in the most vulnerable households for exclusion, where there are minors, where there are pensioners, where there are women alone at the head of a family, where there are victims of violence in the family and especially for gender-based violence. We also want the beneficiaries to be released from liability when there are undue charges, a more paused and proportionate assessment of possible non-compliances, with varying degrees, and where the withdrawal of the benefit is the last resort. As we want to inexcusably strengthen social and labour integration programmes that remove the risks of exclusion. A reinforcement that cannot be exhausted in this law, because it will also require that it be complemented by a reform of Lanbide that makes that body a more effective tool. And it will also require refining the portfolio of social services that is beginning to unfold. The Socialist Group is convinced that these objectives are shared and that the tools to achieve them are set out in this proposal. That is what we want it to be valued in this consideration. It is not a blank cheque to our initiative, it is not blind support, it is not a renunciation of anything, because agreeing is not renouncing. To agree is to strengthen the great commitment to social cohesion that this House has made over the years. And the Socialist Group is going to continue with the open doors and the open hand, so as not to despise one of the contributions – wherever they come from – that allow us to make the common soil more solid. We have wasted too much time defining our positions, too much time focusing on shortcomings and shortcomings, too much time feeding grievances. Our ambition, the ambition of the Socialist Group, is even greater: it is to ensure that no one needs this mattress because the rest of the labour and social policies ensure that there is sufficient income in all households to meet their basic needs. But as long as that comes, we propose to take a leap and we are ready to do so with the whole of this Parliament. That is why we call for our proposal to be taken into consideration. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u68	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u69	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Eunerative patriots, groups and Social Partyists, have a legal proposition to guarantee the income of a year ago presented to them, and to promote them, as has been said. The 18/2008 law is good and advanced. He sees poverty as the problem of the whole society, and not only as the problem of those who suffer. The introduction of the revenue and the law of remuneration has succeeded in having a more cohesion of society. There is Gini's index, which measures the inequality of society, in which Euskade appears in the presence of the advanced European nations. This is how much of the social protection system we have in force has contributed. Even the effects of economic crisis, Eukadin, in order to ensure incomes, we may say that they have been much more mild by the rent. I'm sure we all agree with what we've said so far. In many places of the state the Euscadian Society has been established as a model, and the Law of the Confederation of Money, although afterwards it has not been advanced to force a law of this kind. I am convinced that all groups share that Law 18/2018, for income guarantee and social inclusion, is a good law that has allowed Basque society to be well cohesive and that the results of the Gini index, which measure the inequality of society, will yield results very close to those of the most advanced countries in Europe. I am sure that we will also agree that the 10 years since the adoption of the law and the serious economic crisis suffered make us think about ways to improve in that law. These years of law enforcement have highlighted certain dysfunctions and situations that would be interesting to improve, in order to give better coverage to the people who are worst going through it in our society. Similarly, as we have repeatedly pointed out, it seems to us that an amendment to this important law requires as much consensus as possible, a calm and calm debate outside electoral periods and party discussions. And with this intention we introduced the bill of law to be able to have a quiet debate beyond the time of election, and to be able to dispute and agree with a certain articulate text among them all. The several teams asked us to postpone our negotiations, and we have received the terms. There are two processes of election, and the time has come to change the law, to improve each group, to bring in its contributions and improvements. In order to improve the law we have force to give the best answer to the dysfunctions we have found in reality, we have brought articulate text ready to discuss the legislature. It must be said that we have heard many of the agents and many of them published their point of view on the committee, and make their wishes and contributions. Then I'll read what I said writing the nets. The proposal for a law, which we are discussing, is part of the basic document for the improvement of income guarantee income presented by Councilwoman Artolazabal in May 2017. The document consists of three distinct parts: an introduction, a basic diagnosis analysing the impact, operation and comparative analysis of Euskadi's income guarantee income, and a third with proposals for improvement and regulatory change. I now read a few comments from Sareen Sarea, whom I assume will recognize his value and work in this field: "We consider it opportune to improve the regulations governing the guarantee of income in order to equip it, on the one hand, with the most suitable means to meet the new needs and, on the other, to correct the dysfunctions observed in its implementation (...). "At the general level, the report presented by the Department of Employment and Social Policy", May 2017, "it seems to us comprehensive, well-built technical and documentaryally and useful as a basis document to open the debate on the improvement of the Basque model of income guarantee". We believe that it is essential, in order to improve the protection system that we have, to begin with a thorough analysis of the current situation of GIR and we believe that the report submitted by the Basque Government offers a deep and comprehensive picture of reality. This actual and up-to-date data on the current law allows us to see certain dysfunctions in its application and improvements necessary to remain a social protection reference and to prevent people who are having a bad time from staying behind, because we want to remain supportive and to have a society as cohesive as possible. And considering all this, we are here, in order to maintain the income of money which we are discussing today, in order to improve the rent. The origin of the law is clear, and it seems important to us to read what the explanation says: 'The Egyptian model has a double right to ('... .). Euscadian income admits of the right to be economical resources to the fundamental needs of life, and to receive a custom assistance to work or social speculation through an inclusium contract." Social protection system measures must be adjusted to improve the coverage of preparations, and to repair the mistakes shown during the course of years. We have distributed in six different sections the improvements we propose: One. As a autonomous system to ensure the incomes and socialization of the eucalyptic system, which forms a consistent and integrated whole. The system will be included in the employment services, which will have to do with the other sectial systems on the view of indirectity; social services, health, education, housing... Two. To encourage and improve the chances of the benefit of the candidates to work and to arrive at the society of society. Three. To establish a system that is closer to the citizen, to get more information about the development, and to provide a custom support for specific needs. Four. Improving the signal for approximation: the equality of treatments and the zeal of the members of the community of life, and the diversity of relations which may arise in the several states of families and legal relations. Five. To open ways to improve the management of preparations, the deadlines will be completed in the remuneration. Six. The role of all the preparations which make up the eucalyptic system for the support and socialization of incomes. We will then make a brief review of the most important changes and improvements we propose to existing regulations. With regard to statutory economic benefits, the guaranteed income for pensioners, together with income guarantee income, is provided for persons integrated in a pension centre who do not have sufficient income to meet the costs associated with their basic needs. The concern for the situation of pensioners is evident, and we are all aware of the concentrations and demonstrations that are taking place on Mondays in this group. In addition, in Euskadi widows with lower pensions have been completing their pension for years and the improvement of pensions in the State was the sine qua non We consider it important to differentiate income for pensioners because, obviously, in the conception of dual law, the purpose of these people is not inclusion in the world of work. It also redefines the concept of unity of coexistence in order to equate, as far as possible, this idea of UC – unity of coexistence – with the real coexistence of persons in the same home. Exceptions to this general rule are also provided for by the understanding that, in exceptional circumstances, home is shared without belonging to the same unit. In order to improve protection, the requirements for access and maintenance of economic benefits are amended by reducing to two years the minimum period of registration and effective residence for living units with minors or dependent persons. It is also proposed to exempt compliance with the minimum registration period and to submit various documents to persons seeking international protection or asylum. A new model for the determination of the maximum guaranteed income of economic benefits is articulated in order to correctly adapt protection to the diverse realities of the population. This model is based on a base amount determined by the indicator of common minimum expenses in Euskadi and additional supplements (number of adults who are part of the cohabitation unit, number of minors, single parenthood, family violence, disability...). This formula has been developed by experts outside the political parties that we present the initiative. Statistical aspects have been taken into account in formulating it, as well as the vision of individuals and entities familiar with the reality faced daily by vulnerable groups, given that they work closely with them. Suspensions for breach of obligations are eliminated and replaced by a system that reflects the commitment to include all persons in the co-existence unit or pension centre. As a result of the entry into force of the Housing Act, supplementary housing benefits are eliminated. The proposal gives a new treatment to the determination of resources for access to benefits, in particular with regard to the calculation of assets in a way that better protects those in need. In the case of quantities unduly perceived and in order to limit the potential negative impact on the beneficiary population, the limitation limits are graduated, a request endorsed by many of the groups working for these people in a situation of special vulnerability and which we have also commented and discussed on several occasions in Parliament. The proposal contains an amendment to the sanctioning system, with the aim of making it more effective and applicable to the reality of the Basque guarantee and inclusion system. It is plain, then, that this proposition, after all this has been mentioned, is favorable to the maintenance of the community, and the law of remuneration of the revenues. Ask pensioners, children-unital units, refugees, families with only one parent, women who have suffered machista violence, disabled. I will give precise examples about the amount of money prepared, so that these improvements also may be made clear. Number of members of the co-existence unit: one adult, now receives 644.49 euros, in proposal 659,75; co-existence unit composed of three persons, two adults and one minor, now receive 915.47 euros, in proposal 946,40 euros. Another example is four persons in a cohabitation unit, two of whom are adults and two minors, currently receiving EUR 915.47, in proposal 1032.40. As I have said, as far as the sum of money is concerned in the proposal proposed, so many and many of the persons are benefited. You still want more change? You want us to go beyond the law? For this purpose we stand in this course of ours, in order to hear and assent as far as possible to an articulate text, with a definite proposition. As we have said at first, because the improvement of our social protection requires all of us, and if we wish to continue to be quit, we believe that it is most important to obtain a large harmony. Let us not use excuses not to get into the bottom of the matter. The last legislature, and this one too, have made several proposals for legislation. Let us be brave, we have an articulated text with improvements to the existing legislation that will serve us to negotiate and agree, in order to obtain among all parliamentary groups the best protection for the people who are going through the worst. Failure to deal with this proposal of law is in no way beneficial to the society to which the opposition has so often appealed. Giving him a door means keeping Law 4/2011 in force, which they have so many times criticized for the cuts and tightening of requirements he assumed with regard to the original law of 2008, reminding them, once again, that this law, which they now so much defend, did not obtain the favorable vote of the abertzale left. I hope that representatives of EH Bildu will not again miss another opportunity. Now they have the opportunity to get involved and work to get, among all of them, a good law of income guarantee and social inclusion, in their hands too. Let us move forward, make concrete proposals on the text presented by the groups that we support to the Government. We are ready to listen, to agree, for all to achieve a leading law on social protection, which continues to be relevant at state and European level. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. On the other hand, Mrs. Guanche and the Kotha. On the counter shift? Yeah. Together, Poedemus, the word is yours. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u71	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chiefs, guests, good days. Today we are in a debate that says that it is only a process, that management or that technical is not political. But the first thing we want to say is that that's not true, because today we discuss the kind of society we want to have. We are debating whether or not we are moving to a law that cuts the rights of people living in Euskadi, so we are going to talk about content, Mrs Sánchez. And I'm going to tell you about it, about Clara and An, they're fictional names, but their stories are crude reality. Nahia is a surviving woman of Machist violence, with two children, who breaks up with her aggressor and separates, and stays with her two children but without income, because Lanbide takes her GIR. With this proposed law, far from improving, Nahia would worsen her situation, because this law abandons women like Nahia. This law makes us invisible to all women. Firstly, because it does not contain a gender impact report and the process is almost the least. Without an impact report it is not measured how this law affects more than half of those who charge it and hides the fact that Lanbide's arbitrary practices send women a contradictory message: report that we are going to help you, but then we do not help you. Without a gender impact report, for example, this is never going to be detected, and it's not that I say it, take a look at Ararteko's report. Secondly, because it does not mention the need to promote reconciliation and responsibility, and penalizes people by removing the GIR if they reduce their hours or leave a job "without just cause". We're all going to think that care is a justified cause, because it's common sense. But the thing is, Lanbide is taking off your GIR today and doesn't care if you have to take care of your child or a sick family member. And I don't say it, so does Ararteko. Thirdly, the concept of gender-based violence in this law disappears from the protection system. Does that ring a bell? This law, like the Andalusian Government in some of its actions, erases the concept of gender-based violence and rescues, with the smell of naphthalin, that of abuse in the family sphere. And this is inconceivable, at the same time inconsistent with his project of Machist violence, but, above all, it is an abysmal leap backwards. It de facto denies the existence of sexist violence and in the RGI women like Nahia instead of getting better, they're going to get worse. Welcome be, no doubt, all measures of positive discrimination to those who need it, but never, ever, at the expense of confronting or invisibility of one another to contemplate another. Because the reform of the GIR cannot be a door to the involution of women's rights. Lanbide has a lot to do, we have shown it by bringing in initiatives and interpellations constantly, and this path that is being taken today is not the one that should be. Women can never, but being half the perceptive population, be invisible. For this reason, we will now refuse this legal proposition, because we do not want any law which excludes women. But we continue to analyse the proposal with the great headline mentioned by Mrs Arregi, the pensioner's GIR. Ana is a woman pensioner, income-guarantee earner as a supplement to her precarious pension. Because of health circumstances, he has to go to live with his daughter, his son-in-law and his grandson, and Lanbide cuts off his benefit. At the same time, you, experts in selling smoke – especially if it generates votes – take out that great empty headline: "a GIR for pensioners only". Let's see if they can get some pressure off the mayors friends. But you know what? Pensioners are not fools and know that, even if you do not count it, compared to the nearly 20 euros that you are going to earn extra with this proposal that is being presented today, it is better to stay with the 204 that you would earn if you did not have years twisting laws and applying cuts on the most disadvantaged people. In short, instead of taking care that we don't have poor pensioners, they have a bunch of regulations that, in addition to assuming objectively worsening their conditions, prevents them, for example, from travelling with the Imserso or leaving the village without asking Lanbide for permission. And, of course, to know how Lanbide will act; I certainly do not trust. And, look, you have to ask permission but in no case exceed 90 days outside of Euskadi, because if they do it within a year, by the art of birlibirloque, Lanbide erases your actual residence and goodbye to the RGI. For this reason, we say no more of this legal proposition. The want of pensioners and the non-negative reform that manipulates proclamations. But we also say no because this law shows that we have a government that does not know how a part of the population lives in Euskadi. Clara's one of those mothers the PNV doesn't see. A single mother with two girls who complements her racist salary with the RGI and to which Lanbide takes it, convinced that she has a couple who must keep her financially, when she has said as active and passive that the person who appears registered at home is an absolutely unknown person, but who rents her the house refuses to leave her. With this law, Clara would not find an improvement in her life, but even more difficulties, because she is designed for a very different world than the one in Euskadi faced by thousands of people. I'm going to say some of them. The first has to do with the calculation of the amount, because Mrs Arregi has forgotten to say how much this indicator of common minimum expenditure amounts to. An indicator that says that in Euskadi the expenses are covered by 455 euros. On the other hand, to this ridiculous amount adds a series of complements that translate into two consequences: the people who work in Lanbide will not know or be able to calculate the benefit that belongs to the people and, consequently, no one will know how much they should charge. And who benefits? Of course, not the people and the right. But it's also that these complements are removed and put, because if you behave badly, in Mr. Belandia's opinion, they can take them away from you. The law doesn't explain how or when or why, but the case is that it clearly says they can take it away from you. In short, leaving as a single and secure amount the 455 euros, provided you have a home yourself, because if you share it and are lucky enough to enter into one of the numerous exceptions that Mrs Arregi has pointed out, what you will have to charge to cover your expenses is 204.75 euros. But we're not just talking about quantities. No, no, With this law, disdainful of all the experts, entities and social movements who claim that the RGI should go down to 18, a system is invented for young people to access, that if it were not because it was going to be a drama, it would laugh. I'll explain myself. If you can now access anyone with more than 23, with this law only if you have contributed to Social Security. They fill their mouths saying that with 18 you will be able to collect, but only if you have more than 240 days and have lived independently for a year. I wonder if this really is the only way they've thought of helping young people, who have a scandalous unemployment rate. But I continue with another, which are not quantities, and is the limitation to an RGI per dwelling. Do you remember what happened in 2011, when it was limited to two RGIs per dwelling? I remember it as if it were right now. Rent prices rose, houses without the right to land were increased, RGI was lost thousands of people and, even today, despite being prescribed, people are still being claimed money badly paid by Lanbide. But that wasn't the only thing. Many NGOs working to complement the routes where the public does not arrive, had to reinvent themselves and do so, because what they served no longer served. And the itineraries of the people on the street went from one or two years to four or five. Catastrophism, you will say, because that's what you always say. No, no, Memory and a firm conviction that the public is to take care of people. I could go on, but I think this idea has become more than clear. We have said this and we will repeat it whenever necessary: in Euskadi, ending poverty is a matter of political will. Marking as sufficient a minimum income benefit that does not reach the poverty levels marked by this Government, in addition to shame, is a reflection of the political will they are putting on the table. For this reason we refuse this legal proposition. We say loudly: No more restrictions, no more restrictions on the rights of the people. The result of these cuts, because they can't be called otherwise, is the fact that the Foessa Foundation gave yesterday: there is a clear stagnation in Basquedi of severe poverty, which reaches levels higher than 2013, which is the hardest year of the crisis in Basquedi. Can't you think about it? Don't you think the solutions, too, aren't working? We're clear on that. Let's say no, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the PSE, are obsessed with control and you are forgetting that the main function of public policies is to take care of people, not to criminalize them because they are poor. Because I said it a year ago and I have it clear, you act like Maroto – in fact, you agree with Maroto's PP – but you pretend not to notice them. And that, I don't know if sooner or later, but it will fall by its own weight, because this is not a game of masks, it is the life of the people who worst happens in this country. Lives that you criminalize when you put the fingerprint as a mandatory identifier in Lanbide, passing European mandates through the arch of triumph. Lifes that criminalize when using concepts of the Criminal Code to punish administrative misconduct. Lives that criminalize with the language used by the proposition, speaking of cooperator necessary, of criminalization, in a benefit that seeks to regulate a citizen's right, in a benefit in which Lanbide wants to act as judge and party, applying these elements in a way that could be questionable, even from the perspective of the application of the Civil or Criminal Code. Lives that criminalize with the sanctioning system itself, which seeks to punish people, not social inclusion, which is the ultimate goal of this regulation. We firmly believe that impeccable use of public money is fundamental in a responsible administration, but that you use the invention of fraud that does not reach 1% to take shortcuts and justify practices that, in any other area, would be inconceivable. Can you imagine that by forgetting to seal the unemployment you will be removed from unemployment for three months and you will be fined up to 200 euros? This is the punishment that Lanbide proposes. Can you imagine that because your roommate gets a rent in B, you get a 500-euro fine and you're being prevented, for example, from accessing your retirement pension for a year? This is the punishment that Lanbide poses in his brand-new sanctioning system. Can you imagine that they help a friend register, because it is, for example, the end of divorce and this one asks for the GIR and they notify you that they will give you a fine of up to 5,000 euros? Or do they imagine that years ago they were accused of a crime – let's not go into details – being in a bad situation they're going to ask for GIR and tell you they don't give it to you because you've committed a crime? This, textual, is what picks up this piece of law. This is what Lanbide wants to do. And the truth is not only unjustifiable, but it seems to be an absolutely perverse way of punishing those who have had the misfortune of falling into poverty or those who have chosen to help someone else survive. And I wonder: do you really believe the right we have recognized? Are you guys really never wrong? Haven't you ever had a deadline? Are they really able to see the human beings behind the figures and the files? Are you really aware that Lanbide is not entitled to be a judge and a party, to limit rights, to overcondemn or double-punish people? Do they really believe that with the disaster they have mounted in Lanbide – whom they would not send even their children – they will be able to manage this chaos of benefit that they are presenting to us today? They will say that they do not condemn it, they will say that the law is created, that the system must be made sustainable. But I tell you that rights are protected and taken care of, and even if it's hard for you to understand, the RGI is a right and with this law they are tearing it apart. The rights cannot be regulated by a law without guarantees; a law that out of 107 articles has 70 references to regulatory development, which devotes 25 articles to be explained and in which there are at least 26 references to regulations, a law that states that the Government may introduce new requirements, causes of extinction, amounts and sanctions criteria. All right, let's get the chiringuito and go home, because the government legislates for us, comrades. And this isn't just ugly, it's a horror. It is giving the Government regulatory authority. It is to give the government a blank cheque to do and undo, as it is now, but by eliminating the protection that the people in court today give. It is a blank cheque to continue to ignore or disdain the institutions of control, such as this Parliament or the Ararteko, which they already ignore day by day. And for that, I'm sorry, but they won't count on us. To cut rights won by Basque citizens, won by the social struggle, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, the PSE and the PP, they will not count on us. In Elkarrekin We have been clear from the minute one: to take steps back, do not count on us. We insist that this was an unprecedented opportunity to turn to a more social proposal, to broaden and enhance an essential right for citizenship, such as the right to income security. That is why they have us available and they have no doubt that we will be working on the amendments. But this base is very difficult to fix and the alliances that are woven today are very difficult to dialogue. Today we are witnessing the loss of an unparalleled opportunity to improve the health of Euskadi, of the opportunity to end Lanbide's mismanagement, of the opportunity to build together a more decent society. You will see, but from Elkarrekin We can not collaborate with the clippings that today, as in 2011, is re-staged. It is in your power to look only at control today, or to look at what makes us a good and strong society. We know that they will talk about other territories and our election results. I have listed a number of weighty reasons in the reply that I would like, if you can, to rebaptize me. They will say that they are the government of dialogue and that we are on the sidelines, but I think they need to think a little bit about the negotiating technique of giving it up and wanting only those who do not joke. When a house has the fucking foundations – and forgive me the expression – it doesn't stand. And this is what's going to happen with this law. This is what they're signing today, with the excuses and colors they want to put on. This is what the PP says he's going to fix and with which you said you were never going to agree this law. Today they take another step to deepen in the two-speed Euskadi, take another step to leave helpless those who go through the worst and empty the content protection system. And that is not the Euskadi that is shown and claims solidarity, it is not the Euskadi of the bet for the common good or the Euskadi that is committed. It's just an Euskadi who puts patches and disdains from what she's been saying for years, one who only takes breasts out of successes and abandons to her luck those who don't have them, one who's not being able to prevent for the future, one that's far from being the decent Euskadi we want and need.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Kotja, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u73	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, chief physician. As we have predicted, the Eubertarian party and Socialist Party will vote against the tramitation of the rental for reform today by the E-H harvesting team. We all know what's happened in the past year, because the government, EAJ, and PSE took off the legal proposal proposed for remuneration in the settlement of the settlement law because they knew that we had to reverse these opposition groups. And, yes, you remembered that we put the cement for bringing the debate here on the table. Seeing that there was no protection, we put the debate back on the table so that we could have time to make an agreement. I'm sorry we haven't got an answer until a few minutes before we're having a discussion. The fact was that PP decided not to admit the transfer, then decided to put the government back down. You know the reasons and the story can be done as you wish. But this was the case, and every one may draw out the consequences which he pleases. In any case, we saw an opportunity, and we could see the opportunity of agreeing with this reform which this country is so necessary. A law of this size, conscious of its power in the life of many persons, in life, in life, and in the hedge of society, has acted with generosity, boldness, and commitment, in order to produce conditions for every moment of reform. We have expressed the will of conversation, even in the worst conditions, and probably we have invented it sometimes, and sometimes not; but we have endeavoured to secure the revenues of the revenue. And in that essay we've had meetings with fun at different times, and we have to say that these meetings have left us a clear conclusion: The government has had no will at all to change, those of the principal elements of the original legislation, which are the most pernicious and the most retrospective, especially those which limit the entrance, and make the restrictions possible to cancel. We've been trying to get our positions together. Our diagnosis was made, we publicly introduced it; and from this parliament of the Law, we made our proposals and alternatives of the unions and factors which have been made and employed in making their proposals round reforms, and put our positions on the table of political debates. We've tried to concentrate on the 5-6 elements that all these agents considered as central, but it was impossible to move the government from its positions. Apart from some exceptions, not one of our proposals has been admitted all this time, not one. I dare say that the Government has spent more time justifying its position in trying to achieve the adoption of these groups than sewing the consumers. And that's how we get to the discussion today. Our position on the legal proposition brought by EAJ and PRASE has always been clear, and we do not share in the forms and content. This proposal for a law contemplates some positive elements that we have no intention of denying, but it is a proposal with more shadows than light. It envisages increases in the amounts of the benefit but without renouncing the existing cuts. A proposal which introduces improvements, such as cancelling the temporary limitation on the perception of employment incentives, but which sets an additional limit to this benefit which seems to be a way of financing the measure itself. A proposal which proposes to unlink the IMS GIR and which is committed to a formula in which political criteria and arbitrariness will prevail. A proposal that incorporates new elements, such as the Euskadi minimum cost indicator, that we do not know how it is built. A proposal that does not respond to the difficulties women encounter in the perception and access to GIR, or that makes a bet declared by families but does not capture the necessary improvements to address situations of child poverty. A proposal that limits to an RGI per domicile, a measure that will leave many people out of the system – a lot – and that does not respond to the living reality of people who perceive RGI. A proposal with few or no changes in the conditions of access, or to correct the failure that our system has to be one of the systems with a later age of access to it. A proposal that, under the euphemism of management improvement, refocuses on control with measures such as the fingerprint. A proposal that maintains excessive centrality in employment, that does not allow an independent life for persons with disabilities, that does not respond to women sentenced to care who live in absolute precariousness and that, above all, prevents the deconstruction of highly distorted collective imaginations and the legitimization of the system. But it is, above all, a proposition which, by the unions and operators who have been expert and active in this subject, have the experience of the revenue to ensure the revenues of money, whether in the direction or in the concrete content, which does not take account of the vast consensus, which is very clearly distinguished from it. Eta formak ére aipatu behar dira éta horiek dituzten inpikazioak. 'Cause no, Mrs. Sánchez, they haven't done it in shape or in time. In this Parliament, we agree that the government should be the bringing in the bill, not the groups. You missed that agreement and brought, without talking to anyone, a bill from the groups that – let's remember – was presented unusually in this court by Councilwoman Artolazabal. A procedure with much less guarantees was chosen unilaterally, avoiding the submission of all such reports accompanying a law and preventing the opposition from making a full amendment. And, therefore, unless prior agreements are reached, acceptance of the processing involves, yes, a blank cheque. As we have no new elements for the discussion to-day, for when the chief physician of the Artolaries had already sold everything, he gave us a polite call, but the groups had not received any correspondence with us about the matter, we will fight against it. The chairman of the department has asked us to consider the legal treatment, to begin a serious, responsible debate, and every one proposes to bring proposals from his ideology and to create consumers. Well, the department will have to tell us how it's been working on his attempt until now, but ours has been a very serious attempt. And we've put these alternatives on the table, but we don't have the will to build those consensus, and that's how we have to say it. From now on it'll be like this, listen to your talk today, now it's to be seen. There was doubt that when the legal proposal had been brought to the discussion last Thursday, there was protection or there were even different versions of fun, but there was doubt about it, and the new companion came to my mind: Popular party. This is very significant for us, the head physician of the Artola generouss, in December, I must deny Mrs. Guanche in the course of December, when he has opened this reform in the public of December to PP, Mrs. Sánchez also mentioned it today. Sadly, seeing this ideological proximity that we've seen from the head of departments, and seeing the offers recently made in the legislature for weeks, we can stand on the threshold of an agreement between the ideological parties. This parliament, including the groups supported by the government, had made a clear commission to the chief of the Artolans, was demanded to encourage an agreement in the wide spectrum of income reform. But that makes all the consensus around the rent very dangerous. Up to now, PP's speech was consistent, despised, and precisely to-day you will be escorted to the very heart of our protection system, and to guarantee the incomes of incomes of central cohesion to the remuneration of the reforms of the revenue. Do you remember, Mrs. Argrei and Mrs Sánchez, when we agreed here about your speech and attitude about this subject PPk? Remember them? Mrs Sánchez then told Mrs Garrido that she had perverted the debate on GIR, that the best thing in this area in the previous parliamentary term was that all parliamentary groups had a consensus not to succumb to these electoral temptations. I agree. Mrs Arregi called for rigour and seriousness from the People's Party not to point out certain collectives, less for their origin or origin, and not to fall into stigmatization. In that debate you mentioned that it was easy to reach an agreement because, after all, the four groups had as their objective the defence of the protection system; for precisely the one who did not have that objective is going to be the one who is now facilitating the processing. Just like when they brought this in, they had another intention. Perhaps instead of taking the mistake and withdrawing this bill, they intended to stage that clamp myth, but this has brought out the real clamp in this Parliament. And it's true, the law isn't allowed today. But, you fool! example It is very dangerous with the right phosphore, which has made the cruel use of the theme with simple calculations. It is dangerous from the point of view of life, and even from the point of view of social barrier. It is unacceptable to us for those discourses about government and the groups which support government and government in the matter. And I speak with warmth, because here we have so clearly rejected these discourses. And I took a little walk in the hemerats to prepare this subject and see what position each of us had on this subject. It's sad, but I haven't found a firm statement of the Chief of Artolalliers against that discourse, fraude. Baina bai aurkitu ditugu Aburto salilburuaren deklarazioak. It was he who said that the PP had discovered the RGI line, that if he could take it off. It was he who regretted that the PP used the data to create confusion, who – in the face of attempts to modify it to harden it – responded that that would question our dignity as a society. Where do they stay? Where are they then? Because PP has not changed his discourse at all. "The income guarantee income is the maximum exponent of the failure of the social model of the PNV and generates enormous economic damage to Euskadi." This was said by Amaia Fernández in this campaign. Oyarzábal proposed a reform that would put an end to the so-called effect and we have also heard here from Mr Alonso about the perceptors of the RGI, who file like the rest of the workers and so on. The requests that PPk is about the theme are clear: The reductions, the exhausted paradigms and control. It was announced yesterday that they wanted to increase the time of census. And if you agree with PP, you're backing up the reform, and you're very lesivo. And we want to make a clear call to those who say you're in that backing system today and that you're in its production. In a serious and honest negotiation process of negotiation which will enable us to give this process which hasn't been given up until now. They can approach the far-off position if that's the will to do so, and we showed it before we did it at different times. You have read here, Mrs. Arreg, what the network members have written. It is true that this reading of the Network of the Networks was that of those proposals which the Chief of the People of Artolalands presented in that May, it did not refer to the legal proposition. I wanted to clarify why other organizations like the Network Networks, EAPN, LAB unions, ELA, UnionS, SSC unions, I don't know what else, Cáritas, have also spoken of a very different position around your legal proposition, and have shown a very clear position in front of the legal form. We've been marked by a direction, and they've set up the detailed ratings and deliberations of the government's specific proposals. And they have placed five or six elements which would be nuclear in a possible agreement, generally those which you have not received in your proposal, or have received your refusal during this whole discussion of negotiation or negotiation. In general, we were asked to guarantee incomes to its origin, to return to its initial principles, to these expressions of economic improvement, to put an end to these temporal restrictions of crisis, and to place them in the circle of a real protection system. Of course we'll have a chance to argue. For these agents will come to this parliament again, to bring their proposals, and to speak about this law, about the return of the tramitation, and then you will have the opportunity to rethink your position, and bring it back to these continents. This is a horretán geratuko naizela batha aipamen txiki bat. The dual right is not to labour inclusion, it is to inclusion, not to labour inclusion; and inclusion is long defined by decree in this Autonomous Community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing the answers, Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u75	Well, let's see. Mrs Kortajarena, on 28 June you asked to postpone the debate, we were not the socialists and nationalists who withdrew the proposal because we were going to lose. That's not the case, Mrs. Kortajarena. You went out to the press room to explain that you wanted to wait for your group to make a decision, and the People's Group also called for the debate to be postponed. That was the case and that was reflected in the press conference. In the autumn, during the budgetary negotiation, his group, the EH Bildu group, put on the table questions of silence affecting the reform of the GIR, with which we did not agree either in substance or in form. In February we approved the accompanying budget extension with what we thought we would agree, with the improvement in the amounts, with a greater effort on the part of pensioners' groups. We then entered into the long electoral process that we had and, of course, all groups agreed that we had to move that debate away, because that is what we have been trying to achieve from the beginning of the electoral debate, so that no one would try to use that issue for electoral revenue. After this whole cycle is over, we're back here, in the middle, to keep moving forward. And if today it was getting enough support to be debated in this Parliament – which is what we wanted – it would continue to be debated in this Parliament; and if it did not, it would return to the government, so that all the necessary reports could be processed so that it could return as a preliminary draft law. On the other hand, the subject of the bill has been repeated to the point of satiety. But it is that all parliamentary groups have the right to make proposals for legislation, not only the right of opposition. And what's going on? When the opposition presents it, nothing happens because it lacks legal, economic reports, the gender impact report. You have just made proposals for legislation and nothing happens when you submit it and you do not have the reports; but if you submit it others, yes, it does, it cannot be discussed, it cannot be done as has been done with other laws that have been passed and are very good. I have set the example, the Housing Act, and it is an excuse: because it does not have the gender impact report, it cannot be discussed. If we have done this 500 times throughout history in this Parliament and nothing has happened, and these magnificent debates have emerged laws that today are an example in Spain. Therefore, let us not tear our garments with something that is not so. And then it seems strange to you that it comes as a proposal for a law and it does not seem strange to the EH Bildu group to try to make a modification of the reform of the GIR in the budget negotiation. That doesn't sound weird. Try to put some modifications in there that we didn't agree with. No, what we wanted was, after all these deadlines that we have seen, to present here again to the House today the proposal for a law and, if it gets enough support, that we can have that parliamentary debate here and start the whole process of amendments. And, Mrs Guanche, it does not make this reform invisible to anyone, it does not exclude women. That's not true. Don't mix things up to confuse. It doesn't destroy anything, it improves it. Let us make proposals, seek consensus and let ourselves be left with empty rallies and refuse to work. And let us start, make all our proposals, turn them into amendments and start working as soon as possible. And if you want, we can also reach an agreement, sign all the groups and ask that we allow July so that we can start tabling amendments in July, if you want. And let's do it quickly, as soon as possible and don't waste time. We're willing. Of course, I think we have enough time to discuss, if there is any intention of reaching agreements. Of course, for our part, we will make every effort to achieve a law that improves the existing law and achieves the greatest possible consensus. And that is why I ask you to support the bill we have tabled. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u76	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Ms. Too much, Eubertarians, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u77	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. The law, probably, was perfect, and, like all laws, was to follow a tramite. There was room for corrections, alterations, and improvements in this tragedy, and probably the law would end with all of them, better, than it had begun. "But, unfortunately, you have not only denied the content of the law, or the literallity, you have denied the same discussion." And all this, as I have read, is not my words, which are Mr. Casanova's words, and he used to say, "The Government and Government are maintained," and I change this, and I say, "I'm changing this, and I'm changing this, and I'm saying, "I'm sorry for you, Mr. EH Collectordemek and Podemus, you've shown very little political abilities and very little commitment to the Basque Country, using your words, Mr. Casanova. Today EH Collector and Podemos say no, you refuse pensioners, children-units, refugees, families with only one parent, to women who have suffered violence, to avoid it. There are precise measures in the legal proposition which improve their condition. Can this law be improved? Of course! But for this we must discuss and state corrections, but upon something or other. I know we've had papers and taken signs and you've introduced things in writing, but sometimes you've said "Bueno, we're going to develop this" more, and it's not developed. So here we all have what we've said and clearly we've been arguing for the rest of us. And our position in front of our social protection system has not changed. We haven't changed it since the beginning. What we want is to have a good system of social protection, let it continue to be good, and we have always maintained that we need as much as possible the most extensive agreement. And we introduced him, it's been a year. We don't want to make advances, but it's about time we thought it was time to start arguing, and that's the only way we've brought the document to do it, we'll have it all we want to discuss and improve the time we want. But for this we must do the exact things, because we know every one's views, but all this must be put down in writing, and make precise proposals for each thing and every article we have. Eskertu nahi dut, Guanche andrea, zuk esandako gauzen inguruan... Well, he brought in specific cases, the amounts they were going to receive, etc. At least in the end, you have said that you are ready and that you are going to table amendments. So, I appreciate it, but you guys who talk so much about narrowing down the debates, that you're not given or processed... Yeah, but it can't be wide sleeve for some and narrow for others, it depends on who defends it. Yes, when you agree with the People's Party or when EH Bildu and We can agree with the People's Party, you are neither xenophobic nor what, you are therefore a travel companion, with whom you have reached a timely agreement for x. In this case, the People's Party has announced that it will abstain and abstain. But, of course, when we presented the initiative, each group had to portray itself. It's been a year since he showed up. We have tried to move forward, we have not managed to move forward until what we intended, for well, now we have the time to do so among all of us, and to get that law improved with the greatest possible consensus. With the permission of the legal officer, these ten years ago, as I am giving this career a close, I will first thank him for the excellent opportunity I have given to my party. And thank you all. I've learned a lot in there for 10 years. Experience will go with me. And if I had to say one thing, it would be very important to listen to the difference in politics that we should be willing to make a deal. That we have to leave hairs in the catera, obviously, but that it is essential to listen to the one who and those who think different from us; that we have to be able to reach agreements by leaving hairs in the catera and that it is better to reach one – although we intend to 100 – but always to make progress and improve what we are looking for, which is the improvement of the conditions of citizenship. I'm sorry, I have to confess the truth because I'm sorry that this career ends here. But by illusion, industry, respectfulness, and responsibility have fallen upon me in this new challenge. And you know where you'll find me and I'll continue to work and work in town and country work. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. And we too, and in my name at least, wish you the best in the new route you've started. For Duplin, together, Miss Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u79	Well, let's go through with it. Mrs Sánchez, no one says that you have no right to make a motion for a law. What is not right, because it breaks the trust – which is the basis of dialogue to reach agreements – is to agree on one thing and do another, and above all to sell ourselves that the guilty are the others, that we have done what we promised to do. Mrs Sánchez, you say that this law does not make women invisible. And I really want to tell you to talk a little bit with your partner in Andalusia, who has set up a tremendous scandal because Vox has decided to use a concept quite similar to this one in a situation quite similar to this one. Look at him. Mrs Arregi, we have said that the debates must be allowed to go ahead and that they must certainly be held. But we have also said, that the same part was forgotten in the logbook, that there is no negotiation or debate if rights are violated. And this bill violates rights. Then we will work on the amendments, have no doubt. But this is only arranged by throwing it in the trash and writing a new, opportunity that you in this format of presentation have taken away from us. Last year we did not give the opportunity to open the dialogue, to continue talking about this proposal of law, because this law does not collect the contributions of the collectives who came to appear – you two say what you say – because you did not fulfill in time and form the agreement we had acquired in December 2016 – you two say what you say. Because you get back things in this law that, de facto This is our whole amendment, they like it more or they like it less, consider that we have more or less right to do it, that's what we're going to do. Because we're not wrong on the side, we're clear on the side of who we are, and we're clear on how important income guarantee income is. I believe that we have demonstrated this by working and presenting a great many initiatives in this regard. I think they are all aware of the level of technical knowledge we have on this subject. And I think they know that if I'm saying these things I'm not saying them because yes, I'm saying them because I'm imagining the faces and the stories that will happen if this law comes into effect like this. In addition to this, we say that it is not because there is not the slightest justification for this law to be done by PricewaterhouseCoopers, to present it to two groups, to pay it all and also to negotiate it by the Government, and also to the groups neither call us, Mrs Sánchez, nor call us. In addition to this, we believe an absolute misconception that is being negotiated today, because this opens the door to negotiation with those who say things like that RGI is an uncontrollable tailgate. And I give the reason to Mrs Kortajarena who has amended me, Mrs Artolazabal has already opened the door a few months ago to agree with the PP. I honestly didn't want to believe it because I trusted all the amalgamation of previous speeches that there was and that I said that with the PP in this no, never. We see where I said, Diego, and there's nothing going on here. But the reality is that this law, from the top down, is full of legal insecurities and gifts to the People's Party. And for that, ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, they do not count on us. They didn't count a year ago, and they don't count now. It is a deeply criminalizing vision of poverty and social exclusion, a proposition that weighs on people's backs looking for life to move forward. And we firmly believe that the institutions have to be coherent, they have to protect people and, from that attitude and from that generosity, we will work with the amendments and in the process that opens from now on, there is no doubt about that. But we insist, to take steps back they won't count on us. They did not count a year ago, they do not count today, nor will they count in the process of the amendments. We will also listen to the collectives to come and say what they have to say about this law, which is not the basic document on which they came to position themselves. Because here if we break a deal, we break it all. Having said that, Mrs Arregi, you have undoubtedly been a few years of a lot of learning, you have been a magnificent rival and also a magnificent companion. I wish you all the luck, but I hope whoever comes will know what you're holding on to because we're still here. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Gather EH, Mrs. Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u81	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Nik gaurko purpose It is only in this discussion, as in others, that you have not shared it, that they have disputed with Mrs. Argrei, and that puts boundaries in it. And that's how it is. And the ways in which this was to be presented have been breached and, of course, I will try to be very respectful because I do not come to give rallies, I come to bring here the assessments of our group. And today I wanted to make three very clear reflections on the table. Three thoughts. One, when we're talking about rents to guarantee incomes, when we're talking about the protection system, we're talking about our model of society, which we can't agree with PP at all. Not because PP is PP, not expressly because it is PP, because the Poptular Party has revealed its position in this matter, because it has just been built against the protection system, and so have you. And we're talking about the social model, and today you're going to make a way out of it with two right laws that have a relationship with the model of society. And that, I think, seems to be a great deal of talk about the pattern of society. There was talk of building consensus, and I want to put again and again here that consensus, to a certain extent, to a large extent, is already being built. Those entities that are here; the entities, as you mentioned Sareen Sarea, have raised a very clear consensus with us. And I take advantage of the fact that the lehendakari is here, because he was on the day of the third sector recently, he recognized the work, the contribution of the entities of the third sector to social cohesion. And I would like to ask the lehendakari to listen to those entities, to listen to what these entities have to say about the process carried out, how the contributions have been collected, whether or not they have been collected, and the way forward. I would sincerely like you to be heard. And I'd like to bring a third idea into this discussion, wouldn't I? Because I think it's not a reflection of a dispute about income revenues, because, after all, many of the elements around rent are related to the privations, dysfunctions, and such as are being given in other politics, they have a relation to the limits given in other systems, as well as to the limits of our jurisdictions as the people. And all these are bent to ensure the incomes to the controversies of the revenue. But on the other hand, their origin is disputes in other places. And therefore it seems to me that he requires a deeper and wider reflection, which is all around him. And we shall discuss, as has been said, with complete seriousness and seriousness, the exact propositions. And we've brought the proposals here, and I've also made the public here to guarantee our incomes, a richer, a lighter, a more normal income, in order to build a model that's easy to handle. We'll try. We shall also endeavour to recover from the spirit of the law this moral commitment which has been made by society in the origin of these preparations. But I think reflection must go further, and I believe that we have many discussions. The dispute about the profession is Penente. Here also there was an agreement to reform the profession, time is past, this discussion is inevitable. We're going to have to discuss the way to get a proper job around the employment police. We've made a deal about it, even with you. They're not filling up. We've got to discuss the corporate intercourse, too, because it's really important. I don't know if any member of this government has thought about it or what window opens to the transfer of passive policy in this country to guarantee incomes or protection systems. And that's something to talk about, too. And it seems to me, as I said before, that the remote position may approach, but sometimes the chances must be made, that the paths are marked, and that even the companions should be marked. And I, with the lawyer's permission, two words to the lady who's the new head of the police, didn't I? For I have also fought with you the first principles of my policy. I also learned a great deal, and it has been a pleasure, I believe, that we have had occasion to understand each other in personal and political degrees, and from now on I wish you all our happiness. I hope from now on to see if I ever find you in opposition, but I wish you happiness.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 36; the contrary, 28; white; 1; Abstations, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u83	So we consider the legal proposition. Next, vote. Mrs Garrido, who represents the Basque Team Popular, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning again. Today we are discussing whether or not the legal proposition is taken into account or not inclusium, and the popular party has decided to abstain from this proposal. It is true, the Popular Party thinks it would be better to introduce a bill of law, but the Government did not decide it, and in the end both parties introduced a legal proposition. Today, as I said, we discussed the consideration of the proposed law in relation to the amendment of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act 2008 but amended in 2011. Modified in 2011 through the votes of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. A law that, by the way, some are claiming here today when in its time they voted radically against such a change. This group would have preferred to proceed with this amendment through a bill. Obviously, we are faced with an initiative, a major change, a priority, and we would therefore have considered that formula more timely. In this respect, we do believe, Mr Lehendakari, that a responsibility and the commitments made in the legislative timetable itself have been abandoned. On the other hand, this initiative is based on the approaches and proposals already presented to us by the Counsellor in a specific document in May 2017. We therefore believe that there would have been plenty of time for this Government to have submitted the relevant and the committed bill. We believe that this proposal for a law presents an ambiguous, confusing, faracious, insufficient and absolutely imprecise text, with 64 regulatory referrals. I have to say that, throughout this year, since the presentation of this initiative on 27 April 2018, kontaktuak eta harremanak eskasak izan say it. There has been no progress, no contact with the People's Party. They've been scarce. Maybe... Perhaps not, I believe that there have been a lot more contacts with some group which today, precisely, has been opposed to the handling of this initiative, this proposal for a law. But at this moment, as we already consider appropriate in the last parliamentary term, this party considers it appropriate to open this debate already. The debate on income-guarantee reform, the protection system in Euskadi and Lanbide. But this group, the People's Group, is calling for reform in a certain direction, and I want to say that we do not like the proposal that has been put forward and it is not going in the right direction at all. And we also have to say, Mr Lehendakari, that everything here is not worth it. Consensus with each other is not going to be possible. You will have to choose, because the model of social protection that the People's Party defends has nothing to do with the model that here today, and throughout this whole legislature and in past legislatures, of course, has defended EH Bildu. Therefore, you will have to choose which path you want to follow and whom you choose to follow that path. This Government needs to know that we are going to present our alternative proposal, with concrete proposals because we do not like its proposal. I think that's already known. We believe that the current regulation, the model of protection in Euskadi, has many shortcomings that make Lanbide an absolutely inefficient service as well. We want a fair support system to be set up, with the system being the one that has to be set up. We want the aim of the protection system in the Basque Country to be the employability of people receiving social assistance; and, in this sense, the protection system, the GIR, is not an end, it is a means for the employment of people who are in it. We want, once and for all, to put an end to the disincentive effect that GIR has in many cases in seeking employment and that leads to this benefit becoming a way of life. We want to design personalized itineraries, plans according to the characteristics of each person, face-to-face and evaluable, the so-called social guarantee, so that the recipients of the RGI receive these face-to-face programs and are evaluated. We want to see a solution once and for all to the many shortcomings in the management of social aid, and we want, of course, to see an increase in the control of situations in order to detect persistent irregular and fraudulent situations, which, by the way, we do not know in many cases what they are because they are unfortunately not detected. These were the challenges, Mr Lehendakari, or are the challenges of your Government: the Lanbide reform and the reform of the GIR. And after three years of the legislature, neither one of them has started. That is why we say that this government has lacked ambition, courage, in addressing a thorough reform. It could have done so with a bill and could have done so by the two groups that support the Government in this bill, which they have not done, and have missed an opportunity. The People's Party is going to present you with concrete proposals and we hope that this Parliament and the groups that are represented in this House will look at them very carefully. We will therefore put forward the necessary changes to set up a system of fair protection, a genuine system of fair protection and social aid – fair, effective and efficient – and, as I have said before, to aim at employability and, of course, to live up to the expectations of the Basque citizens, of a solidarity society that makes an effort with those who need it most. And so, in the system you have to be those who really need it, and the system has to get those people to have a chance in their lives and get into the labour market. And I, having said that, also wanted to take advantage to wish Mrs Arregi the best. Over these 10 years, which we have also shared the 10 years, I believe it has been easy to reach agreement and it has also been easy when we disagreed, because I believe that if there is one thing or question that characterizes Mrs Arregi it is that she says the clear things. And I believe that that has also greatly facilitated the agreement and the disagreement. She has been a good companion and, in that sense, I wish her the best in her new walk. Just be safe and be lucky in your new career. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u85	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Number of points in theme list: "The dispensation of the World, Land Planets, and Housing Committee, made on the establishment of great commercial settlements, a bill of law. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board are willing to present the judgment? No. So, we're going to the teams and Mrs. lópez, representing the Potula team? He mustn't speak. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera? Not even. Together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Garcia? No. EH Bildu, Casanova jauna? Explanation of vote Euzko Abertzaleak, Yellow Grajales? Explanation of vote [[Berber]] There has been no discussion and we will vote: the article of judgment, says the explanation and the name of the law. I have to tell you, at the last moment, there's been a technical correction. It's already involved. So, we vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u86	So that the Law of the Institutions of the Great Confederations is approved. Now, we're going to vote, and the agent of the Basque Potula team, Mrs López de Ocarariz, is your word. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the commercial sector, Government. From the People's Group we are satisfied because today, June 27, 2019, we have passed the Law on Territorial Planning of Large Commercial Establishments. And it's not a little bit. As stated in the third final provision of this law, it will enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, which will be shortly. If a year ago – and let's remember the debate of June 14, 2018 in this House – we are told that today, June 27, 2019, we would be at this stage, with a law of territorial planning of large commercial establishments approved unanimously – and I believe that with broad support from the sector – we would have said it was utopia. The prerequisites to this reality and not utopia – because it has already been implemented – is that the judicial ruling of September 2015 nullifies the determinations that were contained in the Territorial Sectoral Plan for the Public Creation of Soil for Economic Activities and Commercial Equipment, which imposed limitations on the maximum surface area for commercial equipment. The judgment stated that any restriction or restriction on the establishment of large commercial establishments must be sufficiently motivated by a rule of law. Secondly, it said that the introduction of superficial restrictions on implementation cannot be due to purely commercial and commercial reasons, which as such are prohibited by the European Services Directive, 123/2006, and also by Law 17/2009, on free access to and the exercise of activities and services. Thirdly, and no less important, he said that such restrictions must observe the triple condition of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality. With these limbs, it was clear, since 3 September 2015, that in order to comply with the sentence it was and is essential to adopt a legal text from the perspective of the planning of the territory. And here we are, with the kind cooperation of all of you, for we have just approved – as I told you – the Law on Territorial Planning of Large Commercial Establishments. It seems easy to say so, but the work has been intense. The Government had not yet understood that it was essential to adopt a legal text. It was the association of traders Euskaldendak that already at the beginning of this legislature told us about the need to amend the Law on Commercial Activity, which was the law that we had, specifically article 13, the establishment of large commercial establishments. And already a year ago, on 14 June, as I said to you, in this House, in the compromise amendment that was signed, we approved the Government's initiation of this amendment. After the time and the Government was asked in December about this amendment, we saw that there was a willingness to make a law, but that the Government's procedure and the deadlines announced to us could be extended excessively, so long as it did not come to pass in this legislature. What encouraged us and forced us to present the text drawn up by Euskaldendak as a legislative proposal to arrive at a text that would lead us to the initial objective: to draw up a legal text with sufficient legal guarantees, to determine the general legal framework for the establishment and, where appropriate, the extension of large commercial establishments of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in accordance with the European Directive and also, as I have said to you, with Law 17/2009, of free access to and the exercise of service activities. And the establishment or expansion of these large commercial establishments will be the subject of specific territorial and urban planning, depending on the impact on the urban and natural environment. The government had and has maintained a constructive attitude and, in what could be a threat – a clamp, was sometimes called – saw an opportunity. And from that opportunity that the Government saw, we are in this situation. From the People's Group we already announced in the interpellation that it was the possibility. The possibility was a proposal for a law to speed up the procedure. And from December to today, that we have passed this law, as I said, because we are satisfied, I think not exultant, but satisfied. We have all left things in the tinker to save the important, and of course we must keep an eye on how the law evolves. The municipalities, in their action, also have a lot of important things to contribute and collaborate in the development of the urban centers and their surroundings. It's not all done. But it is true that this law represents a step forward in terms of commercial urban planning in Euskadi. And I am glad that it is recognized by Euskaldendak, by his promoters, as the best we have ever had for the defense of small urban trade. And this has been possible thanks to the association or Confederation of associations of traders, hoteliers and service companies of Euskadi. Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the Department of Territorial Planning and Mrs Corcuera, who has been the spokesperson on this occasion, for her work and her inconveniences, which have led us here; Mr Grajales, who has recently joined, for noddling in everything that Mrs Corcuera proposed and said. To thank the team of experts who have brought us their knowledge, their experience in drafting a complex text and with sufficient guarantees. Let's hope that's enough. Also, thank the co-participants of this initiative and especially their spokespersons, Mrs García and Mr Casanova. At the table of the House and the Commission's lawyer, Mr Pagazaurtundua, who has made every effort to get this initiative on the agenda today. And finally, and not because they are the least important, the People's Group, because they are magnificent collaborators and companions, and they have endured some unpleasant situations for those who dedicate themselves to putting Chinese on the road. I will keep them in my prayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u88	Thank you. [[Applause]] Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u89	Thank you, President. It is how good the prayer has, that some have prayers and others do not, unfortunately. Well, today the Basque socialists arrived at this rostrum with the satisfaction of having fulfilled the objective of having a law of territorial planning of large commercial establishments of immediate effectiveness after its publication in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. A little over a month ago, the Socialists pointed out that a rule of legal rank was needed which, in accordance with the requirements of European and State law, and the doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Supreme Court, would ensure, on a sufficiently reasoned basis, the restrictions on the establishment and expansion of large commercial establishments, that those restrictions did not comply with exclusively commercial and commercial reasons, and that the restrictions observed the triple condition of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality. But we weren't worth any legal text. We needed a general legal framework for the establishment and possible expansion of large commercial establishments; a framework based on a number of general principles: the freedom of enterprise guaranteed by the Constitution, the freedom of establishment enshrined in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union – which does not allow more quantitative or territorial limitations than those based on compelling reasons of general interest –, urban and sustainable territorial development, and the principle of inter-administrative coordination. And if today we have a legal text for the management of large commercial establishments, with legal guarantees in front of possible resources, in record time, it is due, among other things, to the previous work carried out by the Basque Government, with the advance of the revision of the modification of the Territorial Sectoral Plan of Public Creation of Soil for Economic Activities and Commercial Equipment as regards the large commercial centres, and with the commission – also in November – to Mr Juan Ramón Fernández Torres of a legal text for the territorial regulation of these large commercial establishments. A work, a legal text, that has been and that is a magnificent work, that has served as a guide to the political part – at least as far as I am concerned – for the documentation that accompanied it and for the legal justification of each of the criteria that were manifested in that legal text. And I said this at the time, the Socialists wanted a legal regulation of large commercial establishments from the area of territorial planning and that it would retain the spirit of consensus of the 2004 PTS on the model of commercial activity in our cities and in our peoples. A legal regulation that protected trade...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u90	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u91	Thank you, President. A legal regulation that protected the proximity trade with the necessary adaptations to the existing legal and jurisprudence framework, that promoted the territorial balance of economic activity involving the establishment and expansion of large commercial establishments, and that also had maximum legal guarantees for the Administration and the municipalities that must base, from now on, their decisions and their licenses on this legal text. One of the keys to the agreement reached was the formation of the group of three experts who, from their experience and professionalism in the legal, urban and even teaching fields, worked the technical weakness of a consensus text from very diverse, almost antagonistic positions and experiences, and the acceptance of that text as a basis of work by parliamentary groups. And there have been few difficulties that we have encountered in this process. The Basque Socialists thank all those people and entities who have participated with their contributions and appearances. My sincere thanks go to Mr. Juan Ramón Fernández Torres, Mr. Iñigo Maguregi Salas and Mr. Juan María Arrue Salazar, who have composed this technical committee of experts who, not without difficulty too, offered to the parliamentary groups a technical text of agreement, of consensus, without which today – I am at least convinced – we could not have had the law that has been adopted unanimously. A very important law, a necessary and well-supported law. I also thank the Basque Government, and allow me to personalise in the Councillor for Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing, Mr Arriola, his willingness from the minute one to promote as many actions from the Basque Government as possible to achieve consensus, to achieve parliamentary agreements. Thank you, counselor. And also for the serious and rigorous work that has been done by that department and for the dedication, too, of the Deputy Territorial Planning Advisor, Arantza Leturiondo, who has been in the day-to-day of this matter, and I would say more, in the minute-to-minute to endorse a political agreement and turn it into an important agreement today, into an important parliamentary agreement. Finally, I would also like to thank the technical and legal services of this Parliament. And I thank all the parliamentary groups for their willingness to dialogue, moreover, since February – if I remember correctly – that we started this long journey, their non-retrofitting in maximalist positions that would have prevented consensus and agreement, and also for their political and parliamentary work, which has allowed us to gradually overcome, obstacle to obstacle, many of those stones that we have found on the way. Thanks to the groups because they have enabled us to comply with the objective of having a law on the territorial management of large commercial establishments very good technically, very secure legally and I hope that very effective for the whole commercial sector that so far operated in a deregulated way as far as large commercial establishments are concerned. That is why we voted in favour of this territorial planning law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u93	Good noon, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Today, after months of work and negotiations, we have adopted, with the consensus of all the forces represented in this House, a new law on the territorial planning of large commercial establishments. From Elkarrekin We can positively appreciate the agreed text, the fundamental objective of which is to establish limitations on the location and size of large commercial areas on the periphery of the Basque municipalities. In addition, this new law will serve both to limit the expansion of the large shopping centres that already exist in our territories, and not to proliferate or build larger projects such as those of Hondarribia, those of Belartza, those of Garbera, those of Zaldunborda, etc. We believe that the establishment of large, uncontrolled and indiscriminate commercial establishments is contrary to the general interest of society. Not only because it does not favour proximity trade and fosters a precarious and low-quality employment model, but mainly because the impact of these large commercial areas directly affects the economic, social and environmental sustainability of the municipalities where they are built, expanded or implemented. The new rule that we have adopted today was and is a demand of the different players in the commercial sector, and it defends the rights of local trade, in addition to taking into account the protection of natural spaces and the rural environment, because it is a matter of avoiding, as much as possible, the construction of new roads, as well as the increase in forced displacement by car and the commercial desertification of urban areas that often causes. For Elkarrekin Podemos it is essential to defend urban trade that is sustainable at urban, environmental and economic level, so while it is a law that responds to specific problems that have not been resolved for a long time, we must continue to work and promote measures that also guarantee the protection and improvement of urban business environments, especially in historic centres. There are, therefore, many more challenges to be addressed in the commercial sector and we will continue to work from our parliamentary group to try to resolve them. But it must be remembered that it was we who registered, together with the opposition groups, an initiative in December in the face of the inaction of the Government and the parties that support it in order to address the existing legal vacuum. It should be remembered that we have had no legal limit for more than three years to restrict the opening and expansion of large commercial establishments, thus creating legal uncertainty. This new law deepens the need to regulate the distribution of commercial supply, taking as a reference five criteria: proper spatial planning, the need for transport and infrastructure planning, the protection of the environment, the need to ensure the accessibility of the entire population and, of course, the need to revitalize the urban fabric. Furthermore, this law complies with all the constraints established by the European Union and, with regard to the legal guarantee, we believe that we have done everything possible during this process of negotiation and drafting the law itself in order to do so. In short, thanks to the opposition groups and the Elkarrekin Podemos initiative, we have succeeded in bringing forward a consensus rule that will limit the establishment of large shopping centres and protect local trade, as well as environmental sustainability. And, of course, the prototype of a large shopping centre on the outskirts of the urban centres in Euskadi – as we have several examples of Gorbeia in Álava, Max Center in Bizkaia or Garbera itself in Gipuzkoa – will in no case, with this new law, be the model to follow within the commercial sector. And at the last minute that seems to be that of thanks, I would like of course to thank the other women parliamentarians of other groups, because this text, the best possible, is a small step and part of its importance – for our group – is that we have reached that consensus; because having reached an agreement unanimously, we make this law stronger and, of course, more secure when it comes to applying it. Of course, I would also like to thank some parliamentarians for their courage despite the pressures and interests found within the sector, and thanks to the work carried out by associations of traders such as Euskaldendak, because their momentum has been necessary, and without them this law would not have been possible. We will continue, in any case, working, we will continue to fight, because today it is time to celebrate for a while, although we must remain vigilant and vigilant because we have a lot of work to do. Thanks for the Milla.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u95	Good noon, everyone. Well, as I was almost one of the last to speak on an issue where there is more or less agreement – there is agreement in the vote and in much of the spirit – I thought it would be very difficult for me to be original, to look for a quote or some reference that someone had not spoken before. And I said, well, I'm going to quote myself, because I'm sure no one gives me soap and quotes me. Then Mrs Arregi quoted me as changing some things but, well, she took me to the point of originality that. Pero decíamos ayer, más concretamente en marzo de 2016: "If we are all sure in this legislature that it is possible to limit the establishment of new departments according to circumstances relating to the halgument and the arrangement of the country, it is time for us to do this, and the breach in the law at this moment. When the safeguard that prevented the establishment without any restriction of commercial centres disappeared, concrete projects began to flourish as mushrooms that would have filled our entire territory, especially some territories such as Gipuzkoa, of new large commercial centres creating a major problem, not only in the trade sector, but also in the area of territorial planning, transport, environment, etc. We said: We think we have to close that door that's open. And today we can say with joy that we closed that door. And it's good to be happy. I won't let you thank me for the end. Because I believe that in this law, and in these discourses of this day, gratitude has special places. It's really grateful to you for the attitude of a lot of people and collective people. First of all, the legal services of this Chamber. It is said that soldiers are given medals beyond duty, and I believe that the legal services have been compromised beyond duty, and that they have contributed much to it. Of course, all trade companies. The other teams and bearers of groups, and especially those who have contributed to this project from opposition and made it possible. That's a good one, aipatu lehen in a teknikoari batzor. Baina beraziki lege hau possabile egin duen taldeari, Euskaldendak taldeari. She was acting in no fashion, esan niolako aipatuko nuela, aipatu behar dut Amador Viteriren wool. A person who can generate confusion, because he surrounds so much with such a mantle of passion that he may sometimes not let see the deep technical knowledge that he has about these issues that we are talking about, and without whose passion and knowledge we would hardly be here today. What did we get today? We've managed not to set up any great commerce in the Peripherian. These classic tracts of commerce have been mentioned before, Garbera, Max Center... Peferian Only Commercio singular We can't solve all the problems that trade has, or all the problems that are in the country's organisation. We cannot repair the liberty of setting up great stalls in the towns, because we meet and meet again with the European legislation and at the moment because we have not found the means to overcome it. We haven't found a legal handle in cities to make restrictions. But we're still working and we think we might find them. We have reached this law through an agreement, in which we have included the groups that support the Government. Of course, this law would not be passed, it would not exist if the initiative had not been taken – as I said earlier – by the Euskaldendak collective and opposition groups, we would not have brought it here. Following the negotiation and dialogue with the Government, it would be logical to say that we have had to lower some of our expectations. And that's right, that's what happened. But we have also incorporated positive things, for the simple reason that not all reason and not all knowledge is always on our side. And we have also been able to incorporate that part of reason and that part of knowledge that was outside our group or outside the promoters' groups. And, therefore, I believe that, frankly, the law adopted today is, in general terms, better than that which was presented in December, mainly in reference to the change in structure and other elements that have given it greater precision and legal certainty; which does not mean that the previous one did not have it, but it is better. Still, there are some specific aspects in which, as a result of this necessary agreement that we have sought to give more strength to this law, we have yielded. We would have liked to further restrict the number of meters from which a large shopping center is considered to make this type of implementation even more difficult. We would have liked to look for more restrictions on implementation in industrial polygons as well, and I will not go into technical matters. We would have liked a law perhaps somewhat more demanding, but we can conform, because this law, in addition to its intrinsic quality, has the added value of the agreement, of being a shared heritage and of – I understand – receiving from now on the support and unanimous protection of the groups present in this House. I'd like to ask for consistency with what we've signed today in the future. This law, like all laws, will certainly have some gap, and I ask the existing groups not to search in the councils for the openings, but the philosophy of this law, in order to be able to appreciate the principles of this law, and to try to defend ourselves from other institutions. My first meeting as a parliamentarian – and I am not leaving, but I can also tell you an anecdote – was precisely with the Euskaldendak group and we were talking about the expansion of hours through the creation of areas of great tourist influx, and a platform had been created. I had been here for a few days in Parliament and, well, there I was thrown at this first meeting. Already at that meeting, in 2014 they said, "We have to change the Business Act, we have to close a gap that we have there, a gap that we have there that can create problems for us." It was not covered by the government at the time, it created the problems for us, but today, fortunately – at least in reference to the establishment of large shopping centres on the periphery – we have closed it. Thanks to you, it was possible, and from now on, with this subject and any other subject, you have our integrity to make our way together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u96	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. And you've got the Eugotarians, Mr. Geaters, that's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief departments, ladies and gentlemen of the congress, guests, all good days. I take the floor last, by turn and probably also because I was the last to have come to this debate, to this Commission, to this working group, in short, to this procedure, which for me has lasted only 15 days. Fifteen days when those of the trade have somehow transmuted into planners at lightning speed and by the time we want to realize we're here. In previous debates this morning, I have heard Mr Martínez complain about the express handling of the Police Act, which has lasted more than a year. I have heard Mr Estarrona complain about the limitation of the Rules of Procedure, the inadequacy of bringing one, the other or limiting it to a single day. And you know who came to mind? Do you like movies? Roy Batty. Remember Roy Batty, Blade Runner's replicator I've seen things you wouldn't believe. I have not seen ships, I have not seen lightning, but I have seen the regulation stretched to Orion; I have discussed an opinion after passing by committee on the same day of the approval plenary and beyond the Tannhäuser Gate. I have seen those same amendments arrive five minutes before the debate began by e-mail and with the debate started on paper. Screen! And all this, as Mrs López de Ocariz has said, formal, formal and unchallenged, for which one is of the PNV, disciplined and fulfilling when he gives the word. So I'm not going to repeat what we said at the time to appreciate the transfer of the law, the attitude of the departmental department. But I must then remember the principles which we established for this law, namely, the necessity of balance, of rule, and of legal security. And since we think that these three ends have been fulfilled, we have now agreed to the text. During these days it was clear, you tell me, that the report we had prepared was much stronger than the one we voted for at the time, and that it was clear that the agreements were available whenever we wanted to. So I want to thank you, too. I'd like to thank all the spokesmen who made the deal possible, and especially Mrs. Corcuera, as some one else has said. Because here we are all putting on the medallion, I am not going to do it, but the true grinder of this text – and it must be acknowledged – of this text that we are submitting today to the consideration of your ladies and gentlemen, was Mrs Corcuera. And I also want to refer to the lawyer, Mr Pagazaurtundua, with names and surnames, because we also have to recognize that these days we have brought him through the path of bitterness. We've done wrong, too, and we have to recognize it. Failure to count on municipalities and their representatives in a law that directly affects their municipalities is unforgivable. It's unforgivable. I'll take the part that touches me, I'll take it. On the other hand, I also believe – Mr Casanova said – that while we are taking a step forward, I have the feeling that in this House we have not just defined how to help small trade, we have not really defined what challenges it faces today. And I believe that this measure will make it difficult to implement new large areas, in what has allowed us to manage the territory, but that, for example, this law will not create new jobs. This law will help not to occupy new spaces, but I am very afraid that it will not help to regenerate so many throughout this country and that they need it so much. We want, we need, we need, a balanced and strong trade, capable of providing quality employment in a changing society, which gives life to our streets and helps to regenerate and revitalize our towns and cities. But, for better or worse, I fear that this law will not influence people's new uses when it comes to dealing with trade, their leisure time, new ways of buying and selling. I get the feeling that sometimes in this house we kill the flies by cannons, but, if it's any use, no matter what, I give it for good. Welcome. And Mrs. Argrei has already begun her journey, but as we are traveling, I also want to tell her later. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u98	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The discussion has ended, and at this time I interrupt the whole meeting until four o'clock. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-five. The meeting resumed at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u99	The seventh point on the theme list: "To discuss these causes at once, and to take up the resolution once and for all: "Modality, introduced by Ubeka Ubera Aranz and the members of the EH Collectors, concerning the judicial inquiry on the Public Acquisition of Osa. "Motion, Cristina Macazaga Sáenz, a member of the Society of Podemos, presented with the question of aiding justice when it is called Exodus. It's your turn, Mrs. Ubera, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u100	Good afternoon, everyone. Well, if we all wake up a little bit, we'll wake up the government's position. So far, since the trial of the Public Off-Advocacy Accidents was over, we've tried objective data, proof of the need and need of investigation. But we didn't succeed in persuading you to change the state of the government's attitude and behavior, and still less, to that end. There is no one so blind as not to see, Mrs. Murga. But the sadest and hardest of all is that the sects who support the government have not fulfilled their motion almost a year ago, though you say you keep it. But it didn't work out, not even a protected point. One. The government has not dedicated any solidarity and protection to the injured. On the contrary, the government has introduced itself as harmed, maybe there's the key, isn't it? , what is understood as damaged. Two. You know, I didn't think you'd want to know what to do with it. Three. He has not sent all the information to the prosecutors and the courts, and still less the facts which were proved by irregularity. Very serious, Mrs. Murga. And four. It's just fun that didn't stop all the categories that are suspicious. And I can continue to examine and estimate every point, but in a year nothing has changed. Only when the Government saw that it was forced, the Government of the Urcullus moved, and tried to cut the fire with the change in the face of the Health Department, without making any alteration in it. That's what you're doing, put an idea into society. But reality is being overridden to the government's oasis, which is already unbearable, for a system which has long been inexorable, because it is destroying the system of Osarism. Remember the Merino case Margüello. So, how long does the government have to go on like this without changing anything like that? What happens to change your behavior? Is that your ethical floor? The ethical ground of this government is that of those who seek to investigate, who wish to act with transparency, who seek to work with justice, to diminish and to shit. That's the ethical floor of this government. Why, Mrs. Murga? Why? Maybe your office and office manager's office, because the petty charges are kidnapped? And because they are really the rulers of the Osala? Or because your government wants to maintain the network. Consequently, your only aim is to establish an idea in society, to believe your lies, and to establish them in society. It's true, it's worked for you so far. "Danacol funciona," o no sé, maybe el pajarito el que funziana. It's not just in Spain or Navarro, we have an EAE regime. From time to time you lie in the law, showing your head to be victims, poor people, all the rest of you representing the vultures, the cunning ones, the cruel ones, when we ask only to investigate, to play with transparency and be careful. But no, you continue to deny reality and above all to maintain reality. When there were more than enough elements to take far more forceful action than the defence over the members of the courts and the attack on those who complained or denounced, which they continue to do, the sore honorability of the courts lies, Mrs. Murga, in those who denounce these practices, and the department has been launching messages for months, if at least threatening. And I still do. You're telling lies, because it's not true that you've committed the facts and all the documents to the legislature, because when October we had the chance to see the acrobats again, when you thought it was a closed investigation, you're sorry, you didn't have all the records, you didn't get the whole documents. And I'm still going on, without entering the actics, Mrs. Rojo Nikolai, because there's enough evidence in the actas to make a thorough investigation in all the categories. Especially in cardiology, for example, Osakidetza was already aware before taking the exams; in intensive medicine, in which a head of service shows his disformity and protest for not being a member of the court and you agree to introduce him as a member of the court; or neurosurgery, where the examination of VATP and deviation by centers is filtered; trauma, unofficial meetings; urology, anonymity is skipped with the guardianship of Osakidetza; microbiology, more than the same; digestive, deviation by centers and relationship between the examiner and those who approve; plastic surgery, an opponent, after taking the exam, withdraws from the OPE. And we can go on, we can go on, because all this can be read in the minutes that we have had at hand. And what do the department and Osakidetza do? For the minutes have been Olympically passed and have passed from the instruction that they themselves have done. And I still do. You're using the same arguments to open a file or close a file with a lack of seriousness and recklessness. For the instruction, for the Instructor, you choose a person who is art and is a part. And, further, his behaviour, proven by the audio, is enough to open an informative file to that official. Unacceptable is the voice of Madame de Comingreves from the public responsibilities, that is to say, it is very clear that the court-martial will not reach the courts and remain in the inner ranks. We don't know whether he had a will or a warrant. Was it an order, Mrs. Murga? It is shown by the fact that we have not sent all information to the courts, and that what has been sent by the division, that the supreme power, prepotence, and the feeling that this people are theirs, and can do whatever they please. The insolence you've had to appear as a victim, presenting yourself in court again and again as a victim. And that's the way you've been doing this all the time, Mrs. Murga. But it is true that hitherto all this has worked for you, and will probably still work for you. But that doesn't mean it's all right, that doesn't mean it's ethical and that you have reason, Mrs. Murga. Especially if you're a victim. You're not the victims, you're responsible. And there's no good or bad here. No. This is not a movie to label. We're not here to make friends, we're not here to play tricks on you. You are to govern, with all that concerns, and we are to oppose you. Control and promotion work, I don't know what you know. Maybe that's the key, it's in a democratic culture. Well, it's your turn to rule. And that doesn't mean to govern a cod, to fake, or even to take a few measures that would make it more difficult to discover irregularity in a future OPE, because perhaps you may be tempted to see what you saw. What we're asking is to do only what a government has to do. And it's no use to say that you've done it and that you've been listening to it and that you're doing it because they haven't shown it and they don't show it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u102	Thank you, ma'am, all the afternoons. Well, last week, knowing that Judge Yolanda Varona had had to request Osakidetza because she had not provided all the documentation to the Prosecutor's Office, we asked the counselor: "Does she intend to cooperate effectively with justice in the so-called 'case of the OPEs of Osakidetza'?". The truth is that the answer was more an accountability than what he had done during these months than a statement of intent, which is what we actually asked of him. She was very concerned that she did not have that conversation with Dr. Obieta and yet Mr. Erkoreka had already dated when it had occurred, 15 years ago. It is also difficult to believe that this conversation did not exist, when the Government spokesman himself went out and said that there was no criminal responsibility given the time elapsed. The truth is that it is obvious that they assume that leaks in OPEs exist and have existed, but they have difficulty admitting it, and I understand it. But what I do not understand, nor can I accept, is that the Government is making it difficult to investigate, concealing decisive audios and that, intentionally, neither in the transcripts nor in the reports are mentioned. And you can't deny that, because it's demonstrable. Written transcripts of statements taken by different Osakidetza professionals in Osakidetza's internal investigation following leak reports do not include all the data provided by witnesses. Moreover, the data that is avoided and that are of interest are always the most compromising or those that speak clearly of filtrations or directly of tongo. These data do not appear in Osakidetza's reports. Of course, the only excuse the government found was about massive information and I already showed that I was entering a flash drive. As I say, it is totally demonstrable that Osakidetza and the Department of Health have carried out insufficient collaboration with justice; I would say intentionally weak, but even without entering into personal assessments, insufficient. It was more important to preserve the name and image of Osakidetza, as the internal documents that form part of summary 301/2019 prove, than to demonstrate the leaks, and that is also the guideline that is taken throughout the instruction: see how this fraud does not affect the image of Osakidetza. It is also the argument used to attack the opposition when, of course, there was no defence or any argument to defend that there were no leaks and that it was an invention to discredit our public health system. Of course, it is for me who despised Osakidetza who works in a mafia way to place his own. For Elkarrekin Podemos are also great professionals all those who took a 0 in the anesthesia test and who, by the way, have been working temporarily for a long time in our hospitals. You in your work, for defending the image of Osakidetza, have endorsed corrupt behaviors, capping them so that they did not transcend. That's not working for the good name of Osakidetza and his professionals. After listening to different audios, it is observed how on several occasions Mr Balerdi and Mr Aparicio, commissioned by Osakidetza for the internal investigation of angiology, incited that the fact that the denunciation writing of Dr De Egaña had spread, had generated a great impact and a huge damage both to the process of the EPO and to the name, image and professionals of Osakidetza, not the screenings of exams, but the filtration of the complaint itself. A year ago, the previous adviser, Mr Darpón, insisted that if any action was demonstrated outside the established rules, the answer would be immediate and firm. At the time, the eight files were in progress and, of course, irregular proceedings were found and, I would say, in many cases, near the Mafia. What was done? Were they picked up on the file? No, no, Did they move to the D.A.'s office? No, no, Was there any immediate and firm response? No, no, Of course, what was done was to cover and hide. That was the initial and continuing strategy. On that occasion the counselor expressed the fulfilment of the commitments made, said that it would be investigated with rigour and transparency, said that if anomalies or signs of irregularities were demonstrated, the examinations would be repeated; a solution in suspense and that nothing would be resolved in view of the summary and the arbitrariness with which it was carried out. There are numerous audios with statements by different optinaries that speak clearly of tongo, or exams that seem like photocopies in other specialties, and it was concluded that there was nothing unusual. He said that the measures were taken by the courts after hearing reports that we now know were incomplete as trauma or urology. He said that if conduct that was liable to disciplinary action were demonstrated, it would be taken and no such action had been taken, except against a member of the court for conducting an interview with a media outlet. But, however, the meeting of the trauma court in a hotel, which has now created a schism among its own members, came to an early warning. And he said schism because in the statements of Osakidetza's instruction there was vendetta That information had Osakidetza and he never did anything. This, like so many other statements, remained within the domestic sphere. That's what the department calls everything they don't want it to go beyond, "the inside." At that appearance Mr. Darpón also said that they would cooperate with the Prosecutor's Office. They have not done so in their entirety or as expected from a responsible Government with an interest in resolving what has happened. For all this is what they continue to sell us with these arguments and this strategy designed by Mr Darpón, who had already resigned at the time and whom the lehendakari did not admit and yet had to resign months later. So in today's motion it is up to us to urge Osakidetza and the Department of Health to work with rigour, with rigour of truth, and to collaborate actively and with total transparency in resolving the leaks of 2016-2017. Believe me that hiding information from the Prosecutor's Office or providing records and reports with hidden data under corrective ink is not the best example of collaboration or transparency. So we're asking you to really start doing that and Mrs. Murga not to maintain the same attitude of wanting to cover up and the same speech that her predecessor had. And, of course, there's something we're worried about. What worries us, apart from the need that almost all the instructors have expressed in each of the interrogations for everything to be kept at the internal level, which does not go beyond, is that it has been attacked in the manner in which it has been done to the people they have denounced. Three people who are also professionals of Osakidetza but who seem to some members of the Government and the PNV are not worthy of the prestige they deserve. The intention to denounce them to the Prosecutor's Office by Osakidetza, instructors assuming as their own the argument of boycotters of the OPE to refer to the complainants; optionals such as Dr. Renedo – today accused – referring to one of them as "mouths", or Dr. Etxebarria, head of trauma service of the Alto Deba, who assured that everything would have been avoided if three disgraces of his hospital had not denounced – expression, by the way, celebrated with laughter by those present there, that is, instructors of Osakidetza–. By the way, a little gender training for the instructors who talk about Marta Macho as the girl and Roberto Sánchez as the doctor Sánchez. Also the attacks of a few weeks ago on Mrs.Obieta questioning her professionalism only with the desire to discredit her for her statements in an instruction. That is why the last point of our motion contains the apology by different members of the Government or Osakidetza to those and the professionals who have collaborated, who have collaborated so that the practice of doped EPAs will end, something that neither Osakidetza nor the Government had dared to do. You can't keep looking somewhere else. We have already warned that the emperor walked naked. It's time to put it on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u104	Good afternoon again. Chief department, congressmen. The irregularity of the public offer of Osaur, which we had known a year ago, could have been leaks, and now, as we all know, this case is in the courts. At the same time different cares have been cleared up, or the government has accepted them because their resignations are announced. We've known various reports this time, this long year. And we can also say that, as to the state of 'Eunk', he at first denied irregularity, which he tried to destroy, and finally had to make different decisions in front of the situation. More than a year ago we were aware of the irregularities in the OPE of Osakidetza 2016-2017, irregularities that pointed to the existence of possible leaks in the tests that were carried out. I will repeat myself in one of the arguments already used in the multiple interventions that we have had and that I have had on this issue throughout this year, that as we all know there have been many, in the alarm generated, in which in the end the expectation of many aspirants – 96,000 people who decided to access a square to Osakidetza – has been frustrated with this scandal. Responsibilities, political responsibilities have also been clarified. Because the case led to the government having to assume responsibilities in a scandal, as I have just said, of enormous magnitude and which affected and affects the credibility of a system which, by the way, was highly valued by all Basque citizens. Responsibilities that have been realized in the person of the Director General of Osakidetza, the Director of Human Resources and the Health Adviser himself. It must be said again, that there has never been a precedent in a scandal – and that also shows the scale of the scandal – of the assumption of so many responsibilities, in so many specific people in the department, such as the counselor, and in Osakidetza. We have been informed of various reports: the report of Ararteko, the psychometric analyses of the University of Oviedo, the report of Professor Rafael Jiménez Asensio, the complaint of the Prosecutor's Office, which resulted in all the investigation carried out at the investigating court. And from the People's Group – I repeat – we have criticized both the planning that was made at the time of the 2016-2017 OPE, and the management that has been made by the Basque Government of these irregularities. It must be said that at first the Government denied irregularities and the existence of possible leaks. They even threw balloons out, defending the cleansing of the whole selective process. Then, the irregularities were minimized and finally acted on, political responsibilities have been assumed, but it is true that those political responsibilities have been taken to oblivion of events and, of course, for the position that we have held here certain political groups. We therefore reiterate once again that late and bad action has been taken and that the Basque Government has been overtaken by the events themselves. I believe that our group has acted with the absolute responsibility it had for these facts, demanding the full clarification of these facts and reaching the end, until the assumption of political responsibilities that might correspond in their case, and it must be said that they corresponded. We have also repeatedly called for a radical change in the management of this public body with regard to human resources policy, taking the necessary measures. Now, as we all know, there's a judicial investigation going on. Some people have already been called as investigators, others as witnesses, and others will be called as investigators or witnesses, depending on the testimonies that are also taking place. We have confidence in the justice system, that it will be achieved to the end and that the criminal responsibilities that, if necessary, may also be cleared. We are investigating, ladies and gentlemen, allegedly criminal proceedings and we must have respect and confidence in the conduct of justice. This group, of course, wants to show it once again in this rostrum. We are not talking about mere administrative irregularities or that they remain at the administrative level. But, as I say, the courts will say what they have to say. We believe that the credibility of our very damaged system is at stake here, and it is the responsibility of this Government to clean it up and clear up any shadow of doubt that may fall on it, carrying out all the precise actions for that purpose. While we agree with one of the points put forward by the proposing groups and, of course, with the criticism of the management of this whole matter by the Basque Government, we consider it appropriate to present our own text. In this text we refer to the questioning of the performance, no longer only of the Department of Health and Osakidetza, but also of the Department of Public Governance and Self-Government, whose head is Mr Erkoreka here present, and of the VATP itself in the role it has played in the planning of the OPE. I would like to recall the words of the former Health Adviser, Mr Darpón, when he pointed out that he wanted a clean OPE and that for this reason he was talking about – or was already hiding in those same words – the intention to derive from VAT the performance of part of the tests. We must therefore also say that VATP has its responsibility. But, in any case, the courts will also say what is appropriate on this point. We would therefore like to continue to urge this Government to take the measures necessary for the full clarification of the facts, as well as to provide precise guarantees of transparency and impartiality in future targeted processes. We also want to see the organisational changes that are necessary in accordance with the results of the legal procedure under way between these measures. We have also urged the Basque Government, in view of the lack of diligence in the transmission of accurate information for the development of the ongoing judicial investigation, to adopt an absolute attitude of collaboration with the justice system. Here I want to make two points. The information is forwarded to the Office of the Prosecutor after the approval of the motion in the Chamber on 21 July 2008. It is not true, as has been said in this rostrum, that all information concerning the OPE reviews has been forwarded. "The Office of the Prosecutor has received from Osakidetza all documentation relating to the 2016-2017 OPE." These are the statements made to us by the lehendakari about also the answer he gave us in full control. But we have to say that it is not true that the Office of the Prosecutor has received all the documentation relating to OPE 2016-2017. We therefore consider it appropriate to urge the Basque Government to do so if it is required to do so as it has done in relation to the information that was initially submitted. At this point, we believe it is appropriate to defend our text. Of course, we believe that it is more in line with the reality of the moment, especially given that there is a judicial investigation under way. However, in some respects we can agree with the proposing groups, but in others we believe that our text is more appropriate. We will therefore be left with the text presented by the Group of the European People's Party. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u105	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u106	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. The last time we spoke in this plenary on this issue I was talking about a rosary of initiatives. And, indeed, one of the groups presenting this motion today has already announced its intention to continue with a marked plan. And the truth is, it's said and done. And worse, we believe that this rosary of initiatives will not end today. It is difficult to say something new, or something that can contribute to the debate, or that can be a starting point for agreeing between the different parliamentary groups, because the positions are the ones already known, the explanations we have heard, we have read them, we have listened to them, we have studied them, we have discussed them. The investigations, both the internal and the Office of the Prosecutor, continue their path and the discussions are repeated, and it seems that we will repeat them today as well. On many occasions, we seem to be talking about different facts and it is difficult to deal with a matter from two such contradictory perspectives, but the truth is that the chronology of the facts is one, although it is intended to count in another way. It seems that these two motions that bring us here today have as their background the written transcripts of the statements that were taken by members of the courts and opponents in the framework of the internal investigation, although today this rostrum has been used to talk about what was already being talked about a year ago. Listening to the two spokespersons, both Mrs Ubera and Mrs Macazaga, the first auguries are corroborated: to maintain such a serious and worrying matter that affects a large number of people, whatever happens, to explain what is explained, with one counselor or another, with a paper or without it. That is to say, it is of little or no use to what we are committed to in this Parliament, because even if we want to say otherwise, Mrs Ubera, the motion that we adopted a year ago is being carried out, point by point. We share what we said a few months ago: it is not worth making statements based on headlines and not subject to objective criteria. One cannot work around the worst, the better, and we should not continue in the eternal discussion without thinking about the professionals, taking into account the presentation, which, by the way, we decided to create among all. Since the opening minute of this matter, there was a clear goal on the part of some; while the clarification of the events should have prevailed, the launching of an improved procedure taking note of what had happened and, of course, not politicizing a judicial process, which is the only thing you have been doing for a year. In addition, as we said at the time, protecting Osakidetza as an institution, recognizing the work of public health system professionals and devoting all necessary resources to the more than 70,000 participants in these examinations, in particular, who could participate with the necessary guarantees, should be and is our main objective. Taking into account the points raised by the proposers, to say that when the department speaks of misconduct in this matter, it is to manipulate the facts, not to define it differently. Respecting the different views, as it cannot be otherwise, cannot be said of a lack of information on the part of the Government to the Office of the Prosecutor, and cannot be able to support this assertion, in addition to affirming an attempt to hinder the investigation of the courts. I'm going to try to set some dates on the calendar, not pretending to make an accountability, but a description of reality based on objective facts. 18 July 2018. Information sent by Mrs Múgica on her own initiative without being requested by the Office of the Prosecutor. 21 September. Ms. Múgica resubmits information to the Prosecutor's Office without being previously requested, including final reports and sociometric analyses of the four dossiers to which we have been referring for more than 12 months. 26 July 2018. Communication in relation to the events in the specialties of plastic surgery, aesthetic and repaired, also referred to own initiative. 3 December 2018. Various information is provided: the pre-agreement of the Health Sectoral Table signed on 23 June; the agreement of 16 January 2018 of the Health Sectoral Table, approving various criteria on the inclusion of places, allocation of destinations and the development of selective processes for the 2016-2017 OPE; the certificate of the minutes of the sectoral table meeting of 3 July 2018, corresponding to the transcription of the intervention of the trade unions present at that meeting in relation to the OPE; motions submitted by different parliamentary groups concerning the clarification of alleged irregularities, and the report of selective tests of the OPE 2016-2017. 21 December. Osakidetza is requested to provide the minutes of the meetings that would have been held by the anesthesiology, angiology and vascular surgery tribunal. 8 January 2019. Answer to request by the Director-General. 13 March 2019. Information is required and provided by referral to the court. I assume that these data, dates and reports will not be of any use to them, but the documentation provided at the initiative of the Government itself on some occasions, and on others at the request of the Office of the Prosecutor, is a reality that they want to recognize or not. So, what are we talking about? Has information been provided to the Office of the Prosecutor? Did he get in the way? Is there opacity? Or do you commit to the first sentence you said in the first intervention 12 months ago? Because what seems to be happening here is that you, no matter what you say, are still clinging now to a supposed conversation, or transcripts that we have also been able to hear from the groups that we are part of the government. And, of course, nothing has never been denied, either before, during, or after you present endless initiatives on this matter. On the other hand, we have already spoken, debated and voted on the possibility of paralysing or suspending examinations. We already know positions and, just as you have your opinion, you respect the opinion of those who do not think like you in this case. They bring initiatives to Parliament, they lose them and point. Not by bringing and bringing and bringing in, we're gonna end up changing our minds. Therefore, as I said in one of the debates, of the many that we have had, let us not simplify this matter between good and bad, between innocent and guilty, between responsible and victims, between defenders of public interests and the protectors of lobbyists or party interests, which is where they end up carrying out all the interventions. Therefore, and by making your motions on the table, we do not reject the conduct of the Department of Health because it has made different decisions, it has collaborated with this Parliament and its spokespersons and with justice. We're not going to ask the department to send the information to the D.A.'s office, because that's exactly what you've been doing since the first minute, and besides, I just turned it off. As far as the suspension of OPE resolution processes of specialist doctors is concerned, you already know our position and it has not been discussed for so long. We do not disapprove of the department's insufficient collaboration because it is to lack the truth and, moreover, they know it. Another thing is that in this matter they prefer to play without thinking about the real consequences of certain statements. We are not going to urge the department to work rigorously, to collaborate actively, because that is exactly what they are doing. With this, and as I said at the beginning, little new to add, little will to agree on what you have, and the intentions to perpetuate the discussion seem evident. And therefore, of course, trust that justice will act, sooner rather than later, and if someone has committed an irregularity or a crime, they will have to pay for it, whoever it is. And of course, I believe that my parliamentary group has never denied this. Besides, whoever has evidence comes to justice. You can't say this you knew, this you know and 30 years later it seems that this is hidden in the corridors of the Basque hospitals. But let us stop using this matter to keep a candle on that no longer hangs. We don't know what the next thread you're leaning on to bring in initiatives will be, but honestly, far from contributing, they're just tangled in this issue. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u107	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u108	Thank you, Mrs. President, and all of the afternoons. Well, once again we have this subject in this Chamber, and I think that since we've said it at first, there won't be much difference between what I'm saying to-day, as there hasn't been much difference in the way that you've already proposed it, now? We're clear that in the first place, the Basque Medical Department and the Hosamen have proved responsible for everything that had happened from the beginning, carefully and above all, in order to clear up everything that had happened, in order to ensure this public offer and to cooperate with all the other organizations and agents. All the members of the Parliament and the members of the legislature have been able to access all files, they have been accessible to us all, to examine them. All the information was also sent to the intermediary. All the information which had formerly been sent to the Court of Justice, to the Court of Justice, was given in the presence of public opinion with perfect clearness, and will be given. We believe, then, that in this sense, this subject which we are arguing over and over again, shows that a political interest is to be insisted upon by any excuse, and that this subject is to be placed upon the table. We've introduced a very simple correction. On the one hand, from what has just been said, we would ask him to continue to enjoy the fun of the company with other institutions and other operators; we would ask him to make the public offering with all his guarantees; but we required ourselves, this Chamber, to respect the principle of innocence. And why do we say that? For, as has been said, there is an inquiry, an inquiry, an instruction, and a court-martial. It's already running, it's still working, and this statement isn't over. And here some people seem to have heard what they say that certain people, workers for certain Osacists, are responsible for certain members of the community. They're guilty, first of all, and then let's find out later, let's make a show of the instructions, show them how they're guilty, how or what they've done or what they've done, but at first they're guilty. This is the first principle, and we must all respect it. The boarders, and the internal investigations made, have been mentioned here, since the news of what had happened, and the heads of the UFOs before, have done everything that lay within their jurisdiction, or their powers, by respecting the regulation of public administration, and using the prerogatives given within or within its limits, to explain what has happened. We cannot forget that there have been 86 procedures, and that the psychometric analysis of all these 86 processes was conducted and completed by the initiative of the medical department. Psychic analysis, studying data one by one. Then the information-detectives, the instructions, the declarations took place, passed through the members of the profession, the members of the profession, the lawyers, received the results, and this was recorded in the reports. And in these reports, we've all had a chance to get in or know what the contents of them were. After these analyses and conclusions, he spoke to the members of the jury, he commented on them, and several measures were taken. So, considering all these facts, we believe that Osarides and the Department of Health ran all the ways between their own rights and their responsibilities. And we can't forget that they were also working with the prosecutor. Mrs. Rojo mentioned how she got information, the day she was sent. That's exactly what we'd like to remark. He was sent when the examining magistrate asked for more information, or was sent when the prosecution asked for more information. I don't understand, or at least you haven't talked much about the medium you've introduced today. That's where you get a few points and we don't stick with them. You say, "que se repruba la actitud de insfucidi colaborción con la justica, al no ponerda la informio..." "Incuso se habla de que se ha intactado obstaculazar la justicia." They haven't argued it well enough. They have forgotten all that initial collaboration, all that collaboration that has been made once the instruction was in process. They also talk about continuing to work and collaborate to solve the leaks. One more time? It's just that you don't care what really happened, because you already have a sentence, you're both a judge and a party. We already know that there are leaks, what we don't know is who and how; for that is precisely what will have to be investigated to deduce that there have been leaks. We haven't denied leaks since the beginning. We never denied that. Another question is whether it has been proved or not, and this is precisely what distinguishes our planning and your planning, which is what you will not admit: That nothing can be said because anything is worth anything. And that, to arrive at these conclusions or conclusions, a process must be followed, and certain guarantees are to be considered, and amongst these guarantees there is the principle of innocence and the principle of respect. You've spoken "de trasladar todos los materiales" (... ) incluidas las máquinas correctoras y las memorys." "Perododes qué hablan en nombre de la instruora?" Did you talk to the investigator, and he told you it was necessary, or did you think that it was necessary to send him away?" You didn't explain. Then you've got your chance to explain. Why do you have to send those machines? If you have to send it, there's no problem. But, by the way, maybe he decides it's not necessary to examine what's in those machines. That's right, if you're asking it to be clear, they sent machines or exams, or they took the vans to the prosecutors or court, there's no problem doing that. At least we have no doubt. Gero –eta honetan bai gustatuko litzaidake pixka bat zuek ere bai zehaztea – berriro ere aipatu duzue "that the Basque government has to apologize for the demonstrations cast against the professionals and the Osakidetza". How is that possible when you're saying it over and over and over again, those people who've been over Osapics since a year ago, the whole mafioso system, the clientelar? Azkenik, esaten duzue: "that it cautiously suspends the processes of (...) except those of specialist doctor, pediatrician and extra-hospital family". Mrs. Ubera, this is cheating. It was four weeks ago that we had this discussion at the Medical Committee, the legal proposal on this subject. The same subject, to be precise, subject or demand, and you bring it back. Until the clarification and extraction of conclusions from what? You have already clarified the facts and drawn conclusions. Esist philraciones, vale. Demuéstrenlo, pruébélo. You said it's been a year since we started this affair. Where are these final proofs? Where are they? Where are there to say there were leaks? We have no evidence to tell you there were no leaks and we have no evidence that there was a leak to tell. We accept that. We admit that, but you do the same exercise on the other hand, and don't tell me sometimes something is said about it, because in these audios there are a lot of things to be heard. And I'll say this for me. I think it may be the best thing that has happened that these audios have been made public, because everybody has an opportunity to hear what is said, and everybody has a right to know the version of each. And when we oppose these versions, we have a much richer opinion about what has happened, because many things are said there. Many things are said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u109	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u110	Mrs Garrido, if you want we can vote for points, we have no problem. Mrs Red, I recommend and invite you to read all the minutes, all the documents and everything. And analyze it objectively and then we'll talk about it. Look, we've put the evidence and data on the table, all of us, all of you, all of you. I don't know if you've read the chips and you've read the documents. We've read the records that's been handed over to us. And, por cyto. Eta gero berak ebakiko of the zer den baliagarria eta zer ez. Gobernu baths beat the ardour of the bidaltzea dena. Instruktore batek erabaki behar du what is essential and what is not essential? And here, you have the data of all these evidence. And don't keep asking others all the time. And all you've done is hide and makeup. That's what you've been doing. And what's worse, trying to show you as a good management, you wanted to show that you play with transparency and try to explain it as an investigation. Like you did in Radio Basque today. That's your policy. As I said before, this is not the first time. It happened. And it seems that our infection in the Osatian seems to be tumore, virus, systems. Looks like it. And there are no brave doctors, and there seems to be no decent ones who can cure them. That's what happens. And, Mrs. Murga, you're a chardiologist, you have a chance to heal the heart of the Oscars. I don't know if you have any will for that. Because of what you've shown up so far, it seems like no. With objective data, just to find out what's done but watching the reacto. Because here you've been handling the press for years and not looking at the patient. And look at the picture too, Mr. Darpón, with a bunch of BEC tests. Of course, how do you think there's a problem? And if you don't think there's a problem, how are you gonna solve it? It's impossible. And that's what happens. And it's all said. And here everything has been said. And when you come with a proposition for the change of the OPE pattern, what credibility is it that you will not inquire into it and hide it? And when we saw that you didn't want the judge to cooperate with you, but did you interfere with justice? And worse, when we see you don't want honest health professionals for Osa. Yes, but those who wish to maintain their power and their immunity over the good name of Osar. So why do we need a health department? Mrs. Murga, what do you do if you don't want to take care of yourself at the head of the health department? That's the question. To conclude, two questions. One, today I will ask you – as I ask you is free – that in the turn of the reply you do not respond with the much-repeated response of the satisfaction surveys and the professionalism of the workers of Osakidetza. The only ones who question and question that professionalism are you. It is you when you defend a corrupt access system that, in order for it to work, you need to suspend and put notes close to 0 to most opponents who are not the chosen ones. Do you defend professionalism by defending a corrupt mode of access, which gives priority to one another and humiliates another? And to finish. The fire lit it by Mr. Darpón with lies and the bonfire grew out of control. Because, of course, one lie leads to the other, doesn't it, Mrs. Murga? And in that fire the appointments of Soto, Múgica and Mr. Darpón burned. That fire is only extinguished by truth and reparation through new policies. You'll know if you want to establish those new policies or if you're going to throw more firewood, more lies into that fire to keep it growing out of control.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u112	Mila esker, president anderea. Mrs Red, rosary of initiatives, I look forward to you bringing one to this Parliament, from OPE, from fracking Look, this morning I was listening to the radio and listening to the counselor, and whether or not the counselor said that phrase is the least important thing. Because Osakidetza's leaks are actually vox populi But as in 99.9% of your amendments, Mr Orbegozo, they continue to work. Keep working on what? To cover up, hide and maintain the law of silence? In what they have done so far, denying it and doing something that is undeniable? Keep denying it? Is that still working? Because that's what we've had so far. Obviously, if a year ago what came out of here had been fulfilled, we wouldn't be like this today. In Elkarrekin We don't want the department to continue collaborating. We want you to cooperate once and for all because the prosecution has been sent material. But we know you don't. And if not, Mrs. Red, you can listen to the investigating judge, but also to the decree of the Prosecutor's Office. It's just that they don't read it anyway. The audios, Mr Orbegozo, are published by a digital journal, eldiario.es It's hard for me to listen to the counselor on the radio saying she's working on a model that will end this practice. When you're interested in holding a second test, wrongly called practice. A proof that, in our bilateral meetings "Do you remember, Mrs. Murga, that she was not yet a counselor?" she defended with a cape and a sword. A test that has been shown to be the basis of the leaks. The image of Osakidetza. We believe that in order for the image of Osakidetza not to be negatively affected, what needs to be done is to clean it from corruption and stop covering them. The prestige cannot be based on public relations and marketing campaigns. Osakidetza's prestige is built by all those who work day by day in service to all citizens. All the people, the heads of service, the fixed and the non-fixed, who are many. People who don't get the chance to move to a structural square until a finger points at them. And that system doesn't give prestige, that system corrupts our public health system. And you're covering it up because you know it exists. And we're about to help him get out. The Osakidetza that you cover has professionals like Dr. Arrazua, who in his impetus because we believe that even if you draw a bad note in the theoretical you can approve with a perfect exam the practical, has come to leave pearls in the audios as – Mr. Orbegozo, listen to this one – "I have in my service perfect theoretics that are absolutely surgically killers. I've taken people from the O.R. so they don't kill." This has been said by a gentleman who is dedicated to being the head of service of Osakidetza. This person is the one who throws down Osakidetza's prestige. Not the people who denounce doped OPE, that you and I know exist. I think it's time to lift the blanket that's covered everything so far. And we have brought motions after motions, of course, for this to end. We wanted to lend a hand, first to Mr. Darpón and then to you, enjoy it. Because the amendment you are submitting, "keep cooperating...", "to comply with the motion...". To fulfill the motion? I mean, I got her in front of me. "The Basque Parliament urges the government to clarify with absolute transparency the irregularities detected in the OPE of Osakidetza for what it will carry out exhaustive analyses", which they love, "the content of the tests carried out and the elaboration of the tests of the VATP and, in particular, on the professionals to whom this body has contracted for the drafting of the questions". Audios have accurate evidence of what was going on. They were not deliberately sent to the Prosecutor's Office because what was not wanted was for the Prosecutor to see that decree he made. It was intended to prevent the judicialization and the internalization of everything, and to cover up and maintain that corrupt system that we maintain today. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to transfer any evidence to the Prosecutor's Office." I repeat, there has been no transfer of any evidence, biased information has been given, and that is what we complain about. That retahíla you've named, it did, but it didn't give it all. And what we wanted was absolute collaboration, because what we want is to work because Osakidetza doesn't have corrupt practices that you, you, you and I know exist. And I think it's time for it to cease to exist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. He won't say a word. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u114	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs Ubera and Mrs Macazaga, when you come to this rostrum, you don't care to talk about this than what we come to talk about, you come read, analyzed, worked and heard; because I have read the minutes, I have analyzed all the documentation and I have listened to the audios. Therefore, I do not lack respect for the performance of my work, which I believe anyone who knows me here in this House knows that I do not exactly characterize myself because I am touching my feet. Come on, that's already in defense of one. Therefore, I do not allow you, you or anyone else, to question the development I make of my work, nor with the OPEs, nor with anything, because, in the end, it seems to me that that comment is left. Having said that, the thing about presenting initiatives, Mrs Macazaga, of course they bring initiatives, is that I believe that you, or you, still do not understand the difference between a party that is part of a government, that has a specific job and the opposition parties. This Member of Parliament who speaks to you has been a member of the opposition for many years, and you can go to Parliament's website and see that I too presented many initiatives when I was part of the opposition. But that is not just the job of an opposition parliamentarian, it is to bring them in, try to negotiate them to win them and, above all, that what is approved in a parliamentary chamber serves to improve the lives of Basque citizens. And when I spoke of the rosary of initiatives, I do not get involved in presenting 20, 300 or 3,000, but you, who speak of the prestige of Osakidetza, are absolutely responsible for the despicion that is being created today on the street about the public health system. That is what I was talking about, but you can continue to present and present that this Member will read it, analyze it, listen to them and try to negotiate whenever you allow. On the subject of fuelling fire, I believe that here we are not the parties that support the government, but rather you yourselves, who are creating the bonfire, the bonfire and the bonfire. And I'll tell you more, I don't think you can come to a rostrum and talk about regime, threatening messages, acting mafia, corrupt compartments, contempt, threats... Because it is false, because we have all recognized the importance that this issue has had, and we all got to work, and that is why we agreed on seven out of eight points of a motion with you, even if you try to say that we do not comply. And speaking of what we read, the important thing about reading the minutes, analyzing the documents and listening to the audios, is to try to abstract oneself from the political party to which one represents and act objectively. Objectivity. So, let's not try to rely on certain statements made in the audios, because we could also come here with names and surnames, and say many of the things that are heard in those audios, and that, far from being supported by evidence that can go to a prosecutor's office and be a key evidence of crime, are comments from those of "well, I thought... well, evidence I don't have..., well, that was said..., that's what they say..., it looks like 30 years ago, but, man, evidence I don't have." And you know that neither one, nor two, nor three. But I will not be the one to put here names and surnames to those who are part of an internal instruction, because it seems neither responsible nor fair to me and it seems to me that this does not come to light. Here we are to improve the new model of OPE, which for that I think we had created a presentation. But the more I listen to you, I doubt what we do in that paper, if you don't believe it, if you despise that tool we created in each of your interventions, if you no longer know what to hold onto, if the last is a conversation that someone said they said. And then, if the counselor says "he didn't say it," it's that she's calling the lady who said it, and if not, the lady who said it will be calling the lady a liar, right? Look, you've taken this as a spear in which you want to sustain everything that has to do with the Department of Health. They had a clear goal, that first it was Mrs. Múgica, then it was Mr. Soto, flying at all times it was Mr. Darpón and now you don't know what to do. And in the meantime, there are the people who presented themselves to the opposition, who paralyze their lives in order to present themselves to those oppositions, that some go to that internal instruction with notes even of the race, because their professionalism is being questioned, and of those no one speaks. And it's profoundly unfair. And they're talking about frustration, Mrs. Garrido was talking about. Frustration? Frustration of those who carry out their work every day in the Basque hospitals and we are telling them that they seem to have been given the title in a stubble. By the way, professionals who care for each of the citizens of this Autonomous Community, from pediatricians to children, to those who operate in surgery. So, I think we should act with a little responsibility, with objectivity, and when you have no arguments, the argument is not to attack the government parties, pretending to say that we come here without the duties done. The subject is more than worked. I know memory records, memory reports, I know concrete statements with names and surnames. I don't know if I've ever known so much about anything. And I will tell you, Mrs Macazaga, and I conclude, Madam President, that indeed the opposition's work is of control over the government, of course. And you've known me since before you sat in that chair. And this MP brought an initiative, brought by you from society, to try to solve a health problem for Basque children. So don't accuse that parliamentarian of what she now says the opposition do and that when we were there we didn't, because she knows that's a lie. And, of course, what I am not going to allow is that the work you do, neither I as a health spokesman, in this case, nor anyone in my parliamentary group, is being questioned. Because like I said one day, the one behind the draw, Mrs. Macazaga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u115	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u116	Thanks again. Mrs. Ubera, proof, data? What did you put on the table? What did you put? "Tummore is systems." "There are no brave doctors, no good doctors to cure it." Check it out, check it out. Check it out. Then the rest of us are saying everything about professional members of Osa, against their prestige, etc., etc. "Tummore is systems." "There are no brave doctors, no good doctors to cure it." Shameful. I'm really sorry to say that, but it's really embarrassing. Badago pelikula bat, gastelaniaz Twelve men without mercy You told me, I don't know if it's because you were expecting it, not to do it in the policy and answer to the press, if you don't tell me this afternoon at the Sozimeter... Well, I'll tell you, but I'll be glad to tell you more than ever, because that's what really annoys you, because that's what really annoys you. In front of this catastrophist state of yours, because the people still have confidence in the public health system of euscal. Impatience, impatience, anxiety, or the anxiety you express in front of that rage, today's Sociometers... And I really wasn't going to tell you, but I'll say, and I won't forget that the elections are the real Sociometer, the results of the elections. Those are the real Sociometer. And it is true, I understand how to make her mad, I understand how to make her mad, but well. Our true model has these results. Nota 7,6 sobre 10 a la calidad de los servicios recibidos, 62%, mejor las listas de experimenta. - Valerie, perfect. On Tuesday, about what we talked about last Tuesday, there was an initiative, as it was agreed, that we take a middle and a note, and we have to improve it. But the other data: 93% believe euscal health systems work, or it works well or well. Five more points than five years ago, that is, it has a better perception of eupscal's health system. Eta % 6k uste du that works badly and very badly The most valued: professionalism of the healthcare staff – that which has obtained its place through a mafia system, corrupt, clientelar, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera –. Humanidad en el trato, installciones y equipamientos. You forget that after. When you have to discuss that, Mrs. Macazaga doesn't come. She comes alone when she's talking about what's said in the audios, I don't know what, what the other said, what's a mess, whatever it is, a little bit of a clientelaur corrupto. I really think that's the problem, because you can't stand it, even though you're trying to make this message, you can't really stand health training going on in the Eukadin and serving the people. Then, one more thing, I don't know why you think you're only reading the records, reading the reports, listening to the audio. How many audio are there? Thirty-one. We don't have any problems, published is 31. Didn't I find Ane Martin, the one you mentioned in interpelation, the one you're talking about in the same paragraph written by the journalist of a newspaper? I didn't find that, I didn't, but I had the chance to hear everybody else. But I think we'd like to remark today that our party is very worried, very worried, because we're dealing with something very serious. And you said in interpelation, not only threatening, but you mentioned that Murga chief of the Murga is a liar, you said he was a coward. Coward, you called the chief physician a liar. And based on what? When a person has said that in an audio, 15 years ago, he has said so, or as Mr. Erkoa explained, in what he said 15 years ago. And when he defends this, you tell him that he is defending himself, putting himself in the way of others, calling the other a liar, etc. Look, Mrs. Ubera, I think I'm working for the congressmen, like you said, or control them, and make you yell at me. But I think you're already spending a year on this subject, and not because we don't want to make things clear, but because things have to be done well and above all respect for the rights of others. I wanted to talk to you about something else, but seeing that I've run out of time, that's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u117	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the argument has ended, we'll vote for EH meeting and the half-correction that Podemos signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 28; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u118	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Then we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 8; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u119	So, it's not allowed to be the full correction of the Popula Party. And in the end, we vote for the Euscal Socialists and the Basque patriots all over the place that the teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 36; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u120	As equality is, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 36; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u121	So there's equality. You know we must leave him for the plenoble, but seeing when the next plenoe shall be, and we have done it at some other time, and so we shall make the Destruction to-day. We vote again. We vote again. We vote again. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 36; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u122	So since the equality is equal, the correction of the whole is cancelled. The eighth point in the subject list: "Modialus Barrius Barroja, a member of the Popula team, present in the state of the program in the Cultura ward. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Barrio, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u123	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselor, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Well, after this session so full of issues, so varied, so full of different issues, we're going to end a culture issue. We will try, through our motion, to place some duty on the Government to materialize its lines of culture for the coming months or for the coming years. In any case, the document we can draw, if we decide to vote in favour, will say so. And it is that this motion starts from the question that we had with Mr Zupiria on the 14th, when the Culture Adviser intervened after that question to ask him about the follow-up to the cultural plans of the Basque Government and to be able to know – and that was our intention – more concretely the intentions of the department to give impetus to the cultural instruments that we have on the table and on which we have also worked in this Parliament, in the committee, in the Basque Government, in relation to the instrument, the Kultura Auzolanean programme or plan. Two years had passed since Mr Zupiria's appearance on the Committee on Culture. It was where the strategic lines or working lines for the legislature were established and where he said that he was going to continue the Kultura Auzolanean plan although it was not enough, although he had to – and referring to the plan in particular – face some changes. He also spoke on some issues that integrated the plan, of reflections within the sector and especially within the department in relation to that plan. And that's why we're here, and that's why we raise that question. We know that the Government has been working and has been able to work on that development, but we wanted to see specific issues and we wanted to be explained to us in some way. The counselor spoke of a second phase of the Kultura Auzolanean plan, he spoke of four commitments, he also spoke of actions or programmes or cultural intentions that are planning, that is, a relationship of proposals that will have continuity over time. And that is why, since there is an intention, or there is a proposal on the table, we want to know them and we want the committee or parliamentary groups to be able to see them and we can know what that planning – cultural planning, strategic planning – is called what it is called, but we want to know what it is and how it materializes. From the four commitments he was talking about, of course, four commitments that are in relation to the instruments that we have or that society can have to work in cultural matters, which was inter-institutional cooperation within the Hakoba programme, in relation to the political and institutional issues of the parliaments, the municipalities, the Government. Well, he was part of one of those legs and those cultural planning commitments, we suppose the Basque Council of Culture, the element that is and that meets regularly and that also has to address those issues, which also integrates organs of the Administration and other personalities and part of the cultural sector, of course, in a work that would have to be important and interesting. The sectoral representation we were talking about the other day, which is a fundamental element in cultural matters: sectoral representation and that diversity. The other day we could talk about fragmentation – which is also true – but I would stay more with the word diversity. It is very heterogeneous, there are many sectors, there are many collectives and, of course, they must help, they must cooperate, they must cooperate with those issues that have to do with coordination, with the strategy. And well, what was part of one of the issues, perhaps of the first commitment that the Auzolane plan or programme that had at its inception, there by 2013, the Basque Observatory of Culture and its analyses and its proposals of a cultural nature. Well, to all that, we want to give it a concrete expression and that's why we had asked for the inquiry and then the motion. And I want to remind you that the Kultura Auzolan plan had to be an instrument and it was an instrument and was conceived as an instrument –after the Culture Plan that had previous Basque governments, or the Citizen's Contract for Culture that also had Patxi López's government, and wanted this program Kultura Auzolanean, to agree between public and private agents the strategic vision, action, priorities in relation to culture. And I have to remember – and I did the other day – but I do think it is good to remember those projects that are considered closed but that some are back to date. We were talking about the impulse to the Basque Observatory of Culture – as a reference of knowledge – we were talking about factories of creation, fiscal policies, financing channels, the Kulturklik project – the interactive project of Basque culture – we were talking about the ETB and the dissemination of cultural content from various sectors, the improvement of the routes of exhibition of contemporary Basque art, the dance archive, the plan for the protection of ethnographic heritage, the book, the creation of the Music Office, the subventional plans for theatre. We talked about many issues: the law of documents and archives – which did not stay in that first phase of Kultura Auzolanean, but it has to follow a phase because we also have pending the law of documentary heritage and archives – the Basque digital library of that time, maps of exhibition of creation spaces, etc. And some very important issues continued and continued, such as the plan for the promotion of culture, the presence and participation of women in culture, the rethinking of sectoral articulation, the presence of culture in the media, art and museums and art centres, the working conditions of the creators and the creators, a very important element that links with the creation factories and with the map and cartography of the creation spaces of the Basque Autonomous Community. Those are also open projects that we were quoting. But where were we going? That would be the question now and the intention of this parliamentary group. That is the purpose of the motion, where we continue. And that's why, in relation to the issues...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u124	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u125	Gracias, president. With regard to the issues that we discussed and discussed the other day by the Councillor and I, as there are many areas and sectors of culture. He referred to some and we want to see them shaped. And there are many, and we talk about them from time to time in our commissions or in our initiatives of letters, literature, reading, performing arts, visual arts, audiovisual arts, traditional culture, music, intangible heritage – which is something we have to define, well, we have to define it because we have a law, but we have to see how it is managed –, documentary heritage and archives – of which we still have a law pending in this Parliament. It is these issues that lead us to ask the Government and to urge the Government through our motion to present – because we want to have an instrument and a document to know where these lines of action of the Government are going to go – so that a follow-up and development document can be presented within three months, in the second phase of the Kultura Auzolanean instrument, describing the projects that the programme intends to address and the strategic lines in that second cultural phase. We consider it important, we also consider it strategic. The other day he also spoke about other strategic plans, other strategic phases and dates. In any case, within that which could be an evaluation or a point and followed, of that plan of Kultura Auzolanean, and in that second phase, we want to know the projects and have them defined so that we can also observe them, analyze them, control them, value them and also work in favor, and we will also see to what extent they are done with the sector. I, in connection with the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u126	Please be quiet. A congressman is talking.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u127	Thank you, President, again. With regard to the addendum amendment tabled by the EH Bildu Group, I agree with it. I mean, I think it was also part of Mr. Counsellor's own speech the other day in relation to those strategic lines. But in any case, I will abstain. I shall abstain from the amendment you have tabled. But, I say again, I will do it on a technical matter. Because if your amendment is voted on and you are tied, I do not know whether the same criterion will apply. In any case, I prefer to abstain, to control that my motion is passed because in that case, in three months' time, by the end of the summer, we will have the document that I have asked of the counselor and it will be easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u128	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The turn of the divisions of righteousness, the representative of the EH Collector, Lord Estarrona.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u129	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I'm out of my mind today. January 17th, 2017 in the Council of Government, 11th. It was accepted by the strategic plan that was to form the page of 'Muddy' at the legislation. And according to our agreements, it was 15 of these strategic plans. We were then concerned that this government did not place culture among its privileges, and that there was no strategic plan of culture among them. We've been working for fifteen years without any sub-structure of depth, and, as various cultured sectors claim, we've been forced to plan, design, and start at the length of the long term. In the different reports published by the Basque Office of Culture, several of the disturbing data have been recorded during the past few years. This shows the need for profound agreements, and the long-term strategy to define them, and thus it is received at several times. In the latest years, and in order to define them, in most cases, the new cultural artilisation of the strategic plan has been set up in advance by a process of intervention. And we believe it's time to design a stage plan for culture, which will establish a middle-term cultural policy from a popular view. That's why today's morning correction demands "let the bases present before the end of the year." But I'd like to remark that the creator, cultured industry, the organization, the intelligence, and the intervention of the agents is indispensable. We shouldn't have made any corrections at first, but I began to read the transcript of the interrogation, and, while I was reading this, some expressions of the Zpiria chief's having passed quite unawares. Transkripzioan irakurri daitekeen bezala, "the commitment to present to the Governing Council, before summer, a strategic plan called Kultura 2019-2022, which sets out the strategic lines of the actions that as a government we have to develop and promote in the different areas of our competence". These are the words of the Chief of the Spillerys. And we had a little surprise, or at least we had our mouths full because we didn't know about this until then. And on this account, therefore, we have made various contrasts with the various factors of culture. And as they didn't know this, they didn't ask a member of the Basque Council of Cultura and, it seems, the only one they know for a month is that the meeting called in June has been suspended for the time being, and they know very well why, as I said, it had been delayed until the 16th of September and Bocage. And the last that the members of the Basque Council of Culture know, dates from June 22, 2018, in which, within the framework of Kultura Auzolanean 2018-2019, it was requested that, if they had an interest in participating in any of the projects, they send some filled out forms. And then it was established that, with a longer deadline, another fact sheet was sent, in addition to this first one I mentioned, proposing new lines of work or projects. And if there's any doubt about it, contact the Basque Council secretary at Cultura. And that's supposed to be the last year on the Basque Council of Cultura. And, of course, it seems to us and to us the request made by Mr Barrio, since it is true that the government's action in cultural matters goes a little over the bush – or that is at least the perception we share – and it is difficult to perceive the lines of work that are being developed. But also, if we go to the website of the Department of Culture and to the own website that Kultura Auzolanean has – the star project in the matter or the plan of culture of this government – we find quite worrying the lack of updating it. The last follow-up report there is from Kultura Auzolanean of 2015, Mr Zupiria. The only thing that can be consulted is a relationship, a list of open and closed projects, which are open and which are closed, and we also do not know the degree of updating of that list. But let the law of documents and archives appear as closed. I repeat, the law of documents and archives appears on the department's own website as a closed and settled matter, as it already tells us everything. There are many sections whose last update dates from the first half of 2018 and we are entering the second half of 2019. So welcome is Mr Barrio's request in his proposal and to see if this kind of grudging government serves to sort out some of these issues in the department. But for us this is a consequence, it is nothing more than a reflection of what, in our view, is the lack of a strategic plan in cultural matters, with an absence of clear lines of action, which are well sequenced and with their respective assessments. It is a consequence of a lack of clear strategy, because many of the subjects that have been carried out in recent years are doing well – and we have appreciated it and said it without any kind of clipboard – for example: the organisation of grants, the optimisation of specific programmes as there have been, or the analysis of cultural sectors that has been carried out through the Basque Observatory of Culture. But we believe that over the past 15 years things have changed a lot, that the sector has also changed a lot, and it is time for the government to put the batteries in. And in this respect we have tabled the amendment adding to Mr Barrio's original initiative. And to put on the piles is not to present a document with a title that picks up the word "plan", that picks up the words "strategy" or that picks up what this Government considers, almost unilaterally, what is strategic. Putting the piles on, for us and for us, is to develop a process in which a shared basis is laid, on which the future strategic plan of this country's culture must be based. And it is not necessary to look too far because, as I said at the beginning of the intervention, it is several outside governments and nearby institutions that have carried out processes, where the channels of participation have been promoted and, moreover, very notoriously. If we are to see the action taken by the Government of Nafarroa in this regard, the document, the resolution initiating the procedure for a new strategic cultural plan, phase one and phase two consists of the definition of objectives, strategic lines and methodology of the strategic cultural plan of Navarre. Phase three deals with the holding of sectoral, cross-cutting and territorial working tables, as well as the necessary actions in this framework of participation. And in the same document, Mr Zupiria, you can observe a rather extensive picture, with numerous tables organized, with dates, concrete data, with specific themes. In Villava, House of Culture, we are going to talk about X, about Y in Sangüesa, about such, about cultural industries, gender focus on Navarra culture, culture and creativity in hybridization... And a whole process with channels of participation has been established and designed to design this plan, in a joint, consensual and participatory manner by the different cultural sectors. But what's more, once it is designed, it is established in this writing – in this foral order that initiates the procedure – that "after the holding of these tables, the draft of the Strategic Plan of Culture of Navarre will be drawn up and will proceed to its publication on the Open Government Portal for the collection of citizen contributions which, After its analysis and evaluation, the process of elaboration will be completed with the approval of the document final of the Strategic Plan of Culture of Navarre (2017-2023)". Therefore, as I said, I do not think we should look too far to see how things can be done and, in that sense, we have tabled the amendment today. And, as far as I am aware, it seems to me that the parties that support the Government, a government that has announced by the mouth of its adviser that in the autumn it has plans to present the lines and foundations of a strategic culture plan, and that it has already tied it up, because it seems that they are not going to vote favorably, in a favorable way, and that is something that we really do not understand what it can respond to. As I have said before, it is necessary to dissect a stage for culture, which will establish a long-term cultural policy, but its course will be lyrical if the founders, cultural industry, organizations, experts, and the intervention of agents are not guaranteed. And that's why we hope to be able to add the amendment we've made today, and to make what the chief physician says on the previous Friday before the year's end. But always, by the way with the rest of the systems of culture, from agreement, and not from the point of view of a proposition from above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u130	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing over to the non-correction teams, Euskal Socialists, Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u131	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Yes, it is true that after this intense plenary, some points more than others, even the one I thought could not be – which was that of commercial activities – has also been intense. I am not going to go much longer, because I believe that the two previous spokespersons have placed exactly what was the motive and cause that brought us to this motion. Mr Barrio made it clear that it was, after a while, a question of being able to obtain information on how it worked and what Kultura Auzolanean's results were, and the adviser himself responded favourably. Mr Carmelo Barrio said that it was an informational inquiry, and we now have a completed motion, since the Government has already committed itself, through the adviser himself, to providing that assessment and information on what has been done so far, and also to forward to this Parliament and to present to him the lines that can define the strategy for the next actions of this programme. We all know what Kultura Auzolanean is. We all know the principles on which the new governance operates, the inter-institutional dialogue and public-private collaboration, and the short-, medium- and long-term action of what cultural management has to do, which is very much what our cultural actors in our country facilitate. I think it is very difficult, if we talk about the interpellation, to make another intervention than I am doing now, Mr Barrio. It was an informational inquiry, he was told that he would be sent that information and, in addition, the strategic lines for the future will also be forwarded. It is true that there is then a controversy as to the transcription or reading of what the adviser said in the inquiry, which Mr Estarrona has explained in very detail. I understood that the adviser was committed to what Mr Barrio was asking him to do, to make an assessment of what had been done in that programme so far, and to working with those principles of governance, shared management, public-private collaboration, with a view to the future, as has been done, for example, in the Gipuzkoa Diputation or in other nearby territories that Mr Estarrona has quoted. It is the reason for our position in favour of the motion, since it cannot be otherwise. You knew that they were going to comply with what was requested in the inquiry, maybe we didn't even have to be talking about the motion, because we knew it was going to be completed. But once presented, you are right, Mr Barrio, that assessment must be made and, in addition to making that assessment, it would be appropriate – and the department has assumed – for these strategic lines to be sent to this Parliament; because when a parliamentarian is right, he does not have to give it to the government and that is what we are going to do by voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u133	Thank you, and good evening to all. Thank you, ma'am. It is up to us today to finish the ordinary plenary session, the last plenary session, with an initiative by Mr Barrio on the development of the Kultura Auzolanean programme as the main tool of the cultural policy of the Department of Culture of the Basque Government. To begin with, it must be made clear that the Department of Culture has characterized itself as a legislature because of its apathy and its inaction in everything that has to do with culture. It moves by inertia and without initiative, and today's motion is a perfect example. The People's Group presents an initiative to follow up on the Kultura Auzolanean program and ends – as will happen in a few minutes – by approving with the parties that support the government. And an agreement will be adopted whereby the same will continue to be done, presenting programmes and lines, but without putting anything into practice. And the novelty of this proposal is that it will now be signed by a number of parliamentarians. And in that I have to acknowledge the talent you have, Mr Barrio, in order to appear to be opposing and in the end you end up signing that everything remains the same and it is a wonder, because in the end what we are doing is whitewashing the Basque Government's absolute abandonment of culture, because it seems that culture, which is what we really care about, does not matter to anyone here. Since we came to this Parliament, we have come up with a proposal, together with cultural groups, to agree and pursue a Basque pact for culture, a pact for culture to assess cultural policy in recent years, starting, of course, with plans, programmes and strategic lines. And in this I must also recognize another talent, that of Mr Zupiria, who is expert in listing plans, programmes and strategies in detail.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u134	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u135	But just to enumerate, since the policies that the department that he is responsible for and that he leads are clearly ineffective. And it is surprising, because there are other institutions and other administrations—deputies and municipalities—where strategic plans have been carried out and, moreover, with participatory processes and, instead, at the autonomous level they do not know, do not answer, do not seem to be going to answer, or if they answer they are dedicated to enumerating. And the amendment that Mr Estarrona brought to us today is a claim that had already been put on the table in the Committee on Culture, a committee which often gives the impression that it is kept out of reality and cultural activity in the Basque Country. And we understand that there is a general problem in this department, where all about paper are wonderful plans and projects. When one listens to the answers that Mr. Zupiria gives many times – when asked or asked – the truth is that he is often satisfied; but it is that in reality they are not fulfilled, nor are they put into action. We have said this and we have raised it many times, we believe in another cultural model and moreover the situation of culture in Euskadi goes through a reflection, a rethinking of the model itself where really culture is put at the center. We have always understood that culture, art and its expression in terms of cultural policies, have for years suffered an extreme position of remoteness, in addition to cuts and loss of cultural agents as a result, at the beginning of the economic crisis, and especially in the areas mentioned here, of the performing arts, live music, literature or Basque. And as the Analysis in the value chain and proposals for cultural policy on the state of culture in Euskadi pointed out, "the Basque cultural policy has little centrality in public policies", which hinders the constitution of the Basque cultural sector in the globalized market in which it must compete in inferior conditions most of the time. In the face of this situation, a consensus-based agreement is needed to ensure the presence of culture in all cities and villages, to promote territorial cohesion, to guarantee decent working and professional conditions – and in this matter we have already stressed many times, because we have brought to this House the precarious situation in which many women workers of cultural areas who depend on the public administration live – and, of course, to aim at the promotion of culture, both in its economic aspect and in the strategic sector, as well as in education and training, always understanding that culture is a common right and a common good. And in the face of this situation, we believe that the only thing that this motion does is to continue to give it to the government or to the department itself... which is true that it does not update, because what Mr. Estarrona has commented, either of you can verify. We, when one reads the motion, of course we agree. It's just that many times, Mr. Barrio, it's impossible to disagree with your motions, of course, on paper. Because then they stay in a drawer and absolutely nothing happens. And I don't think Euskadi's culture deserves that. And I believe that what is happening is that we are reiterating issues, because we are facing an area, such as culture, where there are many actors and groups in the sector who are claiming and demanding a pact, a participation and a change of model, and deaf ears are being heard. And I believe that in the face of these kinds of motions, with which, of course, we cannot disagree. We cannot be against all that is being followed up and all that is being demanded of the development of cultural policies, which, as I have said, sound very good when they are being read; although the amendment tabled by Mr Estarrona, of course, seems to us to be more appropriate, because it is a matter that we have already dealt with, which is that of actually establishing a process for a pact of culture, because it seems that this department does not have the veil well placed, nor knows where it is going, nor does it seem that it cares. So, with all these issues, we will have nothing but support for both initiatives, but we do want to make it very clear in our intervention that the Department of Culture needs a change of direction, and that not only goes through enumerating plans, projects and strategic lines, but by actually creating a participatory process...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u136	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u137	Create a participatory process with industry actors, so that the plan really has some meaning and culture is a right in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u139	Chief of Parliament, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good evening to all. Mr Barrio, we will approve your proposal on the basis of the will expressed by the adviser himself, Mr Zupiria, in the answer to the question that gave rise to this motion, when he literally came to say: "I think we would have no difficulty in drawing up a kind of relationship, or script, of different documents that have been drawn up so far and of others that can be produced in the coming months until the end of the legislature". Mr. Estarrona, we'll vote for the addition correction, because you're asking for an strategic plan, and you're not involved in the government agreement program. I am conscious of what you have said, by the introduction of this motive, that the chief physician mentioned a strategic plan called Kultura 2019-22, although the chief physician, as true as that, had made it clear to the government that it would be the plan to develop and promote in several parts of their jurisdictions the strategic frame of their activities. It won't be that kind of strategic plan you'd like. This plan of the Chief Department will soon be transferred to the Council of Government, and there is also the will to present itself to the legislature. He'll have to share with Hakoba, and he'll be transferred to the Basque Cultural Council to share with the operators. It will be a document that will mark the strategic furrows of the next year's activity, which will serve as much as it does. Not that strategic plan you require, but it will be a plan that marks the strategic ridge of the department that will appear in the legislature and will share it with the operators. But as an strategic plan required in your correction, no. Still, I wouldn't want to get involved tonight. I'd like to speak and praise the program in the Cultural Journal, which Mr. Barri's initiative has conducted today. For the first time in the Cultural Neighborhood is a model of relation to other public and private social institutions and motives of culture, an agreed work program which sets up plans and tasks. It's a way of working with four main columns in the region of culture from the coordination of institutions, called the Hakoba of culture, the Eukomy, the three Forumidians, the town councils of the three capitals, and Eudel, in which the representatives of the Basque Ministry have studied and agreed to propose proposals and initiatives to the Basque Council later on. Another column would be the Basque Council of Culture. The principal point where the national administration represents proposals to the representatives of the culture world, and discusss them, which has essential value to decide, or to manage for culture, as a site for reflection and definition. The third is the sectorial delegation. He who at present has too much division, and where ranks and indirects are more and more important, often has too solemn a view. And fourth, the Euscala of Cultura. The operation of culture and the knowledge and continuity of its evaluation which has been the basis of the necessary resources and sectors' strategic plans to complete and become the basis for the examination of the circumstances. Gure ustetan, ardazak eta zutabeak on which ipinita daude lan txukun bat Egypt. I would say that it is a clear, solid strategy, despite not having a strategic plan understood as such. Es una strategy clara y ólida for a decent job, because the quality of the way to do the quality of what's done wants to be added to the quality of the mode. And from the hand of the original initiative, we find it interesting to share the consideration of the second phase of the program, or of the months following this stage, quoted in the Cultura Neighbor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u140	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. On the answering shift, Mr. Barrio, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u141	Yes, thank you very much, President. From the seat, above all to thank you for your support to the parliamentary groups that are going to sign the motion. And tell Mrs. Garcia a little something. I mean, I do the job. I detect a deficit, I ask for explanations, I demand a job from the government, it seems that it will be supported and that seems to be nothing. In the end, I have carried out two missions: my role of controlling the Government through an interpellation and the role that the opposition has of impulse through a motion that is going to take place in a parliamentary work, and I have given it the option of being critical also with the action of the Government through the motion. That is, I believe that I have served up to three functions in the same parliamentary action. In any case, I would like to remind everyone simply what we are going to approve, that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to submit, within three months, a monitoring and development document on what has been called the second phase of the Kultura Auzolanean instrument. – which we do not yet have – describing the projects the programme intends to address and the strategic lines in this second cultural phase. It's just that I think this motion is very well done. I believe that what we have asked for from the Government is also very concrete and I am very pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u142	All right. Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Anyone else? Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u143	Yes, thank you. Lehenik eta behin, eskerrak ematea Carmelo Barrio jaunari, for having asked this government to make an Excel. Thank you very much, Mr. Barrio. And with all sincerity, a second reflection. And I am grateful for many honestys, and it is true, as the representative of the EAJ has confessed, that the government will now and it seems to be going to present in the autumn those strategic furrows which the department will develop. And that's where you highlight the strategic furrows that the department will develop, or the strategies required by culture in this country. And so I thank you, too, for different things. We wanted a little to determine a strategic plan of departure, because as I said already, we've been in this town for 15 years without a cultural strategy. They've all been plans since 2004. And so I'd like to thank you for your honesty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u144	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Romero from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u145	Thank you, President. If you'll excuse me, from the seat. I believe that I have told Mr Barrio that it is to be thanked that an information inquiry has been answered, because in the end a commitment from the Government is made to assess and report on what has been done so far and to forward the strategic lines. In any case, I do not want to end that without saying that, apart from the rhythms and how it is fulfilled, what I do understand, because I have not seen any criticism of all the speakers, is not sharing the management model that is carried out in Kultura Auzolanean. I believe that we all start from the fact that this collaboration is necessary, that this shared management was also necessary. And we will need to adjust the times, both there and in the committee, because I believe that in the committee we have also shared these principles. And nothing else. This session is now over. And if we don't see each other, happy summer. See you later.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Is Mrs. García going to have a word together? No. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u147	Yes, ma'am, from the seat, if you please. I thank him for his sincerity. The EH Collector. As a matter of fact, since I've been in this house, I don't think I've ever intended to tell anyone anything. But I think that in your argument you are not very different from one thing. It is one thing that there is no strategic plan, and it is another thing that there is no strategy. And I think there's a strategy as well as culture, as well as Jeltzan Party, in this house and in the Euskon, at least in 1980. So let's differentiate strategy and strategic plan. Just because it's not the strategic plan doesn't mean there's no strategy. And we believe that the strategy is clear and strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u148	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Now that the discussion has ended, we'll vote first to add EH Collection to the group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 28; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u149	The correction to add was not therefore accepted. Next, we'll vote for the original text of Carmulus Barrius Barroja's motion. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-27.u150	So, it's unanimously accepted the original text of Carmelo Barrio. Since we've finished the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was six o'clock in the afternoon.
