ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u0	We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, we shall call the name of the Unlawed Zaltare. The broad is Mrs. Zaraate's in.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u1	I suppose you'd like to welcome me. First point in theme list: "Irrelation of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, concerning the compatibility condition of the candidate by Eucharada. There is a debate and a final decision, and there may be a vote for the election of the senator." Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Is there a band of parliaments willing to speak against or against the judgment? That's all we're going to vote for the temporary solution of the union committee. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u2	Therefore judgment is thereby approved. Next, each group of legislatures, the largest of the smallest, is within five minutes... Nobody's planning to be involved. 4.1981 Laws, and Articles of the Rule of the Parliament, concerning the nomination of Senators called Euscadi, are said to be made by a card, and the name of one candidate in the tickets is written. First of all, the first secretary at the desk will get a number and then you'll be called to the congressmen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u3	Eight.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u4	It starts from eight numbers. The first secretary at the table will call the congressmen to vote. You have tickets on your offers, a name or a white one. [[Pause]] The first secretary at the table has called the congressmen to vote from Ms. Argrei Romanate. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the ones on the side of Madam Gabant of the Road, in the 18th white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u5	The selected senator is, therefore, as follows: Mrs. Gabanchi of the Wedre Way... [[Berber]] It takes 19 votes to nominate the senator, and since he has only taken 18, we'll vote again. [[Berber]] We'll take a little break, then we'll go back to the entire meeting. It was nine o'clock in the morning and forty-seven. The meeting began again at ten o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u6	We'll start the whole meeting. New point in theme list: "Irrelation of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, concerning the compatibility condition of the candidate by Eucharada. There is a debate and a final decision, and there may be a vote for the election of the senator." Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Do any of the legislatures want to speak against or against the judgment? We'll simply vote for the final solution of the union committee. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u7	The judgment is therefore unanimously accepted. Next, each group of legislatures, the largest of the smallest, is within five minutes... Ez du inork part hartuko. 4.1981 Laws, and Articles of the Rule of the Parliament, concerning the nomination of Senators called Euscadi, are said to be made by a card, and the name of one candidate in the tickets is written. First of all, the first secretary at the desk will get a number and then the congressman will be called.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u8	Berrogeita's in a fight.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u9	It starts from about forty-one numbers. The first secretary at the table will call the congressmen to vote. [[Pause]] The first secretary at the table has contacted the members of the Parliament to vote from Mrs. Llanos Gómez. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the ones on the side of Madam Gabant, 22; on the white, 50.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u10	The selected senator is, therefore, as follows: Mrs. Gabantha of the Wedres. 8 articles of the law of March 18/1981, and 232 of the Rule of the Parliament. the elect senator must be informed of his appointment, and beg him to accept it, and then, if he accepts the nomination, he will be declared to be the senator of the Basque Senate. Senator, please come into the drawing room. Mrs. Gabanchi of the Road has come in. Mrs. Gabanchi of the Wedre Calvary, I am formally informed that Bilcura, the House of Parliament, has made you a representative of Euskadi's senator. Do you consent to nominate a senator?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u11	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u12	Hence it is proclaimed that Mrs. Gabanchis of the Wedres represents the senator of Euracdi, the 8th of the law of 4/1981. in the same manner as Article 232, and the Rule of the Common-wealth. So, congratulations. We continue with the list of themes (se.g. left for another purpose). Second point on the subject list: "The illustration of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, AGAGAIN OF THE SUGHING OF THE SUCIENCES OF THE SCIENCE OF THE SENS OF THE SUCTION OF THE SCIENCES OF THE SENDENT. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Do any of the legislatures want to speak against or against the judgment? So that's all we're going to vote for. The resolution of the union committee. Except the members of the legislature which is related to the Constitution, the other members of the legislature can vote for you. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u13	Therefore judgment is approved. Third point in theme list: "Provide the bill of law made by the parliamentary team to prevent the decoration of corporations. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and that's why we're going to argue without having to read it. As they're on the side and the other side, on the side side side, apart from EH Collect, is anyone else willing to participate? Someone else on the side shift? Side shift? No. Well, then, 30 minutes for you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u14	Thank you. Good morning. We will discuss and vote the law of preventing the decoration of the laws which have been introduced to the Basque People at the present day by the Combats. From the point of view of the Combat, this law is not an isolated initiative, but is inserted in a series of proposals which we are doing and which we are doing, and which the law has brought us to this Chamber more than once. Some are accused of limiting the opposite groups and even of the Basque Country in a closed opposition, of being installed in the destructive and inhibiting opposition. But reality proves the contrary; in the presence of the government's divinity, and the sterility of the government's executive initiative, if other groups are visibly assembled, the laws and disputes which we bring to the Chamber: the law of continuity, of shared care, of the law of preserving women's rights, the law of creating an office against corruption, the law of law of law of law of law enforcement... And in the sooconomic field, among other things, we've brought the law to establish social clauses, and we'll also bring it around the neurogenic security. We have also brought in other builders, a set of laborers, poncies, and other implements, to prevent the principal affairs of this people. And today we bring a legal proposal to face another serious problem. Unfortunately, we can predict the process of the process of the process which is opposed to the government, and the parties who support the government will listen to this judgment, and hinder the dispute of this law, they will deny the dispute, and will, unfortunately, refuse to have a new instrument of fighting against desertion. But yet we think it our duty to represent the circumstances of this law, and to defend the conformity of this law. And that's exactly what we're going to do today. This legal proposal of dislocated is to fill a blank. In theory, it should not be a very polemical law, in respect to the consideration of it, because it is already largely established in a historical land of this Renaissance, a very similar law, or, in this case, a standard of forum. In 2007, in the historic territory of Bizkaia, its General Councils unanimously adopted Law 7/2007, on the recovery of aid from the public sector outside in the event of business relocation. It is a law that is in force; it is a law that has not had any legal problem, that has not had any recourse, on whose relevance and fit into the general legal order no one has put any doubt and that has been applied, moreover, and successfully, on more than one occasion. It was, therefore, our plan to extend the whole of this people to the whole country, or at least to the whole of the autonomous part of this people, and to share the useful effects which this law has produced, and to extend them to the whole country. Unfortunately, as I said, it won't be possible. What's delocation? This law is a law to counter-equivocalizations, and as it is already, and you probably know all of you who have been working on this subject, but if there is someone in general and in general that you don't exactly understand what it is to be delocated, we must say it's delocated to carry out the production of a company, to change the place, to push it abroad, and leave it there as a whole, if it's not a remarkable part of the production, more than most of it, to carry it out. There is another kind of rejection, unfortunately, that is in fashion, or that is a vollo-bolo, and it is the deposation of the resolutions. It may happen that a company can be bought by another outside company, so it's a decision to go through there and go to the company's offices. And so what's lost in it is not the production itself, it's not production, it's the decision. To prevent this, it is clear that tools must be started, and that the Government is involved in the fact that the Government announces itself over and over again, but in order to increase the growth of this investments which are never introduced in practice, but it is not the principal subject of the present law, the decoration of the measures is not the object of the law to-day; the object is to prevent the removal of the production, to prevent the desociation of production. In our territory there is a strong exposure of industrial fabric to foreign capital. There are more than a thousand foreign companies based in the country, which is normal and positive. And it is not excessive with respect to what can happen in other territories, it is not excessive dependence, but it is still a very important part of the productive and industrial fabric that is being established or held by multinational companies; it accounts for more than 10% of private employment and contributes approximately 13% to the gross domestic product. Multinational companies are not the only ones that are likely to face or undertake relocation processes. There have also been cases here of indigenous companies that have taken that path of relocation, but it is true that these companies have a more fragile connection with the territory and have a number of facilities (because of the structure of their companies, because of their financial and legal resources, because of the fact that, of course, being transnational they are already settled in a set of territories...), it is these companies that have the easiest recourse to relocation, because, in addition, many times, beyond projects committed to rooting, of projects that go beyond the pure commercial benefit, they are companies that are guided uniquely and exclusively by the ruthless analysis of the balance of results and the search for short-term profitability makes it impossible for them to seek the relocation of production to places where such profitability can be greater. The law which we propose to-day, we clearly see, is not a panacea, and would not prevent it from entirely desolvation. And, of course, he won't solve it and he won't solve all the problems that have our hundred producers or hundreds of industrials. The law is modest, the effect of the law or the scope is depressed, limited, and it is not an immense amount of change or advantage to promote a hundred producers, but there is an effective instrument to resist a problem, a definite answer to a given problem. And there's also a symbolic value that we'd send a message here with the trial of this law to the companies who are trained here. What we were looking for with this law was to establish with companies something that most people know in their particular life, is a kind of permanence contract. When someone makes a contract with a telephone company it was usual – now less, but before it was very common – to give him, for example, the mobile terminal, the phone, but in return he was asked, logically, because the company is not to make gifts but to make money, he was asked to stay for a certain number of years. It is quite logical, and that is precisely what we wanted to do: to offer businesses a favourable environment for them to settle down; to help such a settlement, to help the daily needs of businesses, research, R & D investment, even of new formulas or new attempts at internalisation, that is to say, to provide aid to companies, but always conditioned, such aid, within a period of 10 years, so that if in that period or within a period of less than 10 years at the receipt of aid any company would have the temptation to relocate, it would have to return all the aid received. It was also a statement of intent on the vigilance of the administration over these aids, aid that is not given free of charge and love. Because the threat of relocation isn't like in that movie Star Wars, a ghost threat, it's a real threat. It is a threat that is occurring here, in the Basque territory, in the whole of Europe and, in some way, in all the countries that we could call the most developed in economic terms. Because it is tempting for many companies to relocate to countries with lower production costs, lower labour costs, lower environmental controls, etc., etc. And, therefore, in order to cope with this temptation, it is important to look for mechanisms to encourage the rooting of companies. We talked before one of them could be direct participation in capital; the fundamental thing, I understand it has to be the offer of a complete ecosystem for adequate industrial development, and that is when we talk about something we have repeated on many occasions: we have to attract companies by offering them that ecosystem, offering them well-prepared, well-trained workers, offering them support and offering them an adequate environment, offering them a network of suppliers; that is, a friendly environment and an environment in which those companies can develop their productive activity in a comfortable and appropriate way. Through that is how to attract companies. And if at any given time there is also a need to put some aid, some public aid, that aid can be provided, but always with control and always ensuring that this company will remain linked to the territory. As I said, this temptation to relocate has occurred in many countries, and we are not the first to deal with or try to find ways to deal with this problem. Only in the Spanish state in recent months have there been two cases that have occupied – I believe – plenty of space in the media and that at this point will be more or less known all over the world: one, that of the multinational windmill Vestas, and the other, that of the aluminum company Alcoa. Vestas announced its intention to leave the territory of the Spanish State, where it is based, after having received up to 11 million euros in aid. In the case of Alcoa, the situation is somewhat more complex, but official sources of the Spanish Government itself said that the electricity price subsidies received by this company (Alcoa) in the last 10 years amounted to EUR 1 billion, EUR 1 billion, because they are companies (this, in particular, produces aluminium) that make a very intensive use of electricity, make a use that is improved, and up to EUR 1 billion had been reduced the price of the electricity bill in the last 10 years. Well, then, these companies, what they have decided is to relocate and move their production to countries with lower costs. Here, in Euskal Herria, we have also had bloody cases such as that of the company Incoesa, in Bizkaia, or that of the company Siban, also in Bizkaia, which announced its intention to move from Bizkaia to Cantabria to benefit from a series of aid that at the time was being offered by the cantabrian government for the settlement of new companies. We are talking about the year 2015; at that time the law against relocations on which the law that Euskal Herria Bildu is presenting in this House was already in force in Bizkaia, and the Bizkaia Foreign Minister, his deputy for Economic Promotion, announced the opening of a file to force this company, in the event that the relocation materialized, to return about 100,000 euros it had received in aid, only from the Foreign Minister, in previous years. And this simple measure, this opening of file within the framework of the foral rule against relocations, prevented Siban from leaving Bizkaia. In this Parliament we have also discussed the question of relocations, and there has been a case that has made us look back more than once on this issue. A recent case, of 2017, is the case of the company Vizcaine, or based in Bizkaia, General Electric. This company decided to relocate its production and go to India; for this it carried out a series of financial engineering operations to weaken the Ortuella plant, and, well, it is not a question of talking in detail about this topic, but here they did leave. We arrived at Se Marcharon, and on this side, apart from more than once in this parliament, to a treaty in November 2017. In short, we tried to ask you to take a review of delocations and preventive measures. In particular, the parliament said: "El Parlamento rectha la deslocalización de activedas productivas en simple convenientia emerial, de obtenteción de un maor benefi economico." And then Parliament said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to include measures against relocations as a direction and priority within European Union legislation in the protocols to be followed with companies, or in the lines of aid granted to them." This last point contained a resolution also adopted in the context of the debate on the Industrialization Plan a month earlier, which was in the same direction and was literally the same. Now the law which we propose to-day, the law which we bring here, has also the will to answer it. The measurements were ordered, and we've brought the measures. This law comes to fill a void, and proposes an organized system to prevent it from becoming more difficult, as far as possible, and if, in the worst case, delocations are performed, it does not take the money that companies have received here on public contributions. The labor law yes, eta zehatza. We could say that there is more context than text in this law, because, as we said earlier, it has a very precise and very specific objective: the return of aid from companies moving. Hence the law is organized only in two chapters, and contains eight articles and two regulations. In this medium, delocation is defined, it is planned for legal criteria to start the delocation procedure, and in this case the protocol must be determined to follow. This is the compromise of the law, precise, clear, direct, a problem which proposes a practical measure for this problem. And unfortunately, as we said before, for our surprise, the curse of my heart was contrary to this law. And the reason has been extraordinary, but apart from the surprising, we may say that it may also be clear. Gobernuak ezetz esaten gave law honi, besteak beste, esaten digulako: "Like companies, countries and regions also have to be competitive. The restrictions and anti-delocalisation measures contained in the European regulations, we believe, are appropriate. Any additional conditions beyond the European regulatory framework for investment and/or employment aid would put our region and our companies at a disadvantage in terms of competitive environmental conditions." I mean, for once, the government doesn't mention the doubt about the legal security, it doesn't mention lack of competency, no. The government says directly that if these precautions were made our land would not be so competitive. He relies upon his arguments in competition, or rather in competition. And we think that's unacceptable. It is not by any means a violation of competition to give or receive attention to conditions, but to encourage productive patterns based on rights. Is the Basque Government saying that the Bizkaia Parliament, which has a similar rule in force, is damaging the competitiveness of Bizkaia territory? Is the Basque Government saying that, with the favourable vote of the PNV and the Socialist Party, Bizkaia has deteriorated its competitiveness by demanding and implementing a law similar to the one we put on the table today? When the Member of Parliament for the Economic Promotion of Bizkaia opens up file to Siban for relocation and claims 100,000 euros of aid previously granted in the event that he is displaced is damaging the competitiveness of the historical territory of Bizkaia? Has the PNV and the Socialist Party been for 10 years allowing the territory of Bizkaia to be less competitive? Well, I honestly don't think so. These are the same arguments that we hear on the more liberal right when it comes to raising, for example, the minimum wage: that we are going to be less competitive. Just a few months ago, what a trembling debate some in the Spanish state have raised with the rise of the minimum wage! And, of course, it was seen that they were making false arguments and it was seen that, in fact, neither the rise in the minimum wage destroyed the economy, nor generated any further unemployment or problems, except for one who would be somewhat lightened in his pocket for the benefit of the majority. Here they tell us again that it is to damage competitiveness to demand responsibility from companies. Is it also demanding fair wages to damage competitiveness? What mirror do we want to look at when we make these kinds of opinions? I have one doubt: I do not know – and I do not know what is more worrying, moreover – whether the Basque Government has made this opinion as revenge for a series of defeats it has had here in Parliament, and it says "Well, if I do not take out my budgets and my laws, I will veto EH Bildu's ability to bring forward laws or develop its legislative initiative". I don't know if it's a somewhat childish revenge or if they're really in these non-liberal but ultra-liberal postulates. Because the right-wings in other European countries are concerned about the defence of their businesses and industries. Right-wing in countries... I'm no longer going to quote people like Trump or Salvini, who I don't think are examples of anything, but in the French state itself, Mr. Macron, if you have to nationalize a shipyard, you go and nationalize it. It will be very liberal and it is in the European Liberal Group, and it preaches liberalism to the right and wrong, but when it is necessary to nationalize a shipyard it nationalizes it. And when Renault announces that it is valuing to merge with Fiat – and this is news this week – the French state, which owns the 15% of Renault and who is not there as a guest of stone, who is not there to appear, who is not there to do nothing, is there to look after the interests of the French State's citizens, the French State is the first to say "To see what is happening here, and I will make sure that this operation, within all the freedom of enterprise that is desired, does not harm the interests of the French State, nor of the citizens of the French State, nor of the French workers of Renault". They are right-wing parties, but here are some right-wing parties that are more liberal than the liberal parties, they are more papist than the Pope. And what about the left, for the Basque social democracy..., is that it is not that it is to the right of social democracy in the Spanish state, it is that in Europe the workers are asking that companies be compulsory in a percentage owned by the workers. The workers have said that they are going to nationalize the energy sector partly, even, and by the part that can touch this country, by the reference that a part of Iberdrola, which operates in the United Kingdom, is going to be nationalized; that it will be paid – logically – a compensation, but that will be nationalized. That's what the workers carry in their program: nationalization of energy companies, ownership shared by workers... And you back here because we ask you, if a company receives aid, not to leave within 10 years, and if it goes, to return the aid. And they sign an opinion from a government that says it damages competitiveness. As I was saying before, I don't know if it's a hoax or if they really believe it. In any case, they are punishing the citizen and punishing the rights of workers to have better tools to defend their jobs, I do not know exactly why. And it turns out that, obviously, in this defense of liberalism and of the most disparate version of the economic policies of the right, because, logically, they have found themselves on the way with the People's Party to close that conservative clamp that again and again in this House opposes the advancement of rights. The law, probably, was perfect, and, like all laws, it was necessary to follow a tramite. In this Tramite there was room for corrections, changes, and improvements, and probably with everyone's contribution the law would end better than it had begun. But you, unfortunately, have not only denied the law's agreement or quality, but you have denied the same discussion. Unfortunately, the government and the sects that support the government have shown a very small political capacity and a very small commitment to the workers of the Basque Country. We, on our side, will not fall into this game, we will continue to investigate the Basque Country, the United States, all the proposals which the Government and the other parties bring together, and will try to get into agreements, and try to negotiate and improve in other proposals. If he succeeds, we will make a treaty; if he does not, there will be no treaty. The society, which we shall never do, is to punish the citizens under the political divisional competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u15	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. We'll go in reverse shift. Who wants to participate in the opposite round? Popular parties. That's it? Nobody? On the other hand, only the Popular Party, so Monsieur Damborena, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Casanova, I don't know what right-wing types of all those you've quoted frame us or frame me. In any case, I will tell you that voting against is not to prevent a debate, I have come out here to discuss with you what you propose. You have told us that this proposal of law that brings us comes to fill a void, and I tell you that to what comes is to make worse something that already exists, that is, because this that you pose already we have regulated it, we have regulated it more than twenty years ago. Man, it cost this group a lot for the Basque Government to admit that any subsidy or aid has to be regulated by law so that all who aspire to have aid or a subsidy have the same participation rights on equal terms for access to aid from the Basque Government, but it has already been done, it has already been done. You tell us in article 1 that "The purpose of this Act is to determine the obligations and limitations of companies receiving aid from the General Administration. The aim is to ensure that the subsidies that companies receive are to make an economic contribution." All this is regulated in the sixth title, articles 48 et seq. of Legislative Decree 1/97, of the Computer Principles of the Treasury of the Basque Country. We've got this. What's new about you? Well, the new thing you ask us is that when a company fails to do what you propose, for example, relocation, which returns the money with the legal interest. Well, then, I'm gonna tell you how we've regulated some, that I don't know if we're like Trump or what we are, right? But what we have raised in the law is that, in addition to returning – obviously – the aid or subsidy received, you can be fined for breach of obligations, which in the very serious ones is a fine that goes from double to triple of the amount unduly obtained, that is, the subsidy that has been received more than double or triple of that amount; if it is serious, then, a little less, besides a ban on hiring with the Public Administration of the Basque Country for three years, six years, a year... That is to say, the sanctions we have provided for in the Subsidies Act of this Autonomous Community many years ago are far superior to what you put to us in your proposal for a law, and I, the only difference perhaps, the only reason there is is that you say that all aid to all companies, or all subsidies, must have this requirement and we must put the requirements in the law, but I will add that I cannot agree either because all aid is not the same, or for the same things. So there are aids which, of course, cannot have the same requirements, all the aid provided for in a law, and that, of course, is the work of the Government. And, as you say, many years ago this Parliament told the government to put these clauses in place, and I am going to quote only two of the last ones. The Order of 11 June 2018, of the Councillor for Economic Development, for the financial year 2018, program of subsidies for the impulse in the areas of Margen Izquierda and Oarsoaldea, will sound to you, Article 16.12, obligations of the beneficiaries, assume the commitment not to engage in business relocation, understanding as such the transfer out of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country of all or part of the production of the beneficiary. All or part of it, any of it. You do not pose from all or part, you pose a sui generis interpretation In the regulations that we have is all or part, and that is already cause of non-compliance, and I can quote another, which would be that of the Department of Economic Development, the Order of 27 June 2018, of the Gauzatu Industry Programme, which has exactly the same clause in Article 20.3, non-compliances: "The relocation of investments financed by this programme will mean the initiation of the timely non-compliance file and the return of aid". And then it comes as an obligation not to engage in business relocation, etc., etc. I mean, this thing you're putting forward, we've already got it. That is why we are going to vote against it, because we do not understand that this is being raised. Come on, yes I understand, I understand what you propose, but I tell you that we already have it regulated and better regulated. What I no longer understand is the response of the Basque Government. Mr Erkoreka, since you have sent it to us, I would like the Basque Government to explain to us why you say that the restrictions and anti-localisation measures collected are not adequate. Yeah, of course they're appropriate, and we have them. Why do they say that any additional conditions... What happens, that the anti-delocalization clause is an additional condition? If we have it, if we have it, if you put it! I mean, what's this about? And then, point two, "... in any case it will be that law..." – the one that you say you are going to bring – "... the one that will address the reintegration". But if we've already regulated it, it's already regulated! What do you mean, we'll have to regulate it by law? So I have to ask myself a question here: either the Government ignores its own legislation on the matter, or the Government is planning to bring us a bill to remove the anti-localization clause, for example. That is all I can interpret from this reply from the Basque Government, and I would like the Basque Government to reply to us, because, of course, it is important and, of course, we do not know which sector of the right Mr Casanova is putting us in, but we will be against it, if that is what the Government wants. It will not be a hindrance to the work of the Government, which does not bring us great things to this Parliament to hinder them, but, of course, if it is going to bring us this which is inspired by this response, it is not that we will hinder it, it is that we will vote not. Why? Because the legislation that we have seems to us to be more appropriate and correct, and we also agreed on it among all of us many years ago. And, in any case, Mr Casanova, to avoid relocations, the issue is not so much the law. If a territory is to be attractive today, if companies are to come, not if we are not to leave what we have, if companies are to come, we must make it attractive with proper taxation, which you refuse. Of course, they refuse. You have to have proper services, proper communications, which you refuse. I will not remind you that you are opposed to any infrastructure that you intend to do in this country, of course. And, of course, there has to be institutional stability, and nationalism is not precisely a machine to attract companies from outside to a territory where what is being raised are the nationalist velences of one or the other. And that's how we've been for over ten years, where we don't seem to attract anyone. But, of course, we have the highest IRPF, societies we have improved something; we have a conflictivity..., you said a favorable and friendly environment; in the end, we have a labor conflictivity that I don't know if it's favorable or friendly, but, come on, I know companies that moved to Cantabria from Bizkaia and from Álava only by the most friendly and favorable union environment. And you know them too. So, of course, you're really worried about relocation and attracting companies? So you would have to change quite a lot, quite a lot, the proposals that you make or bring us to this Parliament, because everything else, and the speech that you have made to us, is a lot of talk. Our proposals are contrary, they are for staying and for others to come. But that friendly environment goes through the three steps I have told you: taxation, services and, of course, institutional stability.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u17	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u18	Well, I wasn't planning on going out, but very briefly for several allusions that have been made. Let's see how I say this without looking like Groucho Marx. Let's see. I mean, what there is is more demanding than what we ask. And what we ask, according to the government, damages competitiveness. So what is there is the apocalypse for competitiveness. That's, a little, the reasoning you've made. You have not contradicted yourself, no, because you have said that there is more; it is the government that has said that the new would damage competitiveness, and you add, "No, no, it is that what is there is above the new." So, well, the stars have lined up so that the parties that support the government join the People's Party, for reasons that I believe are different, but, well, they have added the numbers to put this down. And I think it's a shame, because it said to me, "There are other kinds of clauses and other types of proposals that are still going beyond." This law does not limit above, this law, what it does is to lay a floor, that is, a series of minimum requirements. And in some aspects such as, for example, the one you mentioned, when talking about significant transfer, premeditatedly, what we do is pick up in its literality what is already approved in Bizkaia. Because sometimes in our naivety we thought that if a law – in this case, an outlaw – has been passed by some parties, it would be virtually impossible for those parties to refuse to process a law that comes to say the same thing as they have voted... , which comes to say the same, no, which says the same as they voted. We thought our naivety was going to happen. That is why I understand – and earlier in the first intervention, I referred to this – that there may be another set of conditions other than those which refer to the law itself and to the contents of the law, other conditions of a more political nature that have led the Government to seek a number of excuses to refuse this treatment. What we were proposing is that a protocol should be systematically established that would at least establish what this law provides for, and that, from there, another set of clauses and another set of measures could raise that ceiling. But at least, if the law had been admitted to procedure – and I think you have missed a chance today, if you are really in the line you have come here to defend – if the law had been admitted to procedure, you would have been able to introduce a number of proposals. We, too, thought of drafting this law in the sense that we would not go as far as we wished to have gone, in the interests of a minimum consensus, at least so that the law could be admitted to procedure and see the light, perhaps not at the top of our demands, but with acceptable minimum contents. And from that perspective it is how we present this law, which, of course, could be improved and raised in terms of demand throughout the debate. Because relocations not only have a problem with companies that actually materialize relocation. The relocations involve a sword of Damocles that is often used in collective bargaining to curb the demands of the workers, precisely with that threat that always hangs there, that is, "Well, as I don't like what you are offering me, I take it and I leave". It is, a little, like when you were little, that it was dangerous to argue playing football or it was dangerous to punish the ball owner because he could catch, bite, take the ball and freak out; or as in that ad – I think it was Pictionary – they had to accept octopus as a pet because, if not, the game owner was also leaving. And that's what companies often do, "You take it or leave it." And the starting point for collective bargaining in many industrial areas in this country is that the entrepreneur says, "Well, I have a lot of sites that would be happy to welcome my company." And already from those parties, apart from another series of measures that have been introduced to further unbalance this collective bargaining in favour of the employer. And on taxation in a friendly environment and so on, well, I have had the opportunity, to prepare this speech, to read previous debates, specifically, among others, that of General Electric, and that debate we have already had there, I will not repeat it. Only, of course, I also want a friendly environment and proper taxation, but I think we have different concepts of what proper taxation is. You want proper taxation so that entrepreneurs maximize their profit and pay as little as possible; I believe that proper taxation is the one that balances tax taxation with the possibility of developing an economic activity that has a real profit, because the benefit is also legitimate. And kindness, as I said, is not that workers swallow anything. There must be skilled workers, there must be a research system, there must be an education system, there must be a supplier system, there must be an industrial culture system around the company, which can give it everything it needs. Because – and I also told you this in the previous debate – there will always be someone who asks for less taxes and there will always be someone who works for less money. And in that competition, there we will always lose; and, therefore, we will have to strive and be good there where we can offer, matching that friendly environment for the development of business with the legitimate rights of workers to have decent conditions and decent wages, and to have a system of public services financed with adequate taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u19	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Damborenea, on behalf of the Popula Party, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Man, I wasn't planning on going out, either, but in the end... He says, "This law is not a roof." Man, this law replaces that which is in force. See, all laws can be improved, but in your proposal I see no improvement. In fact, if I had any improvement, I would have amended the existing articles to say "This, we want to modify it so that it improves", which you have not done. And I understand that he makes his political proposal to say "I'm very concerned about the relocation of companies", which is a lie, because none of his proposals in his approaches are for any to remain or for any to come from outside. Sure, sure. And he tells me, kindness, taxation... Wow, let's see. Dublin, Ireland. Grills. Does that ring a bell? A Catalan multinational, Spanish – very independent, by the way, the owner – and left for Dublin. Why? Why is he moving to Dublin, being in the middle of the process? That's why I'm telling you your speech is fake, it's not credible. It's not credible. Why do you think that two years ago 80% of foreign investment in Spain and the Basque Country went to companies that were going to invest had a registered office in the Netherlands? Why do you think it was? Because they paid more taxes? Because the working conditions were worse? Why do you think it was? Why would the unions there make life impossible for them? Why do you think it was? Why do you think it was? Let him look at it. Don't tell me you bet a lot on companies. Look, you've been in charge of scaring hundreds of companies from this country for many years, not to mention shutting down, shutting down hundreds of other companies. And now we are very concerned about Basque companies? What if they leave or stay? I'll have to tell him it's not credible. That you have come here to give us the speech that "I care a lot about companies", but that is not true, because all your measures are against companies. All the measures are for them to stay there; all the measures are for them not to invest here; all their fiscal, economic, infrastructure proposals are for them not to be, are for them not to be. So, listen, if you sell this a lot to your parish, well, it seems very good to me. We didn't buy it from him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u21	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u22	So he doesn't consider it. Next, we'll vote and begin with the Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u23	Thank you, President. Good morning. Taking into account the legitimate right of the opposition to present legislative initiatives, the Basque Socialists have voted against the consideration of the proposed law presented by Euskal Herria Bildu to regulate the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u24	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u25	In order to regulate the determination of the obligations and limitations of companies receiving public aid in the face of possible relocation processes, not to avoid any debate, but for two fundamental reasons: firstly, because we share with the Government that the restrictions and anti-delocalisation measures contained in the European regulations are measures that are adequate; certainly improveable, but for the time being appropriate. We live in a globalized world in which cross-border cross-investment, change in the location of tasks and ownership, and the use of information technologies also make business competitiveness a global dimension. And companies are subject to a constantly changing environment, with open markets, logistics and technologies in constant innovation processes, and increasingly intense competition. Therefore, in this context, the company must be able to meet the needs of its customers more effectively than its competitors and provide more interesting goods and services. For the fight against relocation to have positive effects, it is necessary to carry out new business strategies that provide the product with added value, quality-based strategies, in the continuous improvement of products through investment in R & D+i, the improvement in the training of the labour force, in order to generate more specialized and more trained personnel for the sectors of greater technological intensity. The purpose of relocation is generally to improve or maintain certain goods and services that are no longer competitive in the location of origin, and the work of the Basque Government must be to make Euskadi an attractive business location, to avoid competing with strategies based on labour costs. And just like businesses, countries and regions, we have to be competitive. The choice of location of an investment is a matter for a strategic company, which has to consider many aspects of different kinds, including aid or public incentives. In Europe, incentives are set out in different regulations to put these public policies into practice and to prevent aid inflation between different states and regions, and the Basque Government, in its policy of incentives for business location in Euskadi, manifests itself through the lines of aid, the lines of subsidies, which contain support measures and measures also against this business relocation that brings us here today the issue of the proposed law. And it is done within the framework of European legislation, and it is also laid down in that regulation that we have the reimbursement of aid when it is not in line with the objectives for which it was proposed. And the second reason why we voted against the Basque Socialists is because this issue of subsidies and aid is already regulated in order to prevent the relocation of companies, as was said before, through the rules of the computer principles of the Basque Public Finance, and also in different orders and regulations that are being taken out or used by the various departments, including the one of Economic Development and Competitiveness. We therefore find it interesting that programmes such as the one at Indartu, for example, are regulations and incentive aid programmes for the localisation of these companies in Euskadi, but that they also have specific rules on how to reintegrate aid if it does not meet the objective of localisation and the relocation of companies takes place. We therefore hope that the grant bill, if any, will improve the current regulatory proposal and the current grant proposal if it is able to agree on a broader majority than is currently the case with the current regulation. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Vice President, Congressmen, all good days. Companion in companies is a serious problem, not just for euscal workers, but for the whole Basque economy. And it's a serious problem, especially in the case of industry, because industry's wages are big, they're taller, and it's much more injurious to the economy. That's why we have to face the delocation of corporations, and that's why we've been able to protect ourselves from taking this legal proposition. We admit this tool is not enough to deal with delocations, but it is necessary. We must also say, that it is proper, because it is founded on the forum rules. And then, you know, you know, I don't know, and this is where you say we have it, but it's not true. Our group is in favour, has been in favour and we have voted in favour of dealing with this bill because, unlike what has been said here, we believe that the Basque Government today does not have enough tools to deal with the relocation of companies. Among other things, it does not have a tool, it does not have a procedure to declare when a relocation occurs or not. And perhaps that was the greatest virtue of this bill, which was possibly better, sure it was better, but, unlike what the Government has said, it is totally legal, it is totally relevant and it is totally necessary. It is necessary, but also insufficient, to say this, because it refers to subsidies, but it does not refer to financial aid, it does not refer to industrial holdings which are also held by public administrations. And among other things, it is insufficient because even having this tool, companies will possibly continue to relocate equally, equally. General Electric paid and returned all the aid he had obtained before he moved. Because the ultimate solution to the relocation of companies is likely to come to us when we have a new business model in a new business model. A company model based on the cooperative model, based on the inclusive-participatory model or on any model where those who own the company are not tempted to go elsewhere. Because I have said it once and a thousand times in this rostrum: capital has no roots, capital has only interests. And when a company is relocated it is to reduce the costs in destination and to lower the wages and the working conditions in origin, and all that is for the benefit of the capitalist, but to the detriment of the economy, the economy of the country and the economy of the families that lose purchasing power. Industry that goes away is industry loss, say what the government says, say what the parties that support it say, and that we have to take into account when voting. That is why I believe that the important thing here was not so much the proposal for a law, nor its content, that possibly in a process would have been improved, but the will, the will shown by the groups in voting. And the will shown here by the groups in voting is very different from that shown when the proposal is not law, because there we can vote anything. The issue is what we vote for when what we vote on is a law, something to be fulfilled, and that's where the problems start. And that is why our group has shown the same commitment and consistency when voting on a non-law proposal as when voting on a law proposal, and it is a shame that this same coherence is not seen in some groups that call themselves progressive and left-wing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u28	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u29	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days. I have been very interested in this proposal for a law, as I see a parliamentary group that is genuinely interested in the business world, interested in not leaving Euskadi or the businesses, and I suppose not even the entrepreneurs. What has to be recognized is a step, as this legislature began with a kind invitation from Confebask to visit companies in different fields and EH Bildu refused, claiming that it came from an employer's organization, when today you appeal to, please, not to leave here. In any case, we share with you that we have to work to avoid relocation. We must ensure that companies do not leave Euskadi, because they will share with us that companies are the root of the generation of wealth and work in the country. Therefore, we are with you that you have to work to have more businesses and to make those who stay with us feel comfortable and do not have the temptation to leave. Delocalization is due in most cases to the search for greater competitiveness, which can be achieved in very different ways; there is one, which is that of wage reasons, which we reject and we are not going to enter, and it is not the reason for this debate, although it could also be that a company finds regions and countries with a more favourable support structure, a better organizational ecosystem, logistics, technology and institutional that will allow them greater stability and competitiveness. It is against this variable of relocation that we must fight with the most effort, which means that in Euskadi it is in this field that we must develop, in that of being a welcoming country for competitive companies, with a high degree of technological development, advanced logistics and an institutional framework – I insist – welcoming. That does not mean that we should not worry about creating an internal model of economic development and support for optimal companies because, despite everything, there will be companies that want to relocate, and we must take steps to prevent that from happening. Now, if by moving that bill you want to make this House and those who are beyond this House think that this is a brave and intelligent novelty because you don't do that job from the institutions, that's what you're wrong about. From the Community level, which obliges us in these areas, Regulation 13/2013, referring to all EU funds, points out in Article 71.1 the obligation to repay aid in the event of relocation, and here, in Euskadi, our legislation does not spare any article in each call for aid to highlight the need for its return. Only as examples, the Indartu programme, in its 2018 call order, the last, in its Article 18, on non-compliances, points out that such non-compliances will mean the return of the aid; and, among these non-compliances, Article 18.2.d includes the incurring of business relocation, understanding as such the transfer from the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country of all or part of the production of the beneficiary. The Gauzatu programme, in its 2018 call order, the last, in its article 20.2.3, says: "The relocation of investments financed by this programme will entail the initiation of the timely file of non-compliance and the return of the aid received". And so on all aid orders. This means that the Basque Government is clear that the companies leaving the Basque Country, which are being relocated, have to return the aid received by the Government. And that in the government is clear, and there is no need for EH Bildu to come up with a law to make it appear that the government does not apply in the principle of "If you go, return the received". This does not prevent – and I come back to the beginning – that we must work hard to create a climate of support for the company in Euskadi that not only does it not move, but that we try to get others to move from their territories to come to Euskadi and find a climate of calm, high technological development and a reliable opportunity to develop their companies, even if you then do not visit them when you invite parliamentarians to do so. Finally, it turns out that the government has not now come up with the matter on the line of its proposal, but at the beginning of the legislature they sent this Parliament a legislative timetable including the grant law, a law that will cover what you propose and many more. If the Government had already done so, if the Government had already provided for a reaffirmation of the subject and you already knew it, what would be ahead of your text, if you had the opportunity to work on the draft through amendments? If the return of aid to delocalised companies is regulated in the current legislation, if it is provided for in the legislative timetable to adapt the subsidy regulation, including for different reasons, including relocation, there is no point in processing a law that wants to provide for what is already planned and what is being legislated in order to provide for it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u30	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Forth point on the theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Treaty, Eva Lopez de Lariyabe, Saez de Maturuna EHG, concerning the measures of disorganisation. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. And, well, good morning to all. From Euskal Herria Bildu we present this motion as a result of an inquiry, an inquiry 15 days ago, but we also present this motion as a result of a situation. A situation that is becoming, at least, we would say that worrying; moreover, worrying because no one questions it. A few weeks ago, we brought an interpelation into this Chamber. It was evident that we have a question of structure and that the situation is becoming more and more obscure. The population of the country which we suffer, places men in the first and second rank according to the place where they live, where they work, or enjoy. We said that the social and economic gap between rural and urban areas is clear, and we understand that taking effective measures is more urgent than ever, because we are not going to allow – we said so then too – people of first and second depending on where they live and work. Depopulation is becoming a problem, but this is not what I say, as Mr Lehendakari says, Mr Urkullu told us. He said that the rural environment in the Basque Autonomous Community had problems. Well, he recognized that there are problems; on that we agree, we agree. His words a few weeks ago were as uncanny as to the image that I projected; he said that I projected a catastrophic, alarmist, trembling image... Any government may be interested in the opposition projecting a tremendous image, but it is not the case and it is not my case. I want to show that my intention is to add, to propose, to build, to generate synergies, because we are also obliged to do so, but overcoming partisan ways of patching up problems, the real problems that people living in the rural world have. No catastrophes, we are realistic because reality often places us, repositions us and shows us the ineffectiveness of many decisions. Today we bring data, real data and concrete data and reality-adapted data. Mr Urkullu told us that in the Basque Autonomous Community there were 300 inhabitants per square kilometre. Yeah, I wasn't lying. We tell him that in Araba there are 107 inhabitants per square kilometre. Yeah, we didn't lie either. But what is serious is not in those two data: it is in the third, that Araba without Gasteiz has 28 inhabitants per square kilometer. It might look like we're Badajoz or Ciudad Real. I think we could compare perfectly. This macrocephaly that Gasteiz has, well, supposes the territory is gradually being emptied. All the services and amenities, all are in Gasteiz, so the effect called to the villages and the young people who are in the villages is increasing, I would even say that it can be tragic, because people who leave the countryside are very difficult to come back. Of the four Arabs there are three capitals, the depopulation is becoming more and more striking, and not only Aran, but it is true that the question is less serious in Bisca and in the Gipus, but it is necessary also necessary to take deep measures. Besides the demographic change, the principal services and economic activities are collected in the capitals, which increases the balance between the capital and the other districts. We need to invest in local development, well, we know that, and we need middle-term strategies to deal with. That's my goal today, and I think it must be our goal, even if there's any doubt about it. Euskal Herria Bildu once again places the situation of the rural environment on the game board; a game board where moving pawns without advancing them, so we cannot win the game; a game board where we play the country, not only the country we have, but the country that we are going to leave to our next generations; and a game board where we have to decide which country, which rural environment also, what urban environment, but what territory we want, whether we want it to be balanced or not. Euskal Herria Bildu believes that this is a troubling issue and that is why we are taking it where we understand that action and decision-making can be taken. One year ago, a motion was submitted to the General Councils of Araba, and, well, it came out unanimously, it was voted on and there was a fairly complete agreement and the Basque Government was questioned. From Euskal Herria Bildu, I have said it and I repeat, we believe in a balanced territory, we believe in the peoples, but not only in the peoples, but in the people who live and work in that rural environment, because life is necessary. But we believe that, and that is why we understand that a country pact without partisans on this issue is absolutely essential. We believe in living territory, okay, but we don't believe in theory. We believe that practice must be put forward in people, in peoples and in a primary sector with a future, that is to ensure not only that there is employment, but that the management of the mountains and the territory is in their hands. For us, this is not only an offer, today's motion, but also a dream, and it is also that it is not Euskal Herria Bildu who only believes and claims it: last May 15, big day in many villages, day of St.Isidro Labrador, as it is called, rural agents carried out a campaign in which almost once a day we got a tweet on the phone, in which they claimed through a video how things were, the problems that daily suffer people living in rural areas. They have also placed these demands in the epicenter of the electoral campaign, and it is no less. In addition, it is that in this campaign of May 15th, well, the motto was very easy: "We are here/Hemen Gaude". Surprisingly, it is hardly surprising that the motto is "We are here." It just doesn't look like we're looking that way. Is it necessary to say, "We're here"? So, at first glance, it surprises. On May 15, associations participated..., was not Euskal Herria Bildu, indeed, but was COAG, was UAGA, were the agents that really militate in the rural environment. This motto, that of "We are here/Hemen gaude", I think it should put us back, it should pose to those who debate public policies, and it also forces us to look a little beyond the cities, even the larger population nuclei. Our concern for rural areas is not trembling, I repeat. It's real and besides we just have to look out and listen, it's just that. Our intention is to put this issue in political centrality, to try to raise awareness of those who have in their hands the capacity to act, as well as to seek alliances – that was the goal –, ideas, alternatives, but as a country, to confront it. We are all aware that the problem exists, and it is also that we have three options for the future: one is to assume it, we assume that the rural environment is empty, and we see it passing through and we hope – it is true that that part is comfortable–; the second is to continue pushing, to continue making something change, that little changes for nothing to change – well, they are not the fruits we wanted to expect, but we also hope – and the last is to put a country pact above partisans, above votes and above macroeconomic data. We do not have a magic wand, and I believe that the administrations and governments that have passed through here have not had it either; therefore the need for understanding, coordination and consensus, which was what I expected us to have on the table today. Either of these three options forces us to move. It forces us to move with the pawns forward, not backwards, or to remain still. But it also forces us to ensure that it succeeds, because, if not, this is empty and we as long as we are here and we continue to debate here. Public actions for 40 years, of course, have not helped to curb the rural exodus or even the decline of the primary sector. It's not that they haven't been a success, it's that I could dare say they've even failed. 20 years later we continue to talk about how to revitalize people, how we create jobs, how we keep schools, how we drive trade, the first sector... We're still talking about the same thing. Many of these rural development actions have failed, have not been real public policies, nor with various actors, who actually have diverse resources and put them on the table to develop actions that respond to real needs. No, it wasn't like that. Rather, it has been the emergence of many different bodies and entities, which we all know have managed public resources, yes, indeed, for the rural environment, but without the rural environment. I also understand that we want results and that we want the best. In this house you always want the best for citizenship. So, in this case, never better said, we want the best for people who live in mountain areas and for those who live in rural areas is second division. That is why we need policies in capital letters, not plans or actions; we need interinstitutional, but also interdepartmental, policies in the service of the rural environment. This means ruralising public policies and also ruralising the administration's daily public management; rural development policies which must be implemented and which, of course, must be valued. You must take a photo without complacency, please. A real photo, a diagnosis. These policies will have to be shared with the people living there, in the rural environment, and, if not, we will be inventing them, if we do not do so; horizontal policies. Just as the issue of equality is being moved by all departments, the issue of the rural part should be horizontal, including rurality as an intrinsic part of all measures, areas and departments of the Government. Of course, endogenous policies that have to arise from below, that have to arise from those who really suffer and see the need, because from here, many times, from top to bottom you do not see. And policies that offer opportunities, not only economic development and employment, but also personal opportunities. Everyone has the right, not only to live and work, but also to leisure, to well-being and, of course, to take root. So for all this to happen we need to guarantee..., I would even say that we share responsibilities, rights and duties with everyone: to the Administration, as part of the responsibility it has, because it needs a perspective of the past, of what has happened so far here and why we are talking today here, in 2019, about this, and, above all, of the future, we need a real photo, but a photo that is not black and white, a certain photo. An Administration that will have to put strategies and guidelines from where we are going. We can't go to a hit of choice. We have to look further. An administration that has to guarantee dialogue and, above all, listens to it. And, well, the flexibility of regulations, which belongs not only to the Administration itself, but also to the technical part of the Administration, which has to empathize, which has to become aware of what is going on and realize that the rural environment and the people living there, therefore, live in inferior conditions. The Administration, of course, must be asked for a budget, guaranteed yes, but also a budget guaranteed in the different realities. What do we ask of society? To understand that he also has that part of law, responsibility and duty, but we ask him above all co-responsibility – because the territory is not only of the people who live there, it is of all and of all, it is a common territory – to understand that the problem of depopulation is a shared problem. And, of course, all parties will have to operate proactively for recovery and see it as an opportunity, as an opening of opportunities, even, I would say, to articulate bridges so that the return to the peoples can be facilitated. That is, that the challenge would be not only not to depopulate, but to repopulate. And, well, I have the primary sector, which must assume responsibilities and rights. You have to open up possibilities, you have to guarantee their survival, yes. What we do not know very well is the formula, because, in fact, at the moment we are not guaranteeing, we have not been right. It is called for the sustainable management of the territory, yes, it is called for transparency; we know all that, and indeed it is. We are also going to put the defence of land as a priority and, above all, we are going to ask the administration and the sector to make more investments. Investments in R+D+i, not worth the usual, the formula so far has not been valid, and every time the land is in the hands of fewer people and under multinationals, something that leads us from the precipice down. So today we were presenting this motion – I said, moreover, in the interpellation – a positive, proactive motion, a motion that we understood to be shared; and the three points were very simple and also easy to agree on, above all, because they were already agreed on earlier from Araba and it was almost something that was done. In the first part we propose that the Government comply with the motion of the Arab General Councils and put resources in their departments with the aim of including the rural as something indispensable. In the second part we point out that it has to be a country strategy, above and beyond political parties, to revitalize peoples and repopulate them. And in the third, a rural development law that is already 20 years old, we believe that it is time for it to arrive, to put it on the table, even to debate it, not only to update it, but to debate it among all. It certainly wasn't like that. I'm in shock today. Well, I would have appreciated you waiting for my compromise attempt, but I see there are other interests beyond those who live and work in the villages. Deception, of course, in this supposed negotiation. A game would say that unsavory, and, of course, I see a party that seems to me to deceive people. Of course, our proposal..., and we have just had sex now, in the morning, with Podemos, because it is based on the initial one, because we wanted to bring the depopulation here, because we believe that the subsequent one has been talking about the CAP, talking about digitisation and doing something that the government has to do, which is to present the preliminary draft laws. Nothing more. I mean, in parallel we don't understand anything new or see anything new. From Euskal Herria Bildu we will continue to work to revitalize, repopulate the peoples, to ensure that the primary sector is strategic in the territory, and, of course, we will denounce things when they are not done well. We understand that we must agree on the country we want between all of us, if not, this makes no sense at all. We do not want the peoples, the culture, the people, the typical costumes to end up in ethnographic museums. We want people alive, working and living in rural areas. As simple as that. Finishing up. People go into cities and leave the fields in a troubling state. We need people who want to live and work in the country, and we'll work back from the EH Union to get that goal and fight for a balanced land because we want the people to live. And I'll finish, because I've just got a second. I will end with a reflection by a farmer, who is from the area of Tierra de Campos, Palencia. Gerónimo Aguado is called, Gerónimo Aguado Martínez, a peasant who makes an absolutely impressive reflection, and would invite you to read it. But I'm going to stay with a challenge that challenges us, and I was telling us that this first challenge – a challenge that even translates it into the personal part – is to see if we would be able to implement an inverse migration process, from the city to the countryside. I believe that the objective and the challenge for this House today, beyond talking about depopulation, beyond talking about politics, would be to put that challenge on the table. Let's see if we're able to repopulate, and all of us to one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u32	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u33	Good morning again. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe for her initiative in bringing this non-legislative proposal here, because the depopulation of the rural world is also a problem for Euskadi. We are talking about emptied Spain, but there is also an empty Euskadi or an empty Euskadi. And we can talk a lot about the causes and we will see that the main problem is the ageing of the population, but it turns out that the ageing of the population has an unequal effect. It does not affect all municipalities alike. And in what there is an agreement, there is a consensus among the experts in demographic matters, is that the demographic behaviors that make people go from a village to a city and not come back have to do with three living conditions: the first, the quality of life; the second, economic stability; and the third, the possibility of making work and family life compatible. Without these three conditions, whether there is aging or no aging, people emigrate. And under those three conditions, he doesn't emigrate. No more. Hence these three conditions are essential to the understanding of what happens in our countries; The means of combining life with work and work and family are these three conditions essential. That's why our villages are draining up now. At Gipuco, Beizama, Generation, 16 small villages are being emptied, Biscaian Ereño, Arzentates, Berndo, Lagrandra, Peñacerda, Kanpezu; and Errian Yécora, Moreda de Ávla, Villai, Samanego, etc. And the consequences, the consequences of this destruction, are always serious, because economic damages are productive, because public services cost more and more because they cost more and more, and the disadvantages are also due to environmental and historical property, because the practice of preservation is generally done in the countries. I have not taken the same disappointment as Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, because, obviously, if we do not share a diagnosis of the causes of depopulation, we will hardly share the solutions that are necessary. Our group is critical because after 30 or 40 years of supposed struggle against depopulation in Euskadi, in Araba, but also in Spain, if one conclusion has our group is that it is not enough to give money, it is not enough to make roads, it is not enough to make progress, the supposed progress (first, television) to the villages, it was necessary to make television; then, mobile telephony. Now you have to get them the broadband, let them know what the progress of the city is. That's not enough to stop the depopulation. And in Spain, after implementing these policies for 30 or 40 years, emptied Spain continues to lose five inhabitants per hour, five inhabitants per hour; and, therefore, a cross-cutting approach is needed. And hence the importance of the motion that was adopted at the General Councils of Araba, hence the importance of the GNP presented by EH Bildu, because it was a comprehensive and cross-cutting agreement, and because it also applied an inter-institutional approach: all institutions have to collaborate. This is not just about the parliaments, the councils or the municipalities, it is also about the Basque Government, and that is why our group in the amendment proposed a Basque rural population strategy, because it is necessary for all the institutions to reminisce. But there is also a need for a participatory approach, and this is where we have to listen to the councils, to the gangs, to the municipalities, but also to the opinions of the population. The survey made by the Association of Arab Councils, the opinions of expert people and also the successful experiences – which there are – around the world, out there; even if it doesn't seem like it, Basques and Basques are not the best in everything, we don't invent everything. And when we listen to the population and see the surveys of the Arab Council Association, we see that what is being asked is no longer money, they are no longer roads or better: they are public services, quality public services. They are asking for housing because they have the competence of residential housing, because many municipalities that are depopulating have more than half of the housing that is residential, not for the people who live there. They're asking for education, but not just primary education, they're asking for secondary education too or unitary schools because when young people, young people, have to go to secondary school, they don't come back to town anymore. They are calling for health care and social and health care, as well as care for the elderly, who are increasingly there because young people are leaving. And they're asking for a very curious thing, public transport, in all the surveys of the Arab Council Association say, "We don't want to depend on the private car, don't make us any more roads, please give us public transport." How curious, contrary to what has historically been proposed in this country! And when the conclusions of the Councils, of the Association of Arab Councils, are read, and the general strategic lines for a population plan are set out, curiously, the Association of Arab Councils focuses on empowering community projects, creating community through the improvement of neighbourhood relations, fostering associationism and empowering the Councils, that is, decentralizing the Administration. Because the differential factor that makes municipalities populate in the same region and others that is not community life, is to consider that your people are your community. And that's not what you're referring to anywhere. Therefore, it draws attention that when you read articles, opinions of expert people..., and I will bring only two to finish my intervention: one is from the Professor of Human Geography of the University of Cantabria, Pedro Reques, who says that current policies may be acting in vain, because the measures are not giving the expected results because they are not adequate to the real needs of those places, that is, people are not being heard. But in addition, when we look at a case of success, which has been the repopulation or the fight against the depopulation of the highlands in Scotland, which have recovered 22 % of the population, and one sees the measures they have put in place, it has to be implemented different measures depending on the area and on the business niches, which are essentially based on the provision of equipment, on the provision of affordable and quality housing, on the availability of services, on connectivity and on communications – also, but not only – and on entrepreneurship and on skilled workers, not only on rural employment linked to the primary sector. We also have another expert, Eduardo Malagón, professor of the UPV and evaluator of rural development policies, who tells us about Sweden's experience. It tells us that in Sweden, in order to repopulate the most deprived areas, the mayors of the smaller localities lined up to request their share of immigrants, because they knew that with them they could rejuvenate their municipalities demographically, revitalise them economically and socially and thus improve certain public services. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we know what works and we know what does not work, and what needs to be done is to make the right decision. We must make the right decision, which is why our party believes in the General Assembly of the Arabs with one mouth that it was agreed that it was right, and that this profound reflection was very interesting to bring to the legislature. It was very interesting: I'll change the technical policies, try to find the complication of all institutions, and plan the measurements by a strategy. We know the way, we just have to take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u34	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Euscal Group Group Group Representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. EH Bildu brings this debate to this House on the issue of depopulation. We were told in the interpellation that Spain was empty. From the Group of the European People's Party we sympathize with the situation that some areas, especially in the interior of Spain, are suffering and are suffering, the emptying of their population. It has nothing to do with the space we speak of empty Spain from the interior with the space and territory of the Basque Country. We are surprised that you use this empty Spanish argument, bring the problem of Spain to this House. It does not seem bad to us, it is an advance that brings us the problem of Spain to this House, it seems very important to us. By focusing on the population of the Basque Country, today the population of the Basque Country is 2,206,965, of which 206,000 are immigrants who have arrived in the last five years, mainly. A population similar to that in the Basque Country in 1975. In 1975 the population began to rise, it reached 1983 with 2,148,000, but there was an industrial crisis and again fell in 1995 to 2,094,000. And we've been moving in that fork year after year. The truth is that the population tends to fall, the population here. We do not know how the immigrant population will respond, but the population of the Basque Country, what the data tells us is that by 2031 we will have dropped by about 150,000 people. So that's the data. We have not been proactive in times of good times, when in other parts of Spain the population has grown exponentially. It referred to the Rural Development Act of 21 years ago, April 1998, and also there was talk of depopulation. Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe told us that we have a structural problem, an unsustainable situation and that a solution must be found, because she said that the rural environment today does not offer opportunities. He says he does not offer employment opportunities, he does not offer employment opportunities, and it is becoming more and more difficult to maintain himself. The truth is that it refers to Álava because Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, we can say that the rural environment is a mixed rural environment, a continuous periurban, which has nothing to do with Álava. That's true. We have the 335 councils, which have 25,000 people, approximately 25,500, which gives an average of 73 inhabitants per council, which are between 100 and 30; and then we have 51 municipalities, but there are only 5 that are larger than 3,000 inhabitants. Therefore, we have many scattered areas in little space. The population is what it is. The structure is singular, it is singular, we have to say it. The area of Rioja Alavesa, I think it is the one that best resists the invitation because it has a star product, which is wine, a star product that generates a production that has a glamorous future, that takes value, that has a service sector around this activity that is very powerful, and somehow here it is maintained. And in the rest, the agricultural and livestock activity in the rest of Álava has undergone a major transformation, and thanks to science and continuous innovations, production and food security have been increased, and the work of farmers and farmers has been accelerated, facilitated, so that farms increase in volume but need much less labour, and the one they need is increasingly specialized. We could say that this makes it easier not to live on the feet of exploitation, and in some cases it is chosen to fix residence in the nearby cores of the largest population. What really happens is, well, a displacement of the population to larger cores because, in fact, they have those services or that endowment that the small people, the small council, do not have. You were telling us about how it is distributed, you were telling us about territorial imbalance in Álava, and you were telling us that 32% is agricultural space, 63% is natural space and 5% is urban space, and you were quoting it as an imbalance. We see it as a space of opportunity, it gives us the capacity to expand livestock farms. We produce only 30% of the meat we consume, so I think we have room to expand livestock production, but it is not done. So, what's going on? Don't we feel like it? We don't have ambition. Have we lost our passion? How to make farms more profitable? Do we strive to get there or, well, "Here I stand and here I am, and here I am"? I don't know. This space gives us the ability to process agricultural products, but we don't. We are as we were, we have very low transformation activity. Leisure, cultural, nature-related tourist activities: little. From the Group of the European People's Party we have insisted in this House, as active and passive, on the need to promote economic activities complementary to agricultural and livestock activity. The PDRS, the CAP policies facilitate this, but we have not, we do not; therefore, it is a deficit that we have been dragging forward. New productions can also be implemented, easy to carry and can be complementary. I saw a few days ago a documentary, the production of spirulina, which is easy and simple, highly sustainable, which is affordable to put it on. But neither do we worry about new productions that may be; or, if we worry, why don't they arise? Because this is a highly demanded product, highly well paid; therefore, why don't we do that? And, as I say, like this example there are many others. I want to repeat: do we want to generate economic activities in rural areas or do we look more at that job from 8 to 15 and "Okay, I settle for that"? Because sometimes that happens too. We, from the Group of the European People's Party, the initiative presented by Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe was a bit unique, i.e. that the Basque Parliament urged the House to comply with an agreement that had been approved at its meetings. More or less, it comes to say, that we urge the parliament to comply with that. That is what comes to us; an agreement that has been fulfilled there, that we urge you to comply with it. I believe that Parliament, this House and the Basque Government have their lines of work in order to be able to push the PDRS well in line with reality, which has a common agricultural policy where it can implement measures to develop economic activities in rural areas; and therefore we have agreed in the amendment which we believe refers to this, because we urge the Government to maintain a proactive stance on the needs and demands of rural areas, to defend that the new CAP proposes a model of positive discrimination for rural development projects and measures to be implemented in areas with specific handicaps and in areas where the population is at risk of disappearing. We also urge the Basque Government, together with the outside parliaments, to continue to promote measures to accelerate the complete digitization of our rural areas, so as to promote economic activities and employment and future opportunities in our environments. And, indeed, we insist that we must bring the new rural development law adapted to the new realities. We, as a People's Group, want and aspire to achieve people and prosperity, and for this we consider it essential to design specific programmes that promote entrepreneurship and job creation in rural areas. These are key aspects: employment, housing and the services sector. Mr Becerra told us about public transport in rural areas. I live on the road and I see the public transport bus passing by empty. Of course we ask, but then "It doesn't work for me, my schedule is different", and when there is little population it is very difficult to do. In some cases, transport is on demand and practically not used. Do you know what they do in northern Scotland? Do you know what they're doing? They don't expand the roads, no. To go around Lake Ness you have to stop when a front car comes, you have to pee, and then you ask them, "Hey, why don't they expand the roads? No, no, because we want the one who comes to stay and not move." So clear. I mean, move as little as possible. They don't expand the roads, it's their concept. But probably the Scot who's gone there has a different concept than what we have. We want to be in rural and urban environments and we want to come and go, fast, agile, and we want everything, both. And that's more complicated. We don't give up anything. We want everything. That sounds good to me, but that's complicated. So, having sustainable transport in rural areas is practically impossible with public transport.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u36	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u37	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have taken an interesting initiative, will come to approve the rural development plans, the local plans for them to then be incorporated into the PDRS of the Autonomous Community, and I believe that the measures can be put in there. It is one of the fundamental ways, because what you approved in Juntas de Álava goes in that line. He's on that line. There's no other way!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u38	Please go to the end. Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u39	President, ladies and gentlemen. We agree, we share that depopulation is one of the great problems of politics, and very recently we had the opportunity to have European experts here, who were talking about the ten great challenges of the century. And among the ten great challenges of the century is depopulation, there is the growing concentration in urban centers, and, obviously, that has a direct affection for all people. Some are affected by their way of life – those living in the rural world – but all citizens are affected by countless things. Whether there is a powerful rural world is good to fight climate change, it is good for the environment, it is good for food, it is good to fight desertification, to avoid fires, to avoid pests, to avoid imbalances of nature... That is to say, depopulation has a direct consequence on the whole of humanity, and that is why it is a problem that the whole planet already has on a horizon, and very especially the European Union, which knows that it is one of the great challenges of this century, because it is a trend that, if it is not corrected, will increase with the concentration of populations, no longer only in the abandonment of the rural environment, but a concentration in the big cities, in the larger cities, also in relation to the smaller cities. Because also between smaller cities and larger cities there is a difference in services, opportunities, quality of life, etc. We agree that the ageing of local populations must be addressed – this is one of the obvious problems – also with the lack of generational relief in rural activities; it is necessary to address this issue more accurately than is being done. Indeed, we must bet on setting people in the rural world and perhaps, why not, that there may also be citizens of cities who think, if conditions exist, that in the rural world they can have a better quality of life. We therefore agree on the need to continue working in the area of employment, education, health, transport, social services, the implementation of technological tools, leisure, cultural heritage, housing... And on that very recently, in this very House, a great deal of information was poured into what is being done. The lehendakari, on behalf of the Government, to the question that has motivated this motion today responded with many data, both in the field of health and education, as well as in the field of housing, and in that of European aid, as well as in the impetus of mountain associations... Well, here we gave data on health centers, we gave data on public schools, we gave data on investment in infrastructure, in services... Well, I think that in relation to that inquiry there was a development of very important data. Therefore, it seems to me that it would also be reasonable not to raise this matter as an apocalyptic matter, as white or black, as all evil and only from now on it can be all right if certain things are done. No, no, I believe that the best way to avoid what was proposed here, that we do not have to include partisan attitudes here but that we all have to go to one, we have to seek a consensus, we have to make a comprehensive pact... Man, the best way to do this is to establish, in principle, diagnoses that are concrete, that are not plagued with generalities, that lead to a visualization of what is needed, that, in fact, is different in Álava and Bizkaia, and in Gipuzkoa, is different in high mountain populations and in La Llanada, is different in populations of a certain size and in others that are double or more. Well, there's a diversity of situations that can't be understood as being all wrong. I believe that part of the approach that has been intended to be taken by the author of the initiative is that which, in some way, produces a certain rejection of the agreement, because it generates such an apocalyptic vision that some, of course, do not share it. If we enter into a much more reasoned vision, much more quantified, much less titrated with great slogans, we will probably be able to advance that idea, that pact, and, well, try to add all the political forces, as was claimed here. But I want to dwell only on one aspect to conclude this intervention, which does not seem to me to be the least and seems to me rather the opposite, which is the largest, which is the most important. And it is that the Basque Parliament cannot be a chamber devoted to poetry. Poetry, in any case, when it's done, you have to take it to the prose, the prose, you have to take it to the numbers, and the numbers to the executions. And that means that between December and December there cannot be a House without Budgets. There can be no Government without Budgets. It is not possible to want the best for the world and to deny the fundamental and main tool for such policies. And I think this is where that capacity to agree, that courage, that take risks so that today we could have political tools that in the rural world were also influencing and influencing all those sectoral areas that arise here. Policy, active policy and executive policy are based on the adoption of the budgets. We have had a magnificent opportunity to carry them forward, but at the time of truth, I do not know whether the stage fear, the trembling of rivalry or what else has prevented there from being a sufficient majority here to be able to address a budget that would have dealt with many of the things that arise today. Therefore, in conclusion, less poetry, more prose, more numbers, i.e., budgets that are executable; because, if not, we will see that between budget and budget here everyone comes to tell their story, comes to tell their book, but then there are no instruments to be able to carry it forward. It is not about preaching, it is about giving wheat – and never better said – in the rural world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u40	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u41	The head of the table, chief of the department, members of the legislature. Good noon, everyone. If what was involved with this motion was to try to show that the proponents were concerned about rural development and the others were not, they went astray. If it is a question of putting the matter on Parliament's agenda, putting it back on the political agenda and discussing the issue, then the road seems to us to be much more interesting. However, a couple of previous assessments. The issue, as Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe already pointed out in the inquiry into the origin of this motion, was brought up as a result of the debate that was created in Spanish lands about empty Spain. And so, to get out, what happens in Euskadi has nothing to do with that term coined during the campaign for Congress and the Senate. The Basque rural reality and emptied Spain are concepts that have nothing to do with, neither in terms of abandonment, nor in the efforts that the administrations make, nor in their own political conception; they are, to say the least, two opposing worlds. The second assessment is that we cannot come up with a motion calling for us to approve what the Arab General Councils have already approved, even if it is only in what involves the Basque Government. Nor can we ask this Parliament to ask the parliaments of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa to apply as approved by the Arab General Councils. This Parliament is a representation of the citizens elected to promote the work of the Basque Government and to control its action. It is not to tell the outlaws what they should or should not do, that is what their General Councils are for. And that, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, you should know, as you bear the dual responsibility of parliamentarian and junta. More when the motion of the Arab General Councils to which it refers dates from a year ago. No one's worried about anything in that year? Has it not occurred to you and your joint groups in that year to bring the matter to the appropriate general meetings? Hasn't that debate been reverberated in a year at other general meetings, such as today's in this Parliament? If that proposal was approved unanimously by the General Councils of Araba, it would seem logical to have worked on it, adapted to each institution, but not mimetized, because in this Parliament we should not, for example, approve that the Araba Parliament creates an institutional forum to address rural development; the same is not the best thing to approve in this Parliament a proposal which concerns the Government and which was approved by the General Councils of Araba, which says: "The General Councils urge the Government to maintain a proactive stance on the needs and demands of the Alaves rural areas". Of course, we could, but I suppose referring to the whole Basque rural environment, including Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, although we all know that rural, rural, is Arab. Having said that, and corrected in the amendment we had tabled, it is worth a brief tour of the Basque rural world. As I said at the beginning, for the first time, ruralism in Euskadi is very relative if we compare it with other environments close to the European Union, and, of course, very far away from empty Spain. However, there is, although the isolation of a people from the cities is also enormously relative and depends on who speaks, because, while there are peoples, for example, in Romania, the European Union, or in the Scottish Highlands, far away from a very large city, let us put 3,000 inhabitants, which would be where certain public services can concentrate, in Castile the distances would be only great; in Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia that would be minimal, in the most extreme cases; and in Araba it is only a little higher. In addition, these distances, in the case of Euskadi, are very well communicated distances. That doesn't mean there's no rurality. There is this with regard to services, to which services are more easily accessible in large towns and there is a percentage of people living in population units who do not have them in the village itself in a continuous way; what is to be considered, though it is a matter of relative rurality. And it is not because the Basque Government and the outlaws have not been fully used in the matter, and here, yes, here I will expressly quote the Arab Foreign Ministry, that the issue has it on its frontline of political action, because it knows that the matter of rural development is transcendental in this territory. The Basque Government, only from the Vice-Advisory of Agriculture, only from that Vice-Advisory, in the last three years has proceeded, from all the subsidized programmes it has intended for rural development – the Public Erein, the Private Erein, Itsaspen, Leader and the Social Events Financing Programme – has spent more than €43 million. That amount, which may always seem insufficient, is very important. But it also funds projects that must fit with the programming of priorities set by each rural development association in which the actors of the area participate: municipalities, administrative boards, social, cultural agents, agricultural unions. That is to say, they are programmes developed participatoryly and in which each region decides what are the priorities for its citizens in each programming period. There is money – plenty of money – and there is participation. Living in the rural world is, when one is born, an obligation, but as life progresses it can become a voluntary act, and in Euskadi it is not, of course, heroic; which does not mean that it is exempt from a certain merit, derived from accepting to live with a certain inequality, at least as regards asymmetry in the proximity of public services with which the Administration equips citizens of the cities with the greatest concentration of population, which, being to some extent unfair, has a certain logic in terms of the distribution of public resources, although it is intended to establish an objective measure of justice, at least as regards public services, no inhabitant of the rural world of Euskadi lacks the social, health and educational care received by an inhabitant of the city. It is true that, probably, in both health and education, the inhabitant of the rural world, in order to access both a specialized health service and a school, has to travel somewhat further than the urbanite, but, beyond that asymmetry, the treatment and availability are the same. And all this has been possible thanks to the actions of the public administrations, which have been listening to the citizens of the rural world to assist them to the extent of their budgetary possibilities. And by the way, by the way, always paying attention to significantly lower per capita service ratios in rural areas, because otherwise there would be no understanding of the amount of public services that cater to citizens living in rural areas. As you would not understand, and as much as you, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, did not discuss the subject in the question of a month ago to the lehendakari – read the record and you will see that what I am saying is true – the effort you are making to bring broadband to the rural world, because you said, "And what do I want rural broadband for, for that I am not going to live in a village," he said. Household investment in this area is much higher in the rural world than in the urban world. I am sure, in any case, that the inhabitants of rural areas are delighted to have access in the same way as a citizen of Dato Street to all the advantages and services that broadband access allows them, and probably also to all their disadvantages, that having Twitter, sometimes more than informative, is disturbing. That is to say, the rural world, which here is less rural than elsewhere, and of course, much less than in empty Spain, has public resources – always better – for rural life, at least as far as these public services are concerned, which I am not talking about having a Zara next door; that is to say, the issue is very similar, which is enjoyed in the rural municipality and in the Gran Via de Bilbao in terms of public services. One problem is that there is only two-way dialogue between the rural world and the administration, and I do not say that this does not have to be, that it has to be, but the problem of the rural world is not its relationship with the administration, which understands and defends that world – as I have already told you –: the problem is that the rural and urban worlds often seem separate, and some, the urban ones, have not known, do not know how to put themselves in the place of those who live in the rural world. It cannot be that the urbanite, who normally only enters the rural world at leisure, does not finish understanding the logic of life in the rural world, lacking the proximity of some services that urban people enjoy permanently. Today, at least in the administration, that debate has been overtaken, and the example is the current Rural Development Act. Even though it is precious, it is precious as a law in its conception, it has far from being ideal in its practical application; therefore the Government committed itself in the legislative calendar to amend it, and therefore we ask it in our transaction, to do so. For this law must be the instrument that catalyzes the dialogue between the urban and rural worlds, so that they are mutually recognized, understood and, above all, the first, the urban, assumes that the second requires a solidarity improvement of its services. More than asking the administrations to address the problem of the rural world, which is basically a problem of territorial balance, because the administrations understand it, it is about getting the urban world, which brings together more than 80% of the Basque population, to stop expressing itself with pain or compassion of the inhabitants of the rural environment and sometimes, too often, with superiority, and understanding that the existence of the rural nuclei, of the people living in the rural world, is a necessity for the existence of a balanced country territorially, socially balanced, a country that knows how to maintain its original essences and a country that thinks that the sustainable future is in the horizontal distribution of all activity. Booker T already said that. Washington: "No people can prosper until they learn that there is as much dignity in building a field as there is in writing a poem." When the urban world understands that supporting the sustainability and development of the rural world is essential for the overall maintenance and growth of the country, this issue will have been resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria, again. I have to confess that I am hallucinating, I am hallucinating; that is, from all the parties, and I will start with a phrase that is from my colleague Gabi, whom I believe you will know, because in this campaign he has accompanied me. He said it the other day and I recorded it, and it's like, "In our villages...", Mr. Telleria, "... We can have Netflix, I think it's called that, we can have Twitter, broadband speed, we can have a 45-inch television, but we can't buy a bread bar, we can't buy a lettuce and, of course, we can't get on that bus that passes through the empty door, because we don't believe in the social profitability of things." I'm sorry, and I am. And are you going to tell me what can or cannot be brought to this Parliament, what can be discussed or not in this House? Forgive me, we are bringing a problem that Mr Urkullu, the lehendakari himself, the other day acknowledged that there was, we have brought a problem that exists. Moreover, we have brought..., and I think I have to regret that you yourselves – some of you, I think you have not even read the motion – have agreed on one thing at the General Councils of Álava and when you bring it here tell me that it has nothing to do with it, that is, I am but hurt and ashamed, really. Of course, Euskal Herria Bildu agreed with the PNV two years ago to draw up a report on the issue of depopulation and the PNV agreed, got out, made and made a diagnosis, and above it was super interesting. So, I think we share something in that, but so far, little more. I have to regret that they are relativizing the problem. It is that the problem exists, it is that this is being emptied, it is that the people have fewer and fewer people, it is that the sector has fewer and fewer people, it is that there is no employment in the people, it is that it cannot be reconciled. But that's the way it is, and I'm not saying it, Mr. Urkullu said it and we hear it every day. Mr. Prieto, your own joint group said it the other day, all measures. Don't talk to me about whether I can do poetry or I can't do poetry. Please! Please! To the People's Party, Mrs López de Ocariz, I don't think you've read the motion, really. And, of course, that this is not Spain I have absolutely clear. And that this is a Basque oasis, I'm also sure it isn't. But it's less bad that it's not a precedent to compare us to Spain, because I think the situation is better, but that's not why it's good. The primary sector, indeed, as a space of opportunity, I share that. But where are the opportunities? If there are no people working, if there are no opportunities! I mean, we're asking them... Why doesn't anyone want to stay in the primary sector? Because it's not profitable, because you can't live on it if you take the help away from us. It's something as simple as that. Because nobody wants to work 24 hours a day while the rest work from 6 to 2. Please! What is it, that we have to demand more from people who are already in the countryside than the rest? A little please. Speaking of school transportation. Transport. In the Committee on Education, over and over again, the People's Party has come to demand school transport, and today you tell me that transport is empty, that nothing happens. Well, come on, okay. To the Socialist Party. To agree with the motion, I do not understand why they will vote against it. And, well, you speak of rejection, of apocalypse. No, I'm not talking about apocalypse, I'm raising a situation that's absolutely certain, it's just a walk through the southern Araba area. And, of course, no slogans. And, of course, bringing the December budget agreement here to talk about depopulation seems to me to be even unworthy, I would say. And to put an end to Mr Tellería, 33 % of Araba's GDP is, in fact, industrial. We could say that Araba is the most industrialized territory of the Basque Autonomous Community, that is so. So let's take a look at the situation of the rest of the people and the rest of the territory. Of course, this is not about rural development policies alone; it is about policies that the Department of Housing, the Department of Transport... In short, that the Basque Government is involved, because it is its obligation as a government that it is. True, he tells us that he has put in 43 million euros; the other day Mr Urkullu told us that he had put in 60 million euros. For, forgive me, this is even more, if you want, a failure, the failure of a model of rural development policies that has served nothing. I'm so sorry. I simply ask for the point vote, and I simply want to say and point out that the motion that I think is going to come forward today, of course, has nothing to do with the trunk of the motion that was the first, of course, it does not speak of rural development and, of course, has nothing to do with the issue that we have tried to discuss here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u44	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u45	Okay. I believe that in this debate we are fluctuating between whether there is a problem or no problem, and in the end, the groups supporting the Government assume that there is a problem, but they say it as between teeth, so that we do not notice too much. I could agree with Mr Telleria that the reasons why some regions of Euskadi are being emptied are not the same as those for which whole provinces of Spain are being emptied, but that is what is happening; it is a real fact, there is nothing but looking at demographic and population statistics. And before that there are diagnoses, Mr. Prieto. This diagnosis that the Association of Councils has made in Araba is not plagued by generalities. They've been doing one-on-one surveys of people living in rural municipalities. And here it does not say that it is all wrong, as we have not said either our group or the proposing group, nor have we raised the apocalypse. What we are saying is that the measures proposed so far have not worked. And one of the things I like most about discussing with Mr Tellería is that in the end I end up reaffirming myself in my speech, because Mr Tellería has said that we have spent a lot of money, 43 million euros, and it is not helping to curb depopulation, which is exactly the thesis our group maintains. If that money is devoted, as Mrs López de Ocariz says, to facilitating entrepreneurship, I completely agree. What is the economic dynamism of the rural world? It's just that we have no doubt about that. But I do want to make it clear here that economic dynamism in the rural world is not demographic dynamism. Not by settling there economic activities we settle the population, because that population, in addition to wanting to work and that the work is profitable – there Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe has given in the key – they need to make a work life and a family life compatible with quality public services. And then the next part of the debate would come, and it is: do they have enough public services? Mr Telleria says they do, and they have more flexible ratios, and the government has applied more flexible ratios. It couldn't be any other way. They have to be better and more flexible ratios because the rural world to Basque society brings a series of values – brings a series of values which are also economic–, which are conservation of the environment, which are conservation of heritage, et cetera, et cetera Mr Prieto has also said that they need to be assessed in the form of services. But we will have to admit that they are not enough if even with all these ratios we are not succeeding in curbing that depopulation. And one example is digitization. If digitization will only serve us to see the Save me And this leads me to think of the compromise reached by the groups that support the government with the People's Party, because, basically, what you say is digitisation – but they don't say for what – and more CAP money. And I see the PNV and the PP perfectly in this agreement, but I have not just seen, Mr Prieto, the Socialist Party. More CAP money for what? What is the CAP money for right now in the rural world? The CAP money goes to the big owners, the big landowners. And those headlines with that money are buying the lands that are abandoned in the villages, and they are getting a land grabbing and a last-minute grabbing of power, with which they are going to dialogue with Mr. Telleria..., and I say dialogue... No, they are going to impose on the Administration what is possible and what cannot be done in the rural world. It is the great landlords who are saying what is done and what is not done. And I see the People's Party in Alava there and I see the PNV too, but I don't see you, and that surprises me. That is why we are also going to ask for the point vote, to give you the opportunity to either either oppose what you have signed or at least abstain, because, of course, it is neither progressive nor sensible for a left-wing party to support more CAP money to favour landowners and the concentration of power in the rural world. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u46	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Popular. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u47	Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, I have spoken of public transport, I have not spoken of school transport. Indeed, school transport is causing many families to move. That's it. "I believe that we have presented it here and that is why I have not insisted, and because it has not given me time," that is one of the fundamental issues that has caused many families to move. Why? Well, because of that rigidity of "You've gone from high school, you can't anymore"; then, the family has some children in some conditions, others in others, and, in fact, they are displaced. Indeed. And that's one of the issues we've been very insistent on here, such as housing and land management, and what urbanization plans we have in town halls and how many meters it takes for a housing, and there's no rental housing... Indeed, in housing we also have a problem. But, look, we haven't talked about something that I think is very important, and it seems to me that it is the climate in social relations, how they are cultivated, and especially in administrative boards. And you know, when a new farmer or farmer neighbor is going to settle on an administrative board, he's rejected. He's rejected, yes. Why? Because he's already going to occupy, he's going to be one more at the distribution of communal property. Yeah, that happens, that happens, and I can give you village names. So, incoming, rejection. "Don't let them come any more, we've got enough." Okay? That's what happens. And they speak on their own initiative... what the initiative says is that the Basque Government will comply with the motion that was approved in Juntas. Hey, but is the Basque Government going to make the inter-institutional table that you have called on the House to do? No, no, If you are called to participate, you will participate, of course, like the rest, but it is that, really, I have not understood this initiative, I have not understood it. So, tell us about it. If you're going to an administrative board to say that I'm going to install this production, it's probably, in the end, very expensive for you to install it, and it depends on who, too. You know that too. And there is a point that they say about aspects that they have to value at that table, and it says: "The needs of the elderly, as a result of the high rates of ageing in rural areas of the historical territory of Álava, in order to maintain and improve their quality of life and their home root." I'm going to tell you what's going on in my board of directors, which I'm on, that I'm going to the council. In April, 90-year-old neighbors were given a receipt for not going to the streets. What do you think? With degree of dependence three. What do you think? Is that okay with you? And you know why some yes and others don't? It's because the children are going to see them. Get the fuck out of here, get the fuck out of here! Because those kids use public spaces. That's happening, that's real, from today. And whoever doesn't want to pay that penalty, turns out he has to give up going to see his kids. Hey, that's happening. Find out! Hey, they're friends of yours, go and report back. That's what happens. And do you know what social relationships are cultivated in some boards of directors? You know? They invite a certain population to leave, they invite them to leave, to disembark. So, let's be realistic, let's adjust to reality. And let's also see what a proactive attitude we have for farmers, farmers and the people we live in.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u49	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Becerra, it is not necessary for me to propose that the compromise amendment be voted on by points in order to give me some chance, because I am warning you from now on that we are going to vote on the three points. Therefore, in any case, if you prevent points from voting, it is because you are in your best interest and intend to vote on them; otherwise, do not waste your time. And in the meantime, as long as you think about it, whether you ask for the vote on points or not, I would like you to bring to this Parliament the list of those great landowners in the rural world in the Basque Country, to know whether it is a non-progressive policy to ask for rural development and a fight against depopulation from European funds, which is what this raises. Because we are not talking about the CAP in an unlimited approach, or in an approach that escapes what Basque politics is, but we are doing it within the Basque Country, and, therefore, perhaps, as Groucho Marx said, "I was so busy writing the criticism that I forgot to read the book." Then perhaps you did not read what the amendment said well and then came to you, because, I don't know, perhaps the Duchess of Alba will find out who and has brought him here. Well, that's not the situation, you know, and therefore, in the end, weighing things up to the debate that we're doing doesn't go well either. Mrs. Lopez de Arroyabe, you say you're hallucinated, you're hurt, you're embarrassed. It's just that you're hallucinating, hurting and embarrassing yourself, that is, it's a personal problem, not transferring it to the House. You get irritated with tremendous ease and you also think that you are allowed exclusively to talk about the rural world. And, of course, this, at last, in a House where we have to talk about everything, so it seems too pretentious to me. And that leads him to have to exaggerate everything. And as everything exaggerates, in the end, of course, when you propose a pact you do not know in what terms you propose that pact, because, of course, if from the groups of the Government, as it cannot be otherwise, we try to dimension the problem of depopulation and to dimension the policies that are made, you say that it is that we relativize the problem of depopulation. It is, of course, that it is absolutely impossible to reach an agreement with those views. You hallucinating, embarrassing yourself and hurting yourself, it's that you get away from the deals. And this is the big problem you have, but don't transfer it to others. How is a government that is doing housing policies in the rural world not going to pose in this House that it is doing them? Or what is it doing in telecommunications, or does it have health centres and public education centres that it attends and that also shows the number of users and the number of pupils that is being maintained in recent years? Of course, it's just that these are realities. And you pose it as if they were all making a march, all with the hatillo towards the city... Anyway, we have to scale up the problems. Because, moreover, in the Basque Country and in the rural sector, as has been proposed here, and very specifically in Álava, there are areas, there are regions that have an extraordinary economic potential and that have a very good employment development and a very good standard of living, and that is also recognized. And, therefore, in the Basque Country you have to try to dimension things, but you don't dimension them, you here... , who is everyone to his own, and, of course, wants to get us into a loop in which we are not and are not going to be, because he does not obey reality. And he didn't like it, but it's the reality. You come here to do poetry, because when you want to intervene in politics, when you want to influence politics, when you want to be taken into account in politics, you condition the fundamental tools and influence the fundamental tools. And it does so in the Budgets, of course, because what an institution like this Parliament does and what a government does is approve the Budgets and carry them forward. And that is the political action of all governments everywhere. But, of course, you were that yes, no, yes, no, and the last leaf of the margarita was that no. But that was the problem, they were giving expectations that there would be agreement, and in the end there was no agreement. And at the moment the policies that are brought here in GNP, in motions, in whatever you want, have a difficulty, which is that of what budget is made: with which you have rejected? And this is poetry, poetry is coming here, giving or appearing to give lessons, but then not making decisions of the important ones. This is poetry. That's why I was inviting you to have poetry turn it into prose, prose into numbers and numbers into decisions, but it still seems like it's far from that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u50	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u51	Good afternoon. No, I'm not to blame for having her hallucinated, hurt... You've got me a little disoriented. That's true, because I really don't know what you mean, really. I don't know. And, look, Mr. Becerra, you also sometimes disorient me. He didn't make fake news today. I remember when the first DOTs were made. There was a great debate there between those who had urban vision and those who did not. And if the first draft was of a development, let's say, centrifuge, the further away you were from the capital the less you had of services and weight, we got from the Department of Agriculture to make a DOT with reticular development, which looks more like the reticular than the centrifuge. I mean, it's not just money, it's drawing on the plane, the ideas can be. Now, that the most important thing is money is also true, because, normally, what is demanded is money. Or perhaps we could pass on to them in the Budgets affection for the peoples, we can give affection to the peoples; that is very difficult to achieve. Because in the background they also want the Internet. If they didn't have the Internet and couldn't see Netflix, they'd be protesting. What's the point? Also. What do they want the Internet for, besides watching Netflix, if they can't buy the bread? Well, to buy the bread, to be able to generate companies that work on the Internet. That's what they want the Internet for. And if they also want to see Netflix or beyond, there they do, but, obviously, that's what they want it for. And the people, look, they're not so bad. Look at Eustat, the last Eustat of GDP per capita And then, from there... What do you mean you didn't use the money, Mr. Becerra, to stop the depopulation? Do you know why? "In spite of everything, since there is depopulation, the money has not stopped it." No, no, You know you haven't stopped him? I think it has slowed it down, I think that if there had been no budget dedicated to that we would be in a much worse situation. Because the problem is not rural depopulation, it is the obsession we have to focus on the big inefficient cities. And a very high percentage of those who are here, even if we go from rural, we are registered in urban worlds, important and inefficient. Even Scotland, which you have set as an example... Of course, Scotland has nothing to do with this, the distances from Scotland are immense. Do you know where the agency that has been working as a madman for 50 years – 50 years and has achieved something – knows where it is? In Inverness. In case, the program's smarts live in a city of 60,000 inhabitants. Just in case. Okay, that kind of thing, I want you to know. And finally, we must make it fatal. They want to portray us, we make it fatal, but this debate, which came out at an election moment, for an election campaign, because a theme of a year ago was resurrected just before the municipal campaign began... I will only remind you of one thing: do you know, in Álava, the most rural territory, in the rural regions who have won the elections? Us. Us. Do you know how many we can get? Zero. That for us is a ratification that the rural development policy we do is enjoying. That we can improve it? Of course, like everything else, but that's the result. After a lot of years we continue to vote for ourselves who win in the rural territory of Álava one and another election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 27; contrarys, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u53	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Basque Sociists, and Eucabertarians, the middle-line correction that has been signed by the teams. Yeah, it's all the points. Wait, wait, stop. No problem, I guess. [[Berber]] How? One and two, and the third away. Okay! We vote one and two points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u54	So one and two points have been accepted. Next, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u55	So the third point has been unanimously accepted. Five point in theme list: "Motion, Edurne García Urgumbe, introduced together by the congressman of the Podemos, about the Turkish model. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u56	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. During this parliamentary term we have had the opportunity, on several occasions, to discuss the tourism model of the Basque Country. From Elkarrekin We have always wanted to bet on reflection and have focused on the importance of rethinking the foundations of the current model; for this, it is essential to focus on the reality of the Basque municipalities and the existing imbalance. In the Basque cities, clearly in the historical centres of Donosti, Bilbao and, to a lesser extent, Gasteiz, as well as in some coastal localities or La Rioja Alavesa, the expected and unforeseen consequences are beginning to be experienced... [[Berber]] Do I talk when the others shut up?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u57	Any time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u58	Great. As I said and as everyone was listening, in the Basque cities they are beginning to experience the expected and unforeseen consequences of the determined commitment of the Basque institutions to sell Euskadi as an opportunity territory in the global market of tour operators; a market in which the cities, the singular spaces, the so-called cultural offer, are offered as a product that seeks to attract investments, which translate into increased tourist flows to the affected territory. The economic impact of activities directly or indirectly related to tourism cannot be ignored in the same way as the environmental, social, cultural and anthropological impact of tourism. They are known and studied effects during the last decades in cities and places that they have known, and know, the negative impacts of uncontrolled tourism. After the change, a few months ago, in the direction of the department, headed today by Mrs Pérez Ezquerra, seems to us to be an appropriate time to face up to the responsibility of taking effective measures to help combat the negative consequences of poor management and a phenomenon that, like tourism, is undoubtedly global. From Elkarrekin We have already pointed out in previous interventions that the debate of the tourism model is also the debate on the city model and on urban planning. The model of urbanization of Basque cities, in the last decade, has been oriented, as we said, to the tourist offer itself and to the attraction of visitors to it. An obvious bet on concrete, where homes and large infrastructure continue to be built and projected. Tourism accounts for 6% of the wealth in Euskadi, but when it promotes tourism flows in an uncontrolled way it has a negative impact on Basque society and the natural environment. Let us not overlook the fact that the tourist is one more effect and, to a large extent, a victim of the commercial strategies of the international tourism industry, which favors the rapid consumption of the places visited to the detriment of other less profitable formulas. It is not, under any circumstances, a question of demonizing the figure of the tourist, but of extending the framework of the analysis of the purely economicist to a more social point of view. It is not difficult to know some of the social consequences we are talking about. There is nothing but listening to the people who suffer the consequences every day, and we cannot, in any way, try to deny reality and look elsewhere. Consider, for example, the job insecurity of women workers in the sector and the destruction of the material and intangible heritage of historical centres. In addition to the indiscriminate search for an increase in tourists, it is a direct cause of phenomena such as gentrification, which is taking place in the historical cases of the Basque capitals and which directly affects the daily lives of neighbours and neighbours, e.g. in the form of a disproportionate rise in the rents of homes and properties as a result of the break-up of tourist flats; in addition to the problems of coexistence that sometimes generates this new form of forced coexistence in different and different ways of life. There are large companies that buy whole buildings and rent them exclusively to tourists at deorbited prices. We have said this many times: we must regulate and control activity with effective measures, which are already applied in other cities. Meanwhile, the government has always tried, when we have taken this issue out, to reduce it all to the dichotomy between tourismophobia and tourismophile, in which simplifications and the lack of analytical rigour go hand in hand with surprising communication campaigns, the lack of assumption of the consequences and negative impacts of tourism in our cities and villages, which are also spared by helpful messages of the kind "In Basque the tourism sector still has room for growth", "Among the people in general there is no such perception that there is saturation", or that "This is neither Barcelona nor Mallorca". Of course, it is neither Barcelona nor Mallorca, but there are negative impacts that we have to recognise and measures that we have to face. They also know that saying these things does not alleviate the situation at all in places such as the Old Part of Donostia or the Old Town of Bilbao, since in these sectors, for example, they see that their right to access a home is further curtailed because the rents are fired and the quality of life of the neighbours is further enhanced. As we have said before, this often leads women workers in the tourism sector to see their working conditions deteriorate and the sector itself becomes precarious. We have said this many times here: high-quality tourism must have high-quality jobs. According to data from the association of neighbors of the Old Party of Donosti, there live permanently about 6,000 people, and the offer, between tourist flats, apartments and hotels, is almost 1,600 beds, which is a hostel every 99 inhabitants. With this data in view, the neighbors fear that this neighborhood will eventually become a theme park where you could not live and that, as has happened in so many other places, for this reason you will lose all your appeal. In fact, overexploitation of tourism contrasts with another reality: the lack of equipment for those who live there all year round. The growth of the Old Party has focused exclusively on tourism, which generates even more anger and concern on the part of neighbours. Other data that are contrasted and that show the scope of this phenomenon, and that should make us rethink and rethink the tourist model we want to have in Euskadi are, of course, the fraud of the tourist flats, as we have known, as we have spoken in this very House and as we have treated many times. In addition, the figures for the economy submerged in the tourism sector, which, as we know, is one of the highest in relation to other economic sectors. And it is striking that in almost one out of five inspections carried out in Basque companies in the last four years they have found people who either work without being discharged from Social Security or do more hours than is stipulated in the contract. We talk about fraudulent contracts that are repeated regularly and especially in summer, in the hotel industry: women workers tested, part-time and collecting in B the rest of the day, overtime unpaid, full days unreported, etc. It is time, therefore, to claim a time when traveling people should contribute to a social and cultural encounter with the popular classes of the city. Moreover, it is not an isolated opinion: there are many experts and studies who conclude that making tourism and travel more slow and slow, less massive and more sustainable, is today a possible answer to the problem of the difficult compatibility between the quantitative growth of the tourism industry and the negative social, economic, cultural and environmental impacts that these tourist flows generate. We want to promote a tourism management model that contributes effectively to the maintenance and protection of cultural and natural heritage in Basque tourist destinations, that the goal is always sustainable development and that promotes the socio-cultural authenticity of each destination and community, and that links be established with tourism business associations with non-governmental organizations and with local producers and artisans in different destinations. A tourism, in short, inclusive, inclusive and inclusive that does not exclude anyone, and that is at the same time consistent with all pockets and all economies. The phenomenon of tourism, therefore, and its consequences, have taken the media's attention to events of all kinds – not all of them, of course, not adequate or successful – which have highlighted the need to address this in-depth debate. In other words, a debate based on the analysis and contrast of ideas and not on uplifting statements, simplistic headlines and mere statements. We have a clear example at the celebration a couple of weeks ago of the Final Four basketball in Vitoria. An absolute failure that responds to a tourist model of major events and investments that does not impact on the local economy and whose impact on the Basque capital and its inhabitants has been scarce, beyond the excessive growth in prices in hotels, apartments, tourist flats, bars, restaurants and other leisure spaces, as well as the chaos in the traffic and privatization of public parking. And we do not mention the intention of the Euroliga, the organiser of the event and of the public administrations, to support in the beginning the activities of this event with volunteers and in precarious working conditions. This is an example of the tourism model we are promoting. Because, I repeat, under no circumstances – and it must be pointed out – are tourists the problem. It is true that some are more conscious and respectful than others, but in that, the truth, they do not differ at all from the people living in the Basque municipalities. The consequences of the increase in the number of visitors – some of whom are tourists in their own home – are now a logical concern. The tourist condition, if we are allowed, is the cause and effect of changes in the landscape of cities and villages. Meanwhile, what the government is doing, as every time it is faced with a citizen controversy that it does not like, is trying to reduce everything from the institutions, it tries to reassure the population with messages like "In Basque the tourism sector still has margin", and there is no such perception. And, as I said before, it is clear that there is no situation like in other cities or in other municipalities at international level, but there are some indicators of negative impacts that we have to take measures to avoid reaching those limits and those levels in other cities. In short, if we do not take the appropriate measures, the indiscriminate growth of the number of tourists will have negative consequences for the tourism sector. And we understand from Elkarrekin that we can better prevent, we better get to work, than continue to mourn. A few months ago, in this same House, we called for the Basque Government to reflect on the environmental, economic, social and cultural impact of tourism phenomena in some parts of Euskadi, to promote a forum for plural debate with all actors in the sector and to take into account existing studies and analyses on the negative consequences and demands of civil society. We also understand that in the urban centres and historic city centres of our Community, as well as in some coastal localities of Euskadi, tourism is being imposed, and also tourist flows and excessive growth. And in the face of inaction and lack of inter-institutional coordination, we cannot continue along this path. We cannot continue to favour and facilitate a tourism model based on the first sector, where the market demands of large multinationals and tour operators are prioritized, to the detriment of the quality of life of people living in the different municipalities of our Community. Because we also understand that growth is not incompatible with sustainability, and that is why today we are bringing a motion and a proposal, a compromise amendment, in which we ask four questions fundamentally. One that promotes – not that it continues to work – a sustainable, social, economic and environmentally sustainable tourism model with the environment, that is balanced, that is diversified and respectful of the rights of both the population living in these municipalities and, of course, the tourists and the workers in the sector. In addition, we understand that it has to be a participatory process, a process in which citizens participate, where – obviously – the agents of the sector themselves participate and that it also has the collaboration of all institutions and all administrative levels. Because we also understand that in Euskadi there is a unique offer, different, peculiar, particular, given our identity. And that there is a set of attractions and particularities, within our territory, of our culture, which we have to expose and which we have to value. Thirdly, we understood that we had to develop this tourism model on the basis of the 17 sustainable development goals of the United Nations, in order, above all, to achieve qualitative development and implement policies that take account of these negative impacts in the face of disproportionate and disproportionate growth in tourism activity. Finally, and in view of an issue that we have dealt with many times here, we understood that a report should be drawn up on the situation of tourist flats, carrying out a quantitative and qualitative X-ray of this sector, as well as of the evolution of this sector, especially in recent years, and that it should be referred to Parliament. And we understand that with this proposal we were in line with what we have often talked about here and in what the spokesmen of different forces agreed, in which it is clear that with this new tourism model, if we do not take action, if we do not put or promote policies that really lead us to have sustainable tourism, the negative impacts will increasingly be noticed and then we will lose all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counselor, Mr Counselor. Mrs García, you bring us a motion that you are almost two years old and that, as you yourself have said, is a motion that refers to the tourism model that we want the government to push forward. And in these two years we have made progress, I believe, we have deepened some aspects and we have already come to some conclusions. In any case, you, in the motion says that the Government fulfils the objectives of sustainable development, that it promotes a respectful and sustainable tourism model, social, economic and environmental, and that it is carried out in a participatory manner with citizens and interested entities. Seen thus, individualized, therefore, we all agree, because this is, therefore, "And peace in the world". Well, yes, but, as I say, I think we had made progress, we had already put other aspects on the table in initiatives that we have approved in this House. The problem is the justification of the initiative, and I have seen that it is also the one that has been transferred here, in its presentation. And it brings us some data that I have been able to see and value, so we do not share. It tells us of a disproportionate and excessive growth of tourism activity. I think it is necessary to differentiate, when we talk about tourism, between tourists and hikers. And if we go to the data we have on tourism GDP in the whole of the Basque Country is 6.1, when in the rest of Spain the average is 14.6. If we go to Alava, it is 5.1%; in Bizkaia, 5.4%; in Gipuzkoa, 7.6%. And, indeed, if we go to Donostia city, it is the 15%. Of hikers we have no data. There are some data, but they do not give a reference of a percentage. I think with this data we can see that we move in very normal data, right? And that it is Donostia who presents the urban core with the largest tourist influx, which coincides with an attractive also suitable for the hiker. Donostia's data tells us that in 2017 the growth of tourism activity decreased compared to 2016 data. These data are not always ascending, there are also their peaks. The reality is that the weight of tourism outside Donostia is low in Gipuzkoa territory, as happens in Álava and Bizkaia. Tourist activity is important because it generates employment, generates wealth, generates social cohesion... What is basic is how we manage this activity so that it moves on to what you were saying, what we call the sustainable model. How to continuously monitor and measure the actual tourist assessment, why certain concentrations occur at certain points and at certain times. That's what happens in Donostia. That's what they say... I've read the presentation that there was at the General Boards, all the exhibitions, the conclusions, and this is the general focus of all the sectors that have participated, the regions of the territory... I think it has been a presentation, a deep work..., a presentation – at least for me – very enriching, very didactic and that puts us in reality. And in the end, what we want to look for is how we dynamize the smaller areas. How we plan this management of the tourism, the tourist and the hiker. How we diversify the offer and how we create new resource-based tourism products, which we have. And then, coordination between public and private actors to drive events in a coordinated way, so that there are no such concentrations that occur, as I said, at certain points at certain times. Because there is something that is basic and said it by almost all the experts who participated in that presentation, that first is tourism management, then it's dynamism and then it's promotion. And sometimes institutions go to promotion without basic programming, tourism planning. And that is why measures are needed for the relocation of tourism and its deseasonalization, in order to generate flows, as I said, much more orderly and easy to manage. Donostia has a figure to take into account: the increase in sun and beach tourism has fallen, it has decreased, with growth of 7%, but urban tourism has increased by 20%, and that is very important too, isn't it? This trend deserves control, it deserves attention, it deserves not to make so much supply of urban tourism and to diversify the supply to move flows so that such concentrations do not occur at certain points. In other words, avoid the massing that occurs at some times. Donostia has a uniqueness too, the Old Party, to which you referred. It has an establishment, has a hostel, has a bar, for every 25 inhabitants, which is unique. He's very focused. That, too, someone has authorized it. That's not there because it is. I mean, there has to be coordination between administrations to see how we reorder the activities. This calls for a confluence of tourists and hikers who are going to eat, to dine, and who come together in the same area at certain times. Why? Because there is a lot of concentrated offer; therefore, it has a certain logic. It was very interesting what they said from the Basque Tourism Observatory, which is managed by the Department of Tourism of the University of Deusto. We were told that it is necessary to create an intelligent database to facilitate the management of the tourism sector, that is, tools for good tourism management. We had also talked about this here at some point, when we talked about the Tourism Observatory, and why it was essential and necessary for them to be active and to have a key role in observing data, because data helps us to manage. And management is an important part of the success that tourism flows smoothly and does not disturb or affect, or affects as little as possible, the citizenry of the environment. It also told us the observatory that has little data at local and regional level, so it is difficult for them to do a job in these areas. They also said that they lacked information about hikers, which makes it difficult to control. And it's true, San Sebastián has always been a centre, Donostia, of a lot of hikers, and, as I said, if that confluences with the tourist, then it generates peaks of high concentration – of course it does! – and I understand that that has to be managed. They also called for inter-agency collaboration in the exchange of data. As the representative of this observatory said, this is essential for efficient destination management, all this to ensure a good tourist experience and that, ultimately, we are a competitive destination. From the Group of the European People's Party we have wanted to translate into our amendment the need for inter-institutional coordination of the actors involved and of civil society, because I believe that civil society, which lives and lives in certain areas where peaks can be produced, must participate in tourism policies, know what is being done and why some things should not happen; that it should participate, that it should feel and that it should be aware of what is happening there. All this, as we said to them and as we said in the amendment, to move towards a sustainable and orderly tourism model. We have also tabled an amendment to integrate all tourist attractions and cultural events, following inter-institutional collaboration. It is how we promote our products, and that we have to promote not only those star products, but it has to be a promotion in which all administrations go together when promoting, because that will help us to control flows and to control that those high concentrations do not occur at certain points and at certain times. Our initiative is to collaborate and deepen what you called a sustainable tourism model – as you said and yes, we share. And how? Well, we believe that with an inter-institutional, social and stakeholder collaboration that leads us to make an orderly planning or programming of tourism, and, as it also said – and very important, especially in Donostia – of hiking, because it does generate peaks of high influx at certain times that help to generate those points of high concentration that we want to avoid, we all want to avoid them. We have therefore reached an amendment with the groups supporting the Government. I think it is an amendment in which we have also provided something that you were telling us, to draw up a dossier on the situation of tourist flats, to carry out a quantitative and qualitative X-ray of this sector, and to evaluate it, and to refer it to Parliament. It seems to me that some of this information is already available to the Government, but we think it is important to have this information. As I was saying, our initiative is not that we have two models. The model is the same. What I believe is that we have to activate all control and order mechanisms so that the tourist experience is positive and we can be competitive in the tourism sector, which is the objective we must achieve. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u62	Good afternoon. Now, as we shall talk of tourism today, I shall propose a little journey, a little of the subject, a little from a different point of view, although, after all, we will say similar things, but at least we will try to alter something in form. Look, I'll show you some pictures. [[He showed a picture.]] If I show you this, I show you a beautiful mountain, a mountain of Everest, and a beautiful photograph that will appear in the mountain mills, but if we open it we shall see how Everest was last week; perhaps you don't see it at a distance, but here it's a long line of people, hundreds of people, climbing to the top of Everest. In between, some people died, eleven dead, and as long as the crowd piled up the photos, nickels, and Instagrams, to take pictures of Everest on the summit of which there were bodies of the dead beside them. Fortunately, the situation is not so dramatic, but the picture reminded me of this other image of San Juan de Castledegache: the like lines, and, as I have said, happily, not with such dramatic effects, in this elevation of San Juan de Castleegache. Begira, topatu dut duela ez asko nola hitz egiten zen San Juan de Gaztelugatxeri buruz blog turismoko batean –benetan harrigaria –: "San Juan de Gaztelugatxe, a wonder little known". Douela lau urte hori zen izenburua bidaia-blog batan: "San Juan de Gaztelugatxe, a wonder little known". The headlines today are: "The magnetism of Rocadragon overflows San Juan de Gaztelugatxe; only last July 75,000 tourists visited the enclave". From a wonder little known to a crowded area, that's what happened to us in Gaztelugatxe by an uncontrolled explosion of tourist flows. We left Everest, even past Castlega, and now we're in Bilbor. [[He showed us a paper.]] "The lack of relief devours the traditional cuisine of the Old Helmet." Although in the headline it is said that the lack of relief, then the small letter is read and says not that the franchises are carried forward..., speculation, the rise in rental prices, which traditional hospitality cannot cope with, are leaving a void that goes on occupying the franchises. This is happening to us with traditional trade and it is also happening with hospitality. And this is starting to get serious, because we have bars, and this at Euskal Herria is a very serious thing. Traditional hospitality, which, jokes aside, is a cultural space, a social space, is disappearing in the Old Town of Bilbo due to a phenomenon of uncontrolled outburst of tourism. And I was curious, because they interviewed a neighborhood resident, an anonymous writer, who is not a spokesperson for EH Bildu or Elkarrekin Podemos, and ended the article by saying: "This is on the way to becoming a theme park for tourists. I wish I was wrong, but our appeal lies in the difference, and if we lose the essence, this will end up looking like the Old Party of San Sebastián." Forgive me the Donostiaras, but a few years ago, when an example of a city crushed by tourism was set, Venice was spoken of and it seemed that it was the only one, then Amsterdam and now a normal and common binbotarra puts as an example of space where the essence and identity of the Old Part of Donosti itself has been lost. And let's see the data: in Donosti, some have pointed out earlier, in the Old Party live 6,000 people, 1,600 beds for tourist accommodation. One hotel establishment every two portals, 210 in total, three times more shops and six times more hostel establishments in the neighborhood than in the rest of the city. And then what happens happens, because some try to circumscribe the problem to the Old Party, and it is true that the Old part is where the population jams can be, but the effect and impact reach the whole city: the rental housing in Donosti is increased by 20% in 2018 and in the last four years it has increased by 33%. And not only in relation to tourism, but also to tourism, because from the institutions this indiscriminate proliferation of tourist offer has not been stopped. It has not been stopped and could have been done with tourist flats and also with hotels, through specific moratoriums and regulations aimed at reducing that impact. And that can be done. He said we were going on a trip. Next stopover, Amsterdam. In Amsterdam it is forbidden to open shops for tourists. If we put it here by Euskal Herria Bildu, what we would have to hear! It is prohibited in Amsterdam in the central area to open more shops for tourists; it is prohibited, among other things, to open ice cream shops. And do they have anything against the ice creams of Amsterdam, the Dutch? No, what happens is that, as he said, not only does man live on ice cream, and he who lives in the centre of Amsterdam, apart from ice cream, also needs to buy a button when he falls off his shirt, he also needs to buy food, and if all the shops are for tourists and for ice creams, then obviously you cannot live, you lose enormous quality of life. But look also what they have done in Amsterdam: it is no longer just quality of life, but it is also cultural identity: forbid shops to label in English. I repeat, if this is proposed by Euskal Herria Bildu, we are brought to light by Zumalacárregui, how pale we are, the people, Unamuno and that complex of superiority that Spanish nationalism has, thinking that the others are of people and they are the cosmopolitans. In Amsterdam, which, by the way, is a Dutch city, which is the country of non-English-speaking Europe where more English is spoken, because these are not closed to the world, because they want to have the opportunity of English for their children, for study, for cultural enrichment, but what they do not want is to lose their own identity and they have banned ice cream shops in the center and they have banned labeling in English. That said, what we should have heard if we had proposed it. Next stop, back to Bilbo. Yesterday, 6,000 cruisers mobilized 125 buses. I believe that the chronicles of the Normandy landing had less epic literature than this, because a tide of about 6,000 cruisers flooded yesterday part of Bilbao and other points of Bizkaia, a huge number of tourists eager to know the tourist attractions. 125 buses for transfers on excursions. Guess where they went? To the Old Part of Donosti to eat pinchos, to San Juan de Gaztelugatxe and to the Guggenheim. This is the tourist offer that is being promoted in this country. By the way, I find myself – among so many paperwork it is difficult to follow the order – with "Bars and restaurants receive with suspicion the new law of schedules". Most businesses are not viable by paying overtime. The traditional hospitality, which is being closed and moved in the Old Town and also in Donosti, gives way to these franchises, which then have to resort to exploitation and labor piracy to be profitable: what they pay in rents is what they do not pay to the workers. And your government, which chooses Basque tourism as the central element of the offer, is not doing things right. It is not responsible for the tourism that is taking place worldwide and is affecting a lot of cities; of course it is not responsible, but it is not managing the impact well, because this impact has multiplied in recent years, and appropriate corrective measures have not been implemented throughout this legislature. And when your Government, for example, within the Strategic Tourism Plan, tells us that gastronomy is the axis of our tourist offer is wrong, because gastronomy exists here, but it is not the Basque differential fact; gastronomy, good gastronomy exists here, exists in France, exists in Greece, exists in Japan, exists in many places. Do you know what is unique, typical of this country, at a time when we are looking for differentiated tourism precisely to avoid making those mistakes? Do you know what's here and not anywhere else in the world? For, Euskal Herria, precisely, its culture, its language, its history, its traditions, and that is what must be the pillar of the tourist offer. Because, what's going on? That if we offer something, people come to look for it and we have to give it to them; if we offer mass tourism to eat pinchos, in the end we give pinchos of mass and the own pinchos of Donosti are losing their essence, the traditional taverns are being replaced by others. On the other hand, if we offer cultural authenticity, the one who comes will come looking for authenticity, and therefore, even if it is only because of the approach to tourism, we will be obliged to preserve that authenticity. You will know the source of ESS-Bilbao Spread Neutrons, because here we have discussed it many times. Spreading is taking out pieces of something impacting, hitting something else, and the source actually gets neutrons spreading atoms. Spreading is also hitting one stone against another to take out silex chips and make arrow tips or other lytic instruments, so it can be said that we have been spreading in this territory for 25,000, 30,000, 40,000 or 50,000 years. Of course, it wasn't our ancestors who spread in prehistory – at least not mine, because they wouldn't be around here and I don't think there's a biological continuity – but in this country there's been doing things for many years and there's a cultural continuity, and there's a series of traditions and there's a series of idiomatic and other wealth, which is what we have to protect, because in that time of 25,000 years spreading something called Euskal Herria has come up and we want tourism, in addition to making an economic contribution, also to preserve our identity. It will not give me time to finish the exhibition, but simply two questions: tourism has an important economic value, tourism has an important cultural value, of exchange, not only for the issuer, not only for the one who travels, but also for the one who receives the tourist. We will never question the validity of tourism, and it also has value from the perspective of leisure and rest. Tourism is essential and tourism is necessary in a modern society, and also to receive tourists, but it is necessary to know how to balance these tourist flows so that they produce more benefits than setbacks, because sometimes you can also fall into the temptation to make money easy in the short term and think that tourism can replace other economic activities. Look, two studies have been carried out on the evolution of the economy in the different autonomy of the state, and the two are very coincident: [[He showed me some papers.]] This is the evolution on the basis of 100 of each of the state's communities; here are the Canary Islands and Balearic Islands, Ceuta and Melilla also something: in the last 20 years the Canary Islands and Balearic Islands, that is, the autonomy that has focused exclusively on the tourism model, are the ones that have lost more income than the average. This is the report of the INE, and this is the report of the savings banks. And that result is the same: it is from the year 2000 and from the explosion of the tourist boom, there is this decrease of Balearics and the Canary Islands with respect to rent. Therefore, even from an economicist perspective, tourism, you have to handle it very carefully, because in the short term it can be very juicy, but in the long term it can have problems. We finished the trip in Gaztelugatxe. [[He showed a picture.]] This is a lizard, the lizard of the Pitiuses, which has become the owner of Gaztelugatxe and has made the native lizard disappear. And she, logically, has no fault. In fact, the Balearic Islands is in danger of extinction. But some disillusioned person came up with the idea of introducing her to Gaztelugatxe. I don't want our people to end up like the Gaztelugatxe lizard, displaced and extinct. And I don't want tourism to contribute to that. We're on time...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u63	Finishing up, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u64	... to change the policies, to prevent that mass that is now given in point focus from spreading, and we are also in time to reverse it in those places where it is being given. If you work well, you can reverse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u65	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u66	Thank you, President. Counselor, starting at the end, in Donostia we are very concerned about protecting the southern frog for a long time now, and thanks to the urban planning programs we also have it in the Igeldo area; specifically, with wonderful puddles. If you want those of San Juan de Gaztelugatxe, we tell you how to protect certain species. That, in a place where tourism seems to be massive and ultimately going against the environment itself. Well, there goes the first example of how to do things right; at least, the donostiaras. Look, Elkarrekin Podemos' initiative stems from an inquiry that this group presented in 2017, in October 2017. And, Mrs García, from October 2017 to today it has rained, it has rained a lot and the Basque Government to which you say that it lacks management and that it does not carry out programs or actions, and that those that it performs seem to go against that sustainable tourist model for which you advocate, from that moment until today the Basque Government has a Strategic Plan of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, has a Master Plan of Tourism, the municipalities – in Eudel the issue has been addressed – today have municipal ordinances to regulate what are the houses of tourist use, we have the Tourism Law in full march moreover, with full compliance by the Basque Government... That is to say, there is an arrangement in this of tourism. You have made – and you specifically, Mrs García, in addition to the initiative – a quite catastrophic exhibition, and I was eager to respond with the speech made by the adviser, then Retortillo, that October 2017 to your inquiry, because, frankly, you have read us that motion from end to end, you have not even updated it in the data, and the truth is that it seems to me, in the end, rather regrettable, if we really want to carry out a very concrete diagnosis of what the situation of tourism is today, what has been worked out, how the institutions are working and then be able to put among all or reach a broad agreement to put measures. And, look, I am going to look at a fact exclusively: in Gipuzkoa, in the province of Gipuzkoa, the one that has the capital in which, in the end, tourism is absolutely massive – you spoke in your motion and even in the amendment that has been made of disproportionate tourism, of excessive tourism – well, at the Gipuzkoa General Councils at the initiative of the Socialist Group a paper was created to discuss all the policies that were being carried out in the field of tourism. And do you know which group exclusively voted against the whole of the conclusions? Because there were groups such as Euskal Herria Bildu who at the time raised a particular vote on some issues that they considered to be poorly reflected or not fully reflected; the Basque People's Group also raised a particular vote on the subject of the tourist rate, explaining it. It was Elkarrekin We can only be the only group of all the Gipuzkoa General Councils that decided to veto that presentation and the conclusions of that presentation on tourism. And it seems to me that your speech is full of magnificent headlines in some cases, but that then, as far as the content of the speech is concerned, you are going to tear down absolutely those magnificent headlines of "We want sustainable tourism, we are not for tourismophobia, we are not to be blamed for the fact that we do not really ensure that tourism has controls, has inspections...", and then, Mrs. García, you are going to go to an absolutely alarmist speech, you set me as an example and give me data that are also not real, Mr.Tortillo told you, and still today there are more studies that support that Donostia is not massified, that does not have massed tourism. And you put it as you put it, the data, so far, the rigorous data from the observatories do not come to say what you are pointing out, that there is a disproportionate and excessive tourism. But, obviously, we can't stay on the issue of "Well, there's nothing going on here and, therefore, there's nothing to work on." There's a lot to work for. And that is why, since 2017, a task has been carried out by the Basque Government, which seeks to make tourism promotion compatible, but not only promotion, nor to fall exclusively into tourism promotion. What needs to be done, as the amendment we have had with the Basque People's Group rightly says, is to plan, to redirect policies from an inter-institutional order to an increasingly sustainable tourism model. Because it seems to us that this is the way forward, because we cannot stop being alert in case there are threats, because tourism has threats, it has challenges, but it does not have a massive reality today in Euskadi. Put the pictures on us, today there is no data, there are no indices that tell us that tourism is massive. Not in Donostia, not in Bizkaia, not in Alava, not in Euskadi in general. We have tourists and opportunities for growth in tourism and important economic growth, but no one is advocating for this excessive and uncontrolled tourism growth. No one. And if problems arise, which are problems that come from before... The rent in Donostia is not expensive since 2017, nor is it expensive since before yesterday, nor is it expensive for a few years; the rents in Donostia are expensive for many years. Because the speculative policy on the issue of housing obeyed and led to the actual channelling of the issue of rent as an exceptional issue because everyone wanted to have a property. But those are urban issues. Tourism is not responsible for this growth in rents. And measures will have to be taken, of course, with regard to tourist accommodation. That is why we also point this out in the amendment. That is why, some time ago, a report was also presented on how the issue of tourist accommodation was affected. That is, there may be inconveniences, there may be issues that may be problematic for some neighbourhoods, for certain areas, but which need to be addressed. Because, listen, do you imagine that those of the neighborhood of Amara, that we have the stadium of Anoeta, we are fervently against the Royal Society, the rugby parties between the Biarritz Olympique and the Baiona, and we decide that there are no more rugby matches because, listen, it's that they bother us, it's that the French come and bother us to make the international rugby matches and world cup level? And you know what I tell you? That even if the Royal had a high quota and had to be in European leagues, damn it! Would those of Amara, you know, really piss us off if so many people really came to see that very high-level football game? Well, I tell you, not me, I don't mind. And I live in the neighborhood of Amara. And the truth is that it seems to me that we have to take things with a certain relativity, because, if not, we can fall into what can sometimes be alarmist speeches and perhaps also, allow me, out of place, with all my respect, but out of place. Because we put ourselves in an absolutely radical situation and neither put nor propose measures that can tackle these certain specific events, which can cause some discomfort to the locals themselves – how not! – but, listen, they are nuisances that for a common good and for a general good it is worth having those sporting, cultural events... How is the historical heritage of the Old Part of Donostia being destroyed? Historic patrimony? Which one? Which one? I would like to know him, by simple knowledge, because I am not aware of the issue of the destruction of the historical heritage of the Old Party. What have we done in the Old Party? That we'll be loaded! What I do think we should conclude today is, first, that the Basque Government is working, is working and will continue to work on this model of sustainable tourism. That we do not want a tourism that loads our material or intangible heritage. That we have mechanisms to control it. That we also have the political will to do so. That there is no data that today can lead us to think that Donostia, or some other places in other historical territories, are on the same level and in the same index neither of massed tourism, not even of a lot of tourism as Venice, Amsterdam – which has been mentioned here –, Canary Islands or Balearic Islands. Nothing like that, because we don't have a sun and beach tour, we've never had it, and I don't think we're going to have it for a lot of climate change. I therefore believe that we must stick to a serious and rigorous diagnosis of what is the situation of tourism in Euskadi and continue to work on these patterns of sustainable tourism, of a planning rather than a tourist promotion, but one thing is not incompatible with the other. We are working to ensure that social partners and tourism actors work together to adapt tourism to sustainable development goals. And we also agree that tourist homes can have a dosier that will tell us how this issue has evolved since there was virtually no regulation until today, which has already been in place for a few years now, municipal ordinances have been put in place and, therefore, we are facing a situation in which tourist homes have been illegalized, in which other types of tourist flats have been regulated. And, therefore, knowing the situation will always be good to improve at least the diagnosis and experience that has been giving us the data until today's reality. I would ask you a little bit of measure in what are the diagnoses, because only from that measure and from that prudence will we be able to take the measures among all the more appropriate and correct. If not, we'll miss the shot, but, come on, from end to end. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETX Well, I quite agree with everything Mrs. Susana Corcuera said. Maybe I'll repeat a few things, but I'll try to have a few extras, too, because I think he's paying little attention and he's giving it to her, not just now, but on the job she's been doing for a long time. Surprised... I don't know if I was surprised by Mrs. García's catastrophist speech. And I'm not at all surprised that Mr. Casanova has made a great speech for me. A journey so long, so long, I don't know, has come back to the Basque Country, and I don't know if it sees things as it ought to be. Even so, I had a feeling that today we'd discuss this motion and vote. For, as has been said, clarro is a text that appeared 18 months ago. You've repeated it all over, Mrs. García, and I don't know whether you're saying that things haven't changed or that for the past 18 months, that there haven't been measures and tactics that didn't fit, renewed, rethinking... Because that's not true. And they have been said, but I shall repeat again, for instance, two or three instances. For instance, the first thing in the world of tourists' flats, you know, you know, you're in the tourist apartment, you know, some of the town halls have taken a few measurements. There they are, and you, you know, and we all know. Or else, I would strongly remark that this was the case with the whole planual Turism set up a year ago in this legislature. I think these two examples ought to be considered, and above all this. Let me tell you, not just the happy days, but the three main goals I've had. "that he has dealt with them in the field of tourism, and that he has dealt with them in three ends. summarizing in three words or three expressions all: the second, quality, and professionality; and the third, the rule. As to patience, it's a bet for a long time. That doesn't mean it's going to happen, but we all know that things don't change from day to day and that they have to work day by day with a future prospect. In the case of quality and professionality, I'll mention it over and over again, and then again in his presupuist, when he's been pushing some good encycludes along with the sector, for example, silver Qs are all about it and the witness. And as for the rule, as you know, we have a law of 2016, which is in force, and there are some ends and some measures that are established. So, tourist is an opportunity. We're not going to become a tourist town, Mr. Casanova, or Bilbo, or... That's 13% of his raw product in Donostian, but you know it's 6% in the Edo Autonomium. No, the industry is our bet, but it doesn't mean that if the tourisms offer us a few possibilities, they don't take advantage of it either. Besides, it's an unstoppable process, so let's take advantage of it, because I think you've confessed it, and we all acknowledge it, I mean wealth, employment, etc., etc., etc., etc. But we're not going to convert whales or Andalusia into our most important sector, the biggest sector of our economy. No, but we want to take advantage of it, too. It's very interesting to look at me a year ago, as I said before, the strategic plan that introduced itself here, because there's a deep thought in it. A profound consideration of the sector, and not only with the sector, but also with other institutions. So with cooperation, with the sector and other institutions, it's always been there and it's been that way. But from this reflection there is a vision, a vision. What does that say? Now, what we want, we want it to be an excellent and specialized visit-place, which will give a permanent quality and elevation to the Basque Society, to its culture and environment. That we want to have rheumatism in Europe, and that we want to have a tolerable growth in this area. In this sense there are three engagements: the second bet on the theory of experience, and Euskauda Basque Country. To do what? It's very clear to get a strong and bearable tourist growth with more and better jobs. Here are the views, the targets, and also the deeply reflected ones. The result of all this follows the seven principal points of the strategic plan: the first was a magnificent offer of tourism and an experience, the strengthening of Euskade experience, that is to say, a brilliant experience throughout the tour of the tourists, to trust the clients, to keep the lawsuits on our business ends. The local community has been mentioned here in Françoise; so that it is here that the Esuccanic, Turism, may produce an economic and social development; permanentness, the main line of the Eukadi's tourism. The tourism we have to push must be permanent and conscientious, compatible with the quality and personality of the Basques, of course, which is one of our most important assets, we agree. To aid us in competition, in our industry and in our small and midning companies. And the final furrow, the tourism spread all over the country and all the year. All this, I repeat, is reflected, not only upon other institutions and the sector, but is already operational, and if we examine them, it is purely operational; to help the sector, to invent the offer, to renew, to competitiveity, to quality... That's the main lines of the old days that's been happening to you and you're talking about it. And that, after all, is what we express in our repentance. And I know that often the opposition is in his work, as it is natural, that he is asking for Christmas stuff and that he who is in the government says, "Yes, I'm doing that," so I agree with what you ask, but what we ask from you is that he can continue to do it in this case. And I think that the last thing can be proved is making fun of it, so it's allowed and it's fair to ask you to go on asking you to go on about it, because she's thinking about it, and deep down, too. Well, bear bidaia lutea egin duzu, Casanova jauna, bathe lehen nioen bezala –ez ezazu gaizki hartu –, bear demagogikoa. Gaztelugatxe? Bai, jakina, and put the scream in the sky. Yeah. Well, that is regulated, as is the flow of people to a particular museum, to a certain park, to a certain aquarium or to other kinds of issues or realities that are attractive to the tourist. It's regulated, but, of course, it's gone to Everest and I don't know if the height has left it cloudy. Bilbao. Yeah, we know. I mean that these are processes in which they are being renewed, but in that case, and in the case of Bilbao – and the news you have taught here – it is a problem of generational relief. How do you prevent the nephew or grandson or grandson of a certain restaurant, whose owner was his grandfather, his great-grandfather, from deciding at any given moment to sell it to him..., I know, McDonald's? How do you prevent it? I don't know how you're gonna stop it. The Old Part of Donosti. Well, we've talked enough about that. And you know who's more worried? The Town Hall of Donosti, which is governed by the Basque Nationalist Party. And not only concerned, but throughout the last legislature it has taken a whole series of measures and is going to continue to take them, and also in line with the inhabitants there. And I'm done. Also, so obsessed with Donosti, that for me too, if the Real gets to the Champions and wins it, delighted with life. I too have lived in Amara and my grandmother lives in Amara, and I see the countryside from home, but it is true what Mrs Corcuera said: the problem or the question of renting in Donosti is not caused by tourism. That's another problem. Well, so, I don't know, a little bit of measure. We know that tourism has its negative aspects, the Basque Government and the Basque institutions are working on it, also the sector, and from there we must be aware, of course, of the issues that may arise, which arise as in any other reality of life.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u68	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. It's the answer time. Mrs. Garcia. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u69	Thank you. Well, let's get started. Mrs López de Ocariz, I am convinced that you really have no problem with the compromise amendment that Mr Casanova and I agreed to. I am convinced that the arguments you have not to fuck with us have absolutely nothing to do with the negative impacts of tourism; then, we will not comment on them either, but I am very, very sorry, really sorry that 20 days ago you would surely have signed it and not today. And that's your question, not mine. Mrs. Corcuera, I understand that when one has nothing to say or doesn't know how to argue, the only thing he does is to throw the opponent, instead of ideas and arguments and reasons and data, well, somehow, that if the other's speech is catastrophic, alarmist, lamentable, demolishing... Well, I think you've been the most alarmist of all in your own speech by uttering a whole list of adjectives that I understand are to hide the lack of arguments. Because you have talked about plans in these two years, and it is true, the plans are very well, the plans are very well, but it is that during these two years there has been a rise in rents, there has been a disappearance of the traditional shops, there has been an appearance of excessive franchises, in addition to a massive occupation of public space in some points and municipalities of Euskadi. And what has the Basque Government done before this? Make plans. And I really invite you to enter one of the tourist flat platforms and look at the prices. And I also invite you to read reports that Donosti's neighbors have to leave the Old Helmet because they can't cope with the rents, and then, if you want, you come here and give me arguments. And I also invite you to take a look at the wages paid by the franchise workers, the hotel workers, the "Kellys", the waitresses, and what is formulating a model of employability that I understand is not worthy; if for you it is worthy, explain it to me or tell me, but I understand that it is not. You are doing nothing to prevent what is coming, nothing; you go by the hand of the lobbies I am talking all the time about a sustainable model, and one thing is the intention, that we want a sustainable model, but that then in practice we do not or do not take concrete steps to make that sustainable model really work. Because, of course, then there is also the ecological impact. Do you know how many vehicles and CO emissions 2 generates the impact of the tourist model and, therefore, the model of city that you are defending? Because we are very clear what model we are defending, and it is the model we have brought today in our very concrete motion. In addition, you make plans, you talk, you are doing, you work, you continue on it... but it is that in January 2019, in this very Parliament, you pledged to bring a report of the relationship between the increase in tourist flats and the rise in the price of rents. And where's that report? Where's that report? Because anyway, I'm becoming a catastrophe. Where is he? Where is he? Because I'm talking to you about reports, data, and you're talking to me about opinions and opinions. What makes me understand is that you want cities to be at the service of tour operators, that's what makes me understand, and that, in the end, what you want is to turn Euskadi and its capitals into investment destinations at whatever price. And at the price of what? At the price of precarious jobs, at the price of making the neighbors of the historic helmets be evicted from their own neighborhoods and at the price of destroying the cultural and anthropological heritage. And what property has been destroyed? Well, I'm sorry you weren't a part of the law we passed a few weeks ago, because it was also a very interesting paper, in which I don't know if you know, but on Elkarrekin's proposal we can somehow safeguard the industrial heritage. And I don't know if you consider that there are certain shops, certain ways of life, which are cultural heritage. That's also cultural heritage, and against that... That's also cultural heritage, Mrs. Corcuera. You come out here, you say what you want..., I, I understand that too... Having said that, we, in the motion... because I have both amendments in my hand, and it costs me..., I think that even one is wrong to vote, and if they do, great, because they are two very, very similar proposals. The difference is that you, instead of doing an exercise in amendment and not self-congratulation, as always, want to tell me that you're already working when I'm asking you for reports, I'm asking you about that. We're talking about concrete things that are happening. Well, it is clear that the concrete measures are not being taken. If we really want a sustainable model and we agree on that..., and I also have no doubt that we all agree on the tourism model we want, but let us not let there be any other interests that we can then have. If so, and seeing the two proposals in truth, I believe that some Member will be wrong to vote, because they are virtually the same. And this, Mrs López de Ocariz, leads me to tell you that, if you reject one but say yes to the other, I will think that you do not want to fuck me and the other group, in this case EH Bildu, but he does want to do it with the government. And that tells me we're facing a new era. And, well, welcome be, but I am very sorry that in this case we have not been able to reach an agreement. In time you are voting for points and in time you are going to be wrong and voting for the same thing as you are going to be voting for, which is the proposal we are bringing today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u71	Mrs García, I also wonder why we have not reached an agreement unanimously when two texts, one for you and one for Mrs Corcuera, coincide in such a way but one cannot be reached. If you tell me they're similar and we're going to be wrong... Don't you? Let's see. I believe – I said earlier – that we all bet on the same thing. You say they bet on a sustainable model, and so do the others. And I've told you the three parameters you have to govern: that you have to have an organization and a planning, and when certain concentrations come in points repeatedly it's because there's no management and there's no planning. And for that the institutions have to be, the agents and also the society of the environment have to be. That must therefore be improved, because there are points which are critical and which create certain problems. They complained about the franchises. Look, me, I just have a friend who's got a local hotel and he's retired. It's been four years with the place closed. He's only getting franchise offers. He rejects them because he wants to offer it to someone here. Yeah, but four years without paying a rent. Okay? Per se Indeed, today there are certain jobs and certain activities that are not done by the Basques. No, we don't like them, we want other things more comfortable. The hospitality is complicated, it takes a lot of time and we want much more comfortable jobs. And then, that, either they do franchises or they do immigrant people, foreign people. And that's where we are, but because we choose. It's a choice we're making. We reject certain activities, someone is going to do them and that's where we are. As I was telling you, I think we have to commit ourselves to managing and ordering the tourist activity because, if not, we can get – as one expert said – to Spain becoming a big bar of pinchos and drinks at affordable prices. And that generates little economic activity. It generates economic activity, but it is a complement to other activities. So, as I was telling you, ordination, dynamism and promotion, and in that we have to be peak and shovel. And indeed, there are forums for meetings and debates of actors, of institutions, almost permanently open to know what is going on and to take stock. But I believe that the tourism we have and the offer we have has nothing to do with what is given at certain points. It has nothing to do with it, we are in another reality; to equate this and that is not real. Therefore, let us make proper management so that we do not have points that are not sustainable or peaks of activity that generate bad experiences and that do not make our tourist activity a competitive activity, which is what it should be. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. EHGGGGG the representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u73	It's not just a transmission problem, that of the locals. I read the article again, other parts of the article, which is not – I repeat – EH Bildu or a particularly critical newspaper: "The Arriaga cider factory will stop the activity permanently...". "In their case, the 10 employees who work in this business will suffer the consequences of the real estate fever that lives in the old town, invaded almost every hour of the day by hordes of tourists." That's what they write in the paper. Like in San Sebastián, in the gut. "It's not all going away, letting the franchises in at the top and losing ours. They're going to fill the Old Helmet with impersonal premises where you're just one more." This is vox populi. All you have to do is take a walk around the Old Helmet. As in Donostia they are more accustomed, but the Old Helmet of Bilbo is changing in the eyes from one week to another and is passing in front of our noses. And that's a loss of cultural heritage. And before that you can do things. Look, Gaztelugatxe. Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria said, "Well, it's settled." Who rules? Who put signs on the roads indicating where Gaztelugatxe is? In case someone still doesn't intend to go, to see the sign on the road, and say, "Oh! Well, I'm going to go, my light's on." Still trying to focus more and direct more towards a site that is already massed. Who puts those signals? Who coordinated Gaztelugatxe's plan? What has the Basque Government painted in this? What about the municipalities of Bermeo and Bakio? Nothing. Here everyone makes his cape a saying. And the results are what they are. And I... look, we haven't reached an agreement, Mrs López de Ocariz, we haven't reached an agreement because for me the two proposals were different. There's a phrase... Although I have spoken of the landing in Normandy, I am not going to quote Churchill because then Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria faces him, but I am going to quote Einstein, who said, "The madness is to keep doing the same and pretend to have different results." If we do not accept that there is a problem and that problem, that is not the problem that we are becoming Magaluf, that it is not, neither in Estepona, as Mr Retortillo said in another appearance, nor that we are looking for sun and beach tourism, nor that you are going to throw out the whole industry and we are going to become an economy that lives exclusively from tourism. That is not said by anyone, but the incipient and undeniable problem is that some negative externalities of tourism are damaging the quality of life of an increasing number of citizens of this country. And that's a phenomenon that is still focused today, but we have to recognize it because recognizing it is the first step to correct it. And I do not even sit in the catastrophism of saying that tourism is the apocalypse and that no one comes, because tourism likes us all and we like to do tourism, enriches people and economies, and we want a controlled tourism from which we can extract positive things. But I do not accept either the catastrophe or the negationism of the existence of a number of problems which also require a change of course. Because, look, I'm going to give you a data, and I'm looking at you, but I could look at any of the interlocutors: in Donostia, last year the number of tourists grew by 10% annually. Is that sustainable? Is 10% annual growth sustainable? It's just that that's unsustainable. Something will have to be done to redirect those flows. It will be necessary to arrive at a time when it is said that we have come here in certain aspects, because, Mrs Corcuera, the problem is not that the Real plays every week in Europe – I hope – and that it bothers a little, the problem is to have the Royal Society training on the ground floor and on the top floor every day. That is indeed a problem, because that does deteriorate the quality of life and that is what citizens of the Old Party of Donostia have every day: noises, annoyances, trasiegos, agglomerations, etc. And that's a problem. Let's not mix things up. And, by the way, when you play Baiona's Aviron, don't French come to Donostia? Aren't Basque citizens coming from Baiona or what, that many of them speak French? Since we mention Iparralde, and now don't tell me "No, it's that I want the model of Iparralde, that in Iparralde nothing happens". As an example, as an illustrative example, Iparralde is an example of how a country is sold, and sometimes I think they even pass and enter an Iparralde store has a kitsch point. And then some of them will be more French than De Gaulle, but they sell Pays Basque because it's their tourist brand, because they know precisely that what they sell is that and what there is nowhere else is that. Just like, if you're going to Scotland, there's people scrambling around to see someone playing the gaita on the street, even if there's 20 playing, because that's what you're offering. And from Euskal Herria we have to make an offer... Obviously, we are bigger than the territory of Iparralde, we have more things and more diversity. There's no reason to fall into that type of thing that can get a little excessive, but we do have to sell country. Because those 6,000 that have come down from the cruises, if they make a diary of their journey, probably put "Today we've been in northern Spain, I've eaten three pinchos, I've been in the Guggenheim, very nice on the outside, very cool, on the inside I don't understand anything, a poop, and I've been where 'Tronos Game', I don't remember what it's called." That's not quality tourism. Quality tourism is not that people come to leave themselves pasta. There can be quality tourism of pasta people and there can be quality tourism of backpackers. Quality tourism is the one that is demanding something different and the one that appreciates that different, that does not try to alter it and accommodate the destination to its needs, but will know. And then there will be places where pools and things are made exclusively for leisure and so on. But it is not the offer of our tourist and cultural model. And so, I think that's where we have to focus. Therefore, neither catastrophism nor negationism. If we do not at least implicitly recognize that there is a timely but growing problem, and that this requires policy change, we will not reach agreements. If that is acknowledged – I say, I do not call for self-flagellation, self-criticism, but a recognition, even if implicit, that we are going to tackle this issue and offer to work together – then we will be there, because we are not interested in making this a field of debate but, in any case, a field of agreement to precisely obtain the economic, cultural, social, all-round advantages of tourism, without tourism bittering the lives of more and more people, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u74	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u75	Thank you, President. Mr Casanova, indeed, no one denies, nor I have denied, and if I have, then I regret it, because it is not my intention. I do not deny that we have to sell country, I do not deny that we have to sell Euskadi, I do not deny that we have an identity and that we are a unique destination. Neither do I deny it, nor does the strategic plan deny it, nor does the Tourism Act deny it, nor does the Tourism Master Plan deny it, the foundations on which the Basque Government is working. Therefore, as is usually said, "There is no cause" and there is no case. I did want to say to Mrs García, because she is the one who brought the 2017 initiative here, which, look, Mrs García, makes you trembling with a speech, because she has read us all of her motion, which she made and carried out in 2017, and then ends up concluding, after that diagnosis that I understand was unreal, and also commented on it – as I say – by Mr Retortillo, then Retortillo, and you end up saying that in order to solve all the evils of that unsustainable tourism of a very bad management of the Basque Government, as you say, it is proposed in the motion: "To develop a respectful and sustainable tourism model social, economic and environmentally, to work towards the achievement of the principles emanating from the 17 objectives of sustainable development of the United Nations, to the reality of the Basque tourist agents and to carry out this process in a participatory way with citizenship and interested entities". Hey, this is the magic formula to solve all the problems you've come to tell us here. And I say to you that, in the face of this motion, let us say that the Basque Government was already working on this sustainable tourism with all the planning through the strategic plan, the master plan and the Tourism Act, I come to tell you that we have proposed a five-point compromise amendment that reflects the planning that you had very subtly removed from the People's Party. Because I agree with one of the resolutions of the Gipuzkoa General Councils in that talk about planning. And you, subtly, like who doesn't want the thing, "Bah! I hide it from him, I take it away from him, and I say it's like my amendment fucked with Bildu to which the People's Party, the Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists group have done." Mrs. Garcia, "like an egg to a chestnut." At nothing, they don't look at anything. And Mr. Casanova said, "In nothing," except for the last point. The last point, that's all. And ours has five points. How can you say they look alike? In what? If we don't start with an equal diagnosis, how are we going to end up with something similar? It is impossible, however much we want to reach a broad agreement. What else would I like to reach a unanimous agreement with all the groups on how to move forward and how to guide tourism in Euskadi as a sustainable tourism! What else would I like, for the fact that it brings us as a party that we support the government! But it's impossible, you're setting traps all the time, and you're pretending that we're setting traps for the lonely. Well, we will not reach an agreement in those terms, because you – I repeat – make magnificent headlines ("Let's try sustainable tourism") and then give it a hit. Besides, I'll tell you one more thing, Mrs. García: you don't answer me. You have said in your speech – and if not, you can read it in a few days – you have come to say that in the Old Part of Donostia we had loaded the historical heritage. I've said, "Man, I'm surprised," but, as I'm not perfect, I say, "Well, I've missed out on what historical heritage we've taken on in the Old Party that resulted in the Donostiaras as well as 'Look, we've taken on something and I haven't noticed'." Look, you didn't tell me: what are you talking about, the industrial heritage in the Old Part of Donostia? I didn't just catch him, so what I do ask you again is... Secondly, the issue of rents. Listen, make no mistake, because the rentals in the Old Party of Donostia were expensive until there was terrorism and no tourists came, until some of us could not even walk through the Old Party of Donostia because terrorism prevented us from going to that area, and the rentals were already expensive. No, it must do a lot of grace to some people, but some we could not attend and some others who left their lives in the Old Party, because, man, grace, little, no, none, none, and then the rents in the Old Party, Mrs. García, I can assure you, were very expensive, the highest average in Spain. And I repeat again, the price of housing was also expensive in the rest of Donostia and tourism was not to blame because tourism did not go to Alza, to neighborhoods like Alza. Do you understand? That's why I told him not to focus so much on tourism as that demon, the evil of the film in which everything is terrifying and it's also the evil of everyone...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u76	Quiet, Mrs. Garcia. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u77	Of course, a little respect because I've been quiet and you haven't; so, respect me a little bit. I know you don't like it, but, hey, where they take it, so... What I have come to explain to you and explain is that I wish we could find ourselves on the road on a good day, but with Elkarrekin Podemos or with a joint group that denies the general conclusions of a presentation on tourism like the one that took place at the Gipuzkoa General Councils without even putting a particular vote, because, frankly, I think we are going to have a difficult one. I hope your position and that of your group is different, and we will surely be able to meet on the way. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETX Well, I think it's true. You're right, Mrs. García, the two texts are very similar. [[Berber]] I'm telling you the reason. I don't know, on top... Ah! Well... That yes, that I tell you they are quite similar, but the speeches that support those two texts that are very similar are very different. And, of course, what we do not accept is to criticize the Government because it is not doing it, when I have tried to prove in my first intervention that it is doing it, and it is doing it for a long time in a planned way, in a studied way and in a thoughtful way. And not only that, but also from an operational point of view in collaboration with the rest of the institutions and the sector. And you deny that; then, that, too, it seems to me that it is not acceptable on our part. And, well, I don't know, but I was going to tell him in the first intervention but he didn't give me time. Someday, I don't know, in the face of the future we'll have to... Mr. Casanova has had three or four strokes, but what is quality tourism for you, Mrs. García? You'd have to define it. What is quality tourism? Is tourism the most expensive? Is he therefore – equal – an elitist? I'm asking questions, not statements. Is it possible to reconcile the fact that few people come with affordable prices and then very good wages for staff working in the tourism field? I'm asking for a way of thinking. And then there is already a paragraph in your proposal that has drawn my attention. You have quoted it and read it out, but, well, it says: "To make tourism and travel more slow and slow, less massive and more sustainable is today a possible answer to the problem of the difficult compatibility between the quantitative growth of the tourism industry..." –well, of course, that, too, we have to take into account the demand, and we live in free societies – "...and the negative social, economic, cultural, environmental impacts that generate tourist flows". Okay. What is this about "... slowing down and paused, less massed and more sustainable journeys, is today a possible answer"? Do we make a strategic plan and put a company like this you and I, to see if it's viable, or to see if it's profitable, or to see if we survive? And I don't want to be demagogic, but it's true what Mrs. Corcuera told you, I totally agree. You in your motion, and generally on this subject, speak of generalities, but then concrete measures that are realistic, that are achievable, because, really, we do not see them anywhere, honestly we do not see them, that they have a certain common sense and that they also respect a number of principles. Because, of course, regulating people's flows, I don't know how you do that. Shall we set the borders? What do we do? Don't you? Of course, it's just that you have these kinds of questions coming to your mind when you make these kinds of statements. And, well, quickly and telegraphically, Mr Casanova, in the Euroregion and the collaboration between Aquitaine, Euskadi and Nafarroa is the tourism field. The cider factory you're talking about in Bilbao isn't all your life either; it was all your life's hardware store. Well, then, things are changing. Gaztelugatxe. Well, yes, you have to regulate, there are already some tickets, and, well, you can regulate the flow of people per day, etc., etc. But, well, I mean that the whole problem can't be concentrated on having a proper signage, that I think that has to exist. But, well, I've already told you what happens to museums, parks, aquariums, all those places that have a certain appeal. From the Old Party of Donostia, then, I tell you, the Town Hall of Donostia is already being occupied, with the mayor, Eneko Goia, at the head. Perhaps some attention should be paid to some festivals that are celebrated or organized in the port, for example, on some dates. These do cause dirt, noise, discomfort, etcetera, etcetera. And, well, I'm telling you, we don't deny that there are any negative effects either. Indeed, I believe that, if we read the Government's texts and our own interventions, they go in that direction, to take advantage of tourism as a source of wealth to create an economy, to create employment with a number of values, principles, at last, what I mentioned in my first intervention. But, like any human activity, I would dare to say that it has negative effects; then, indeed, those negative effects must be mitigated as far as possible. And I think that's what we're in, and that's what the Basque government is in, and I think it's working well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u79	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote first with Podemos and EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u80	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Basque Sociists, and Eucabertarians, the middle-line correction that has been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 45; counters, 0; white, 0, 0; abstain, 28.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u81	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "To collect, and together to produce another proposition, made by parlamentary groups of Podemos, in order to study and prevent the sexual abuses against children, in order to make propositions for truth and observation. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Arana, representative of the Podemos, has the word to present and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u82	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. It is also open to those invited to attend this debate, representatives of associations, survivors and family members and friends. Before we begin the debate I want to express to you the gratitude of all Elkarrekin We can for your courage, for your commitment to the truth and for your firm and determined will to end sexual violence against children and adolescents. We sincerely thank you that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u83	Arana, hold on. He can't leave the press. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u84	It's here, in my shirt; I mean, get a picture of me. We sincerely appreciate that you have taken a step forward, that you are bringing to light such difficult situations for you and yourselves, for your families and for society. We are confident that it is the right way to heal wounds and the only possible way to face the past, present and future of childhood and adolescence with the responsibility they deserve. Thank you, from the heart. This initiative and the political debate that we are going to have today in this Parliament is, without a doubt, the product of your generosity, your reflections, demands and proposals. We are truly satisfied with the unanimous agreement that we seem to be signing today. Because today, in Parliament, we are going to make a great qualitative leap, unprecedented, in the way in which child sexual abuse and somehow all sexual violence are dealt with on the Basque political agenda. Today, with this proposal not for a complete law, and especially with the creation of a paper for prevention, memory, truth and reparation, sexual violence will be truly treated as it is, a violation of human rights that must be central to the Basque political agenda, which requires political and institutional responses. On the road to moving towards a more just, more egalitarian society, to building and defending democratic coexistence and a society based on the defence of human rights and peace, it is absolutely essential that we face all the violence, which are ideological, cultural and symbolic bases that occur in our society against those who are in a situation of greatest vulnerability. And child sexual abuse is one of the forms of such violence that, for cultural, symbolic and ideological reasons, go through society as a whole. Violence in childhood and adolescence isolated from the inequalities present in our society cannot be analysed. We live in an adult-centric and patriarchal social model. This means that in our society adult people in general, and adult men in particular, are placed in a position of privilege and superiority. And that makes certain abusive behaviors naturalized and legitimized towards those who consider themselves inferior; in this case, towards childhood and adolescence. Child sexual abuse is one more of the violence that generates and at the same time perpetuates inequalities on the basis of gender and generations that intersect and are present in absolutely all areas of society. As a society we have to look in the mirror without deception. You have to sing the truths. But not to mourn, but to face them with responsibility. This isn't about some sick people. It's not isolated episodes, this is more widespread than we'd like. Child sexual abuse is part of structural violence, and it cannot and should not be buried in the past, it cannot and should not be hidden in the privacy and pains of homes and family stories. Today, the law sets deadlines that do not always respond to the possibilities and processes of people who have experienced this type of sexual violence. Nor to the processes and capacity of institutions and society to listen, embrace and support victims. To talk and tell you have to be confident that you will be heard and embraced. That is best known to adults who for a few months now have the courage to make public the violence they suffered when they were children or adolescents. A short but firm and strong phrase ("I do believe you", "Nik sinesten diziut"), is full of confidence and breaks with centuries of stigma, of systematically questioning the word of the victims, and is the path to end silence and impunity. It must resound in institutions and in society as a whole. It must be our guide to listen to children and adolescents, and from today to listen in this institution to adults who were unable to speak or were not given the opportunity to tell. For justice, possible crimes have been prescribed. In recent months, numerous cases of sexual abuse in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s are emerging into the public eye that will not be able to have legal recourse. However, a group of Neighbors and Neighbors of Deusto, in Bilbao, a few months ago, in the demonstration that took place there, carried a banner in which one could read: "The truth does not prescribe". From this agreement, a space will be opened in Parliament for listening to violations, so that the truth does not prescribe, for listening, as I said, to these human rights violations against children and adolescents that occurred decades ago. We will know the truth of those who were children and today are adult survivors. We are going to make an effort to build collective memory, to recognize the victims and their pain, and, somehow, we are going to repair the damage of violence and also the damage caused by silence, either by omission actively or passively exercised by the institutions and the adult world, who did not know how to listen, embrace and protect, or because we did not have sufficient structures for the children who were attacked to take the initiative. This agreement is not the first one we have reached on this subject, nor is it the first debate we have on sexual abuse of children in this Parliament. We have brought from Elkarrekin We have several initiatives and some unanimous agreements have been reached. The first of the agreements is two years ago, exactly, in the Commission on Human Rights. We are presenting an initiative to create a presentation on policies against violence against children and adolescents. Unfortunately, there were parties that opposed the creation of this paper. On June 5, 2017, two years ago, in the Commission on Human Rights, I said, "We will continue to push for initiatives to keep Euskadi's policies in this area up to the gravity of the problem." I am glad that today we are again discussing this or a similar presentation and today it will be approved. But I want to highlight the agreement that was finally agreed at that time, because we thought it was better than nothing to reach any agreement, even if it was small. So we were flexible, we accepted the discounts. The initiative urged the Government to undertake a study of cases of sexual abuse as soon as possible. And, as I said that day, and we continue to say, today we again call on the Government to implement those initiatives that have been approved here and that have not yet been implemented. It has been two years and we are still not doing it well, so we also urge the Basque Government in this initiative to take action as soon as possible on those initiatives that were adopted at the time. In this paper we are going to work on memory, truth, reparation for those who did not have the opportunity to speak when they suffered violence or for those who spoke but did not have institutional answers and now they do not have the possibility of judicial proceedings. And that is a very important part of looking to the future and it will be an element to take into account from now on. But, I see, the creation of this paper does not relieve the Basque Government of any responsibility with the agreements reached, as I have said before, in the last two years by this Parliament or with its current actions. That's why we from Elkarrekin can continue to follow up on the actions of the Basque Government and present initiatives because we want the past to be faced – which is why we are making the presentation – and we also want real answers and resolutions to be given to the children of the present and the future. I conclude, and I want to close this point with the word I have started with, recognizing the work of so many people, recognizing the work of the survivors, their families, their friends and all the people in society who have been able to accompany and cover them. And also by entering into this agreement, which is not our agreement, but is yours. Parliament's plenary today will agree to make a presentation within two months of the adoption of this initiative, which will be set up within the Commission on Human Rights and Equality, so that, through the accounts and the truth of the victims of sexual abuse prescribed in the judicial sphere and expert agents or other actors involved, a study will be prepared within six months. We will work intensively on the presentation so that it has the best possible results and we will continue to work in all areas and institutions to make the prevention and eradication of violence against children and adolescents a priority issue on the Basque political agenda. Eskerrik asko, and this is for you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u86	Good noon, everyone. The truth is that I have to tell you that under very, very nervous, I think that because of the importance of the debate that we are having today, because of the importance of the agreement that we have reached, and I feel, the truth, very fortunate to be the representative of EH Bildu when it comes to thanking you for the work you have done, which has brought us here, which has brought us to this consensus and which will lead us to a very hard, very hard work, but I think it is very necessary. Maddalen Iriarte just this week told us in the group that journalist Mirentxu Purroy, a few years ago, in a report she made on TV about the ablation, she urged when she was presenting that documentary not to look elsewhere, that they were going to show images of an ablation, that it was going to be an extremely harsh image, but please don't look elsewhere so that we were aware of what was happening. And he was now telling Madalen that he wanted to use that idea that he told us, and he was telling me that she was forced to look at that moment, when Mirentxu made that request, and that he was stuck with those images. I believe that today, what we are putting on the table is that request, that we keep our eyes open and that we do not look elsewhere on this reality that I think because of the pain, because of how painful, because of how violent it has been and we have decided to look elsewhere for trying to take care of ourselves, the people we were not victims, for trying to move forward with what was happening in this society, and here we are thanks to some of you who decided that it was about time we didn't look elsewhere. And today, what we do is that request: we all ask the same thing. For me, at least, today is not the day to throw flowers at us or to celebrate the agreement, but it is a duty we had. I think we're late, but here we are. Here we are, at your side, and none of the people we are here are going to look elsewhere again, because it is a situation that exists in school, in leisure time, at home, and we have a duty to see, analyze and reformulate what we have been doing so far, what we have been doing well, but, above all, what we lack to do, what we have been doing wrong. And it is you, the associations, the people who were victims and who are still working today to question us, the ones who have marked the way for us. It is for you and you that we have unanimity today, it is for you and you that we take up this challenge. Because it seems to me that it is a huge challenge for us here in Parliament to be left with the people who will carry out this work. Everything is to be built: truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. These are words we have learned from memory, but they say a lot about what we still have to do with you and with you. This will be the axis to which this work is directed: the truth, the justice, the observation, and the assurance never to repeat again. Let us examine the system, and see what it uses, or what is to be done to give it; let us look for a Reservative Justice, and set bounds to it. Eta gauza beat esaten amaituko dut: egiak ez du preskribatzen, guk sinesten zaituztegu; the truth does not prescribe, we and we believe you. And with that idea we will go to work on the paper: to listen, to propose and to change everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u88	Thank you, President, and good afternoon. First of all, I would like to thank those who, from generosity, have decided to join us in this debate today, which is not a debate but a recognition of what has happened, and, above all, to place ourselves with those who are here and who will be part of that paper to work. Once again, society has gone ahead of politics and today we are in this plenary because you have brought us here and because you have given us duties. The Socialist Group understands that this is not a debate of acronyms, it is not a debate of political parties, although it is true and we must recognise that it is for this reason that politics must serve, of course, a policy understood with capital letters. We are dealing with a debate in which, after listening to Mrs Etxebarrieta, little would have to be added because I share 100% of what she has said in the tone and in the forms, and, indeed, little will I be able to say again that it has not already been said. As I said, we are facing a debate that has been invisible for too long because talking about sexual abuse of boys and girls, of course, is talking about guilt. Guilty people who were and are at home, in school, in the Church of which it was very difficult to talk, in the neighborhood and in the nearest environment. All those who should and should protect, however, sometimes caused and cause the greatest of violence. Silence and invisibility are the best allies of those who abused and abused. Although adults sometimes sense it, although sometimes we see suffering for a long time, silence, for too long, has been the protagonist. It is the silence that forced the victims to silence and, unintentionally, end up protecting their abusers. For some time now, the victims have dared to give a voice to what they have experienced. The same happened with violence against women: until visibility did not arrive the true citizen and political consciousness did not arrive. Because it exists today, but it's been there a long time. As we said in a plenary session where we talk about this issue, children now have a protection they never had, but subject to the protection and guardianship of other people. Childhood is a valuable asset for society, but at the same time it is invisible and it is kept to the will of the elderly, who, as we have already said, are not always guarantees of protection. As the proposing groups put forward in their original initiative, we in this Parliament have dealt with this issue on several occasions. What has been experienced is acknowledged, what has happened is condemned and, of course, today we are committed to working for the victims to achieve the truth, justice and reparation they deserve. Although 70 per cent of child victims say that they warned an adult about what was going on, only 15 per cent of cases are reported to the police; 70 per cent of those cases never came to trial. The judicial process lasts on average for three years; in some cases it reaches five. Sexual abuse lasts an average of four years. It torments you, tortures you all your life if it's not treated and sometimes kills you. In 86% of cases the minor has to testify in plenary sessions in open trials, before three judges and also before the alleged perpetrator. In politics and in the law things go too slowly; others, as in this case, unforgivably slowly. The struggle to support child victims of sexual abuse is a matter of politics and more than that, because it has to do with humanity. The system created specifically to protect the most vulnerable has been broken for a very long time and no longer serves. We want to create safe spaces wherever they are, free from abuse for our children, that Euskadi is a safer place for them. We know what is needed, but, above all, we can help the victims to get right with the implementation of those measures that we all recognize we need to put in place, and that is what this presentation should do, and also the organizations and associations that have worked to combat sexual violence against minors; some will be possible from our level of competence – and we will do so – and for others we will have to pressure the institutions to do so. It has to be a priority objective. Compulsory training, protocols and a thorough reform of the judicial process are essential to ensure that cases of child sexual abuse genuinely respect the rights of the child and also his or her particular needs, that he or she has been tried with specific judges prepared and hastened trials so that the child may declare only once, in private, with the presumption that the truth is being told. When it comes to children, we must stop distinguishing by law between abuse and aggression, because we always know what it is. The Socialists are committed. It seems that the ballot boxes gave the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party the Government of Spain, and Pedro Sánchez has committed himself to establishing in the new political agenda of the legislature as a priority the adoption of a law that eliminates violence against children and adolescents and focuses, in particular, on preventive measures, as suggested twice by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child to the Government of Spain. The generosity of the victims who will appear in this presentation will be the best resource in the task of changing things to the best permanently for the children of our country. The position, not only of politics, but also of society, can never again be not to speak, not to see, not to hear, to do as if we do not see what we all really know exists. We give visibility to child abuse, because there are many adults interested in this being maintained, because it has been transmitted from generation to generation, because it is a taboo, because it is part of a hypocritical culture and recognition causes us guilt and shame, we do not talk about the subject. We will break the conspiracy of silence created even unintentionally about child sexual abuse. Experts agree that most sexual abuse continues to occur within the family and school, as was the case in the Church, because it is common where there is a hierarchy of power, where it can be abused with a sense of impunity. There are now reports of abuses in the Catholic Church, also in Spain and in Euskadi, but there are abuses in the family, in schools, in the field of sport, as in any place where there is a hierarchy of power. The problem is that the magnitude of sexual abuse in all countries is ignored, no matter where you put the border; in fact, there are no reliable records, but it is not isolated cases, but it is an infinitely serious and real reality. The family remains the battlefield, and hence the difficulty of the struggle. It is very important that the minor dares to report his or her situation, even in cases where it is the parents who use his or her children on some occasions, to profit from the sexual exploitation of their children. That's changing – it's true – with social media, because before, only trusted people, the environment, schools, the family had access to minors, but today there's a danger on the other side of the screen, and it's true that we all have to work on measures to make this work. Fear, shame or guilt paralyze minors who suffer abuse, who are caught between peer pressure, taboos on sexuality, admiration for the superior, coach or passion for the sport they practice. Therefore, our main demand is to be able to know in greater depth the scope of the situation. We know we're facing the tip of an iceberg we don't know about. We must start giving voice and putting on the glasses of seeing violence for so long and with so much damage against our boys and girls, and we must start talking to encourage minors to report bullying situations. We believe that we lack awareness, we lack concern, we lack commitment, we lack training on this phenomenon, because, for starters, an approach has always been given that it is a crime. – which is – but it has been understood that it is also a serious violation of human rights, and therefore states and governments should put in place the appropriate means for their prevention. It is up to us to face an infinite, historical, invisible and silent responsibility, that of sexual abuse in childhood. Giving voice, visibility, truth, justice and memory to their stories of harm and violence, learning from them and, above all, from them, learning from the organizations that have treated them and accompanied them and taking political action are our responsibility, the past, the present and the future. No one can keep looking elsewhere; as with so many other things, looking elsewhere always has a huge bill to pay, and in this case, it is the memory of the victims. Of course, for those who have been in politics for many years, as for me, I think it is a pride to be able to be part of a paper such as today's one that will be supported, and I hope that among all of us, far from the acronyms, from the partisan interests, we will be able to be part of the solution. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u89	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Chief of Staff, Congressman, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoons, and particularly welcome to this meeting. What is more important than what we are now saying is that I am going to prolong a great deal the work you've done, the work that has brought us here, and above all what we're going to discuss, and the consequences we're going to find out in this power are of real importance. And today we have a deal because we share ends with all groups, and especially because we know where the road is. And because we think that power is the way we're going to take. We'll work hard among all and hope to have results of this kind. To find the truth, is to take proper measures and measures, to help the victims and families, and above all to inform us that you are not only victims and families, but that you are all of us. Esan bezala, teenagers gaude jatorrizko proposemenarekin, eta horrela esan dugu. Baina gehitzeko zuzenketa bat aurkeztu genuine ekimen hori osatzeko asmo bakarrarekin. Eta zuzenketa horrek bi puntu ditu: take into account the non-legislative proposal adopted in Parliament on 20 December 2018 on sexual violence against children and adolescents; and also take into account the non-legislative proposal adopted in the Commission on Human Rights and Equality on 5 June 2017 on the creation of a paper with the task of making an evaluation report with recommendations on policies against violence against children and adolescents. In addition, take into account the work and data obtained by the Zeuk Esan service and request the media to report violations of the rights of minors mentioned in the service. Your service is directed to children and teenagers. He's a council service, his phone number (the phone is from 116-1-1), is anonymous and he doesn't leave a trace of the bill. We're asking the aid of media to become more and more familiar, so we've added our correction. This service that has served five years provides guidance, orientation, and information through a team of professional experts. Every day of the year they work on the phone or online, including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. Though it be directed to children and teenagers, yet the adults may use it, and if they know or see any serious situation, there is service to them too. We are familiar with the abuse of children and teenagers in the '70s and 80s and '90s, and besides helping these victims and their families, our purpose is to avoid such abominable attacks. They were other times, things like that kept quiet, it didn't show the truth, and it was often important. It's a pity that these attacks happen nowadays, but we've gone a step ahead and especially thanks to you, and they're recognized, they don't hide. We think that's a big step forward. Those who were children and teenagers at that time are now ripe, and the damage they received is really for the rest of their lives. But, though late, they deserve recination and confession, and, above all, have the right to tell their truth. The first years of a child's life are important to his physical development, but especially to his psychology. And as those who are well versed in these matters know what to see, children learn it. And we, grown-ups, are their models for good and evil. And when we're a mother or a father, there's a great deal of doubt about us, but we try to give emotionally everything they need, and material enough for each one. But, alas, there are some families where it is impossible to give, either because the family cannot or because this family does not exist, and in the gravest cases the children see or receive violence. And when this violence is excluded from families, in other areas (in training, leisure... ) Parents do not know that because the child is afraid, and that he tells nothing. And when they see that the mischief is done, and the inpotency that springs from it is enormous. We want you to stop repeating this because it's unacceptable and because we have to work a lot among all of us. That's our commitment. You go on working, because it's work, you know, because it's fun doing a job, because you do a job in the law, and that's our commitment. To follow and work hard in power. I said I won't be prolonged because we're going to have to go through words, and because we're going to work hard on it, honest and conscientious. And we need to strengthen prevent prevent prevent prevent prevent the intervention of problems and attacks through prevention. When they are found there must be solutions, but it would certainly be a step forward to strengthen that prevention. And to Ms. Arana, House Farmer, and Miss Rojo, and Mr. Barri, thank you for helping me open this road, thank you so much for being with us today, and above all for the work we're going to do and the way we're going to do. Really, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Popular. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, there's already been a lot of arguments; I'll be brief. "Never again" or "Enough already", we have used those definitive expressions in relation to what we have suffered, with other expressions of violence that we have suffered in this country. And they have been graphic expressions, blunt expressions, important expressions. Just like blunts we have to be also with sexual violence in this case that we are talking about. My group will, logically, vote in favour of the proposed initiative, which refers to addressing within the Commission on Human Rights work on analysis, the consequences of sexual abuse of children, adolescents, in our society, and, above all, its terrible consequences, and to addressing this issue, so that this will never happen again. We also understood that the adoption of the non-legislative proposals of 2017 and 2018 already laid a path for institutional response and action, and that from this Parliament we could well follow, contemplate and analyze the fruits of that political action, which also existed working groups and initiatives in progress. Indeed, the initiative itself, the non-law proposal of 2018, is very extensive in relation to highlighting, first of all, organizations, entities, people who are working on these issues, sexual abuse of minors, and putting duties and putting work to the public authorities, each within their sphere of action and competence, to establish many issues. Concrete actions, preventive actions, protocols, detection, protection of minors, talking about reparations even, strengthening inspection protocols, we were talking about education, that is, it was an amalgamation of issues that already established a job. In any case, well, we will in no way refuse to continue to form here now, in Parliament, and in the Commission on Human Rights, areas of analysis that reject these open situations, these open behaviors, and build what we have to do among all, and more from a Parliament: social models and habits, legal habits, cultural, educational habits, that preserve young people, that preserve children from the dangers of abuse, the dangers of fear, that cruelty. Well, I believe that in the presentation we can run the risk of repeating analyses that are already being done, although that, in any case, will be a matter of our work plan, of the objectives, indeed, of the methodology, the seriousness and the rigour with which we approach that work that will also complete actions and works that are already doing many institutions, many working groups, many associations. And, in that sense, it is what we can do: not to repeat ourselves but to complement or open new paths. Well, we all want those attitudes to never be repeated again, as they embarrass any society. That is why we will be working on that paper. I would also like to make one last thought: how easy and exciting it is for some to talk about delegitimizing any kind of sexual violence towards childhood and adolescence. How easy, but how difficult it is for them to delegitimize that terrorist violence that ended the lives of so many children and adolescents and ruined the lives of so many children and adolescents. I would like this reflection to serve. Indeed, we talk about childhood and adolescence, we talk about ruined lives and we talk about outstanding subjects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u93	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Nobody wants to talk, right? End of discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos, EH Collect, Eukal Socialists, and the middle-line correction that the Eunciators have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u94	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. [[Applause]] The eighth point in the subject list: "The other proposal, as the Parlamentary People made by the Parlamentary Groups of Euscals, concerning the budget extension, and the fulfilment of the law 2/2019. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Lord Damboena, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will try to be brief, as some colleagues from other groups ask me. We have put forward a non-legislative proposal for a Government that complains of obstruction of the work of the Basque Government by opposition groups, and we are asking the Basque Government to comply with its own laws, which they approve, even those that are approved without negotiation or a coma with anyone. Because that is the work of the Government, the work of the Government is to enforce the laws passed in this Parliament, including those passed by the Basque Government. And in this case we are referring to the Budget Prorogation Act, we are referring to nominal games and we are referring to all of them. To all, those originally coming from groups supporting the Basque Government and those which, through amendments, were adopted in that draft budget, in the Budget Act in force last year. All of them. And, of course, when someone complains about obstruction and what they do is they fail to comply with their own laws, we'll have to start giving some twist to this about what's going on. Or perhaps we are witnessing such a powerless, powerless government that, as the counselor told us two plenary sessions ago, when we were talking about a nominative UNED grant, she tells us "On January 10, 2019... " – that is, when we were in Budget Extension – "... The Department of Education informed the UNED centre that its proposal was set out in the budget that was not approved." Look, the budget extension was already in effect, Madam Counsellor, since 1 January; not because the government would have decided, I don't know if it wanted to... He didn't get the deal, the deals he had with Bildu. What do the matches you have in your department say in this particular case? In its written reply on 23 April it says that it is 197,000 euros. And you told them no, that 90,000. This is what you have in the law, this is what you have to comply with. Don't tell me it was extraordinary. What do you mean, it's extraordinary? Listen, no, no items are extraordinary in the budget. Not just this one, of any kind. Or that we receive with respect to another department, in this case the Health department, tells us "It has told us that this year we do not have that subsidy, that they have taken us off the list and have given to other associations that were not on the list." But what kind of Basque government do we have? What is going on with this government that is failing to comply with its Budgets Act? Because it's also necessary to have value. It was not necessary for you to tell us, as we were told in Law 2/2019 of 14 February, additional provision 2: "In particular, it will be understood to extend the spending authorizations for grants that are nominally allocated in the general budgets of the Community of Euskadi in the 2018 financial year, provided that you do not finance programmes and actions that by their nature should have been completed in that financial year". This article was unnecessary. This is already regulated, as the lawyers of the Basque Government said when you brought it, in Legislative Decree 1/2011, of the budgetary regime of Euskadi, extension regime, article 128 (b). It was already, it was not necessary, but they expressly, expressly, put it, and they are failing to do so. And what do the groups that support the government do? Because we, what we are asking the government to do is to comply with its Budget Prorogation Act. Groups supporting the Government are amending. Why do they amend? To ensure that the Government does not comply with its Budget Extension Act. And what do they tell us? If it is a powerless government that has had parliamentarians of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party – who, in the end, know something about this – sign this amendment! "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to extend the authorisations." But, listen up, this is illegal. The Basque Government does not extend anything, it is extended by law – ipso iure Man, and when those laws also respond to a prior agreement, not only is the law being breached, the agreement being breached. And I would like to remind the gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party that five months ago we told them that to agree and reach agreements we must do so with people who comply with the agreements they sign. And that when they are not fulfilled it is difficult to pretend that others continue to agree or agree. We are not obstructing the work of the Basque Government, we are urging the Basque Government to rule with the law in hand, with which you passed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u96	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u97	Thank you, President. I'll be brief because the time is a little untimely now. Well, for us... I was telling you when Mr. Damborenea was coming up that he didn't talk much about education. I am going to focus more on that issue, than on what Mr Damborenea is best handled is on the economic issue. For us education, which is also what we are talking about, is a pillar in itself, one of the essential pillars of our policies and essential for the progress of society because it defines the society to which we belong, as well as an impetus for the growth and advancement of the country. And, therefore, in this case that concerns us, the University of Álava should be a priority for all; of course, for us it is. It is a teaching method that facilitates the study for many students, students who can combine and match their working life with their studies, as they can also attend tutoring at the corresponding degrees. And it's also intergenerational. We are not talking about a specific group of school-age citizens, there are many elderly people even enrolled in UNED because they believe that of lifelong learning. And it is true that there has been a budgetary extension, but as referred to in the non-legislative proposal, additional provision 2 of Law 2/19, "Authorisations of expenditure for grants that appear nominally allocated in the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for the financial year 2018 shall be understood to be extended, provided that they do not finance programmes or actions that by their nature should have been completed in that financial year". Well, that's what it says, and that's what the amendment that we have tabled with the Nationalist Group is also saying. But I would like to remind Mr Damborenea that it is precisely in the Government of Javier de Andrés, in the Foral Diputación de Álava, a Government of the People's Party, when the budget of UNED is cut, leaving a deficit of 100,000 euros, which is the one that continues to be maintained to date, with the Socialists, by amendment, proposing that budget for UNED. I must also remind you that being Isabel Celaá, the education adviser of the Basque Government, is when we entered the UNED Board again, because we were outside the previous Government. In this case, the Basque Government is a member of the employers' office and will have to decide what it wants to do, whether to lower and reduce the services offered by the University to Distance from Álava and offer (reducing hours, classes, tutoring) or to agree in the employers' office itself to reach a solution to this situation. Of course, it is not only the Basque Government that must be involved in this situation and be responsible for resolving this problem, but also the other institutions that take part in the patronage and, therefore, in the resolution of this conflict. All the Alaws, together with the Basque Government, will have to provide a solution and subsidize UNED in the most appropriate and sustainable way possible. Of course, the socialists do not want to reduce or decrease the services offered and offered by the University of Álava, but we also contribute to the improvement of those services. All students have to be guaranteed quality education, and it is our obligation to offer it. It is the effective exercise of the right to a universal education of quality everywhere and under any circumstances, and we must focus our attention on the distribution of resources for education. And I wanted to take this opportunity to appeal to all political forces and all institutions, because it gives me the impression that in some parties and in some institutions the University of Distance Education is perceived as a sort of strange element to the country and, therefore, it is given a consideration that I think should be much more affectionate and closer. And in that university, I would like to recall that in Bizkaia, Álava and Gipuzkoa, in their different centers, thousands and thousands of Basque citizens, of all ages, are enrolled who use that UNED service because otherwise they would not be able to obtain the title, either by age or by work. And, therefore, I want to say that regardless of ownership, whether it is a state-owned university or not, it also serves the Basque Autonomous Community. And I want this appeal to serve everyone in this House. Let us not consider it a non-national entity, because it is not. UNED has services that it finances from the central services and has other complementary ones that decide within the same employers' office, and in that employer's office there is the Basque Government, there is the deputy of Álava, there are the municipalities... I would not like it to happen as for many years it passed with the University a Distance from the center of Portugalete in Bizkaia. I spent 16 years as mayor fighting with municipalities and administrations to convince them that it was important, necessary and convenient to provide funds to that institution. I do not think that the institution of the University of Distance Education deserves us to have to look at budgetary discussions every short time to guarantee the academic life of this institution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u98	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, all the afternoons. The topic we have today to discuss is another proposition, as presented by Popular groups, in this case, about the extensions of the ancients and the law of 2/2019, but the subject of the finance of the UNED faculty is also following. In this discussion, though in the full council of the control, there are several points which must be solved and explained again, not only for us, but also for all who are listening to it. There are, in our opinion, three of the most remarkable points about this discussion; euscal University system, extension of the âvæba UNEDs and the past. All three of them have been confused by Popular groups in another proposition as well as themselves, and although they are connected, each must be understood in its own context, and must thus be understood to take out the full and better picture. First of all, we have an Esscal University System. Not long ago the Board of Education presented the new Plan of the 2019-2022 Basque University. By this means the Board of Education had a strong commitment that our society, the Basque society, is prepared to face and express its future hinges to answer the hinges, and to strengthen the investigations and politics of our system's excellence. Relations between university and business, internationalization, relations with society, impulse of studies in Basque, are just some of the points in which this plan deepens, whose center, whose gaze is mainly placed in Basque. University of the Basque Country, Mondragon Unibertsitatea, University of Deusto, are our universities, which make up our system of Basque universities and universities, therefore, of Basques and Basques. Now, passing on to the second of the points I was commenting on at the beginning of my speech, is the one concerning the situation of the associated UNED Araba centre in Vitoria-Gasteiz. First of all, we have to say that UNED is a public university, and that science is subject to the Ministry of Education, so that it is more than anyone else to guarantee the funds of UNEDs. As you know, UNED headquarters is located in Madrid and then has a wide network of partner centres throughout and outside the State. In particular, in Euskadi it consists of three: in Portugalete, in Bergara and also in Vitoria-Gasteiz. The aim of these associated centres is nothing other than to support the teaching provided by UNED and also to support students face-to-face, since, while the philosophy of UNED is to offer distance-learning, it also has these centres in order to be able to do so face-to-face and to welcome, guide and assist students of UNED. These bodies are autonomous, depending on their headquarters in Madrid, although it must be said that for academic subjects they do so to the whole of Madrid. And, of course, they are also sponsored by corporations and public and private entities that financially support UNED and its associated centres. In this regard, I believe it is important to highlight the existing formula for the Basque Government and UNED to work together and that, although it is not a direct funding because it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Innovation and Universities, the Basque Government supports it in this way, and it is none other than that of the partnership agreement, which is thus reflected in the budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. He spoke previously of the Basque university system, and I think it is important to stress that any of the studies offered by UNED in Euskadi are not governed by academic criteria of our system, academic criteria that are specified more deeply throughout the Plan of the Basque University System, nor do they meet the criteria of job integration or social needs of Euskadi, much less when we talk about the impulse of studies in Euskara. We can therefore openly say that it has neither coordination nor organizational dependence on the Basque Government, neither in legal terms nor in academic terms. And yet, despite the above, there is a partnership agreement between the Basque Government and UNED, as I said earlier, which allows to articulate and vertebrate also face-to-face university teachings, such as regulated titles, continuing education and university extension. With regard to UNED's own funding, I think it is important to highlight how these partner centres are financed, because the allocation by the Basque Government and the Department of Education in the Autonomous Community Budgets for UNED is for UNED Euskadi, the whole of UNED Euskadi, although it has three partner centres and, as you will know, if they have acceded to the agreement signed by both parties, is divided into two parts: a basic contribution, consisting of the 30 %, which is divided equally between the three associated centres, and a second part, which is the 70 % remaining, which is divided according to the enrolment in each of the centres in official studies. And I think this is important and that this is why there are differences within Euskadi between associated centers, such as those of Portugalete, Bergara or Vitoria-Gasteiz. Criteria, by the way, which are agreed upon –let me remind you – by the Rectorate of UNED, which are likely to be modified a posteriori And lastly, I have already mentioned that there were three of the most remarkable points about this subject. The latter would be the last extension of the ancients, and we would like to reflect on it a little. They will remember that at the beginning of the year the Basque Government communicated to UNED Euskadi – in particular to UNED Vitoria-Gasteiz – what was the budget heading, which was 400,000 euros. And here I think it is important – and it has already been commented upon, and that is why we supported our amendment – what is said in the second additional provision of Law 2/2019, which we believe is important and I believe is the main difference between the proposing group and us, since in it – you have already read it, but, well, in this case I too – the final collection says that as long as you do not finance programs or actions that are framed or that should have ended in the year that they are in force. We believe that a budget item that is subsequently amended In any case, Mr Damborenea, let me tell you that you could have done as you did in 2018, you could have proposed amending the 2019 Budget and you did not. You will have your reasons; you will know how to explain them. In any case, we will keep the amendment as it stands. And nothing else. Besterik gabe, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u100	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u101	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mrs. President, and thank you all. First of all, I will explain that we were a little surprised at the initiative, a little discussion we saw a Frankenstein, because on the one hand we've got it in the name of the initiative. sobre el cummplimiento de la prorioga presupuestaria y de la Ley 2/2019." Then he told her about the importance of the U.A. UNED, and the financial issues he has. And finally, what comes to test is 2018 again. The fulfilment of the previous year's extension and the law of 2019/2. I think it is a mixed debate of two very different things and I think that, in addition, given the profile of the speakers we are going to come out here, it was also the result of how the initiative was presented. And I think we are doing a weak favor in discussing a concrete budget part of a fight that you have with what was passed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party in 2018 and the law that was passed here. I think that by mixing both things, using a theme that can generate consensus – although, given Mr Alvarez's speech, I have my doubts – which is UNED, I do not think we are doing the debate a favour. First of all, UNED. Together we have always appeared from Podemos as defenders of the UNEDs, and for different reasons: Because it's public college, because our public college is also the UNED, which teaches at distance and with quality, and which has not so high a price, is the indispensable role for the workman to be able to study through life. A clear and robust defense of a public university that is also ours, that is also Basque, that is a university of quality and distance and that gets at prices of low rates that the working classes, the popular classes – and whoever also wants, of course – can continue to study throughout their life. And it also competes in a huge inequality, with a huge number of private universities at a distance that have relative control on the part of the public and really stratospheric prices. And I believe that, beyond the amendments tabled by the groups in the Budgets, and this debate which I think is mixed up in this Parliament today, I believe that the whole of the Basque institutions should put the UNED, and this Parliament, the first institution that should do so, into value. Because it fulfils an educational function, a social function and, in addition, it has a cost for the Spanish public coffers, and also for the Basques, that beyond that it is also an investment, it is a cost more than manageable, above all, for the social profitability that it has. Because, moreover, as has been explained, municipalities and parliaments, apart from the Basque Government, also make contributions to the associated centres. I think the UNED needs more public confession because of the function he's doing it. I think it would have to be included in our college plan. EHUs and UNEDs work in several parts in common. The latter, for instance, is, as I know, a new project of blockchain-unibertsity, and I believe that, although it is a state university, our work here, even in the Basque Country, is to spread and enlarge it. So I think we need a much deeper and more serious discussion, from the role the UNED fills in our town, about the finances it requires, and a large agreement, too. And here I have to refer a little bit to Mr Alvarez's speech, which has left me a little surprised. UNED is also a Basque university – that is, first of all – and in this Parliament we have many debates many times in abstract on what self-government is. The self-government is precisely to put the money, the financing that the municipalities have, which has the Diputación Foral de Bizkaia, that of Álava and that of Gipuzkoa and the Basque Government to serve the needs of the people. And if the UNED, a university that is here, which performs a very concrete and very valuable function, besides, of quality and prices, as I said, much more accessible to the citizen than the private universities – which are dating as mushrooms – and also with a historical trajectory, I believe that self-government also has to serve that, to improve that. Is the ministry the primary responsibility? Obviously, but that self-government must put it at the service of the social majority and the citizenry, too. Because, if not, what happens is that the skills we have, for example, in Bilbao, we use them to make a macro-island of private universities and we have, for example, this example: [[He showed a computer.]] "The Zorrozaurre University of Design will open the course in 2009 at 6,000 euros". You'll tell me who can fund 6,000 euros a course. And this is an example. With the island of Zorrozaurre, instead of serving alongside other neighborhoods in Bilbao to host the different faculties of the University of the Basque Country that need to expand and make a university city that prioritizes the public, we are making a marketing of private universities of dubious quality, at stratospheric prices. I think that's also to take into account. And by the way, I was saying that UNED wasn't in this college plan. [[He showed us a paper.]] It is true, it is not, but neither is any of these, and they are being given all the facilities of the world from the City of Bilbao, which govern you and also the Socialist Party from the Foral Diputation of Bizkaia, red carpet, all the urban and fiscal facilities of the world for you to come to Bilbao and for you to come to Bizkaia, while we are leaving aside... How many years have it taken us to have the Faculty of Medicine? Well, it's still not in motion. The works, how long has it taken? Screen! The others, red carpet. Well, as I said at the beginning, we have the educational part of the justification of the People's Party proposal, with which we agree, and on UNED I believe that our position, our absolute support, and also the increase in funding have become clear. We did so in the Finance Committee in 2018 and 2019 through our amendments to the Budgets and also through the amendments of the People's Party to the Budgets. And on the subject of the budget, little to add to what Mr Bollain was able to say in the debates we have had here. We vote that no to the Budgets of the year 2018, we also vote that no to the Budgets of the year 2019, although in both cases we present a serious platform of negotiation and we were willing to reach agreements as we continue to be, provided that they are agreements that benefit the Basque social majority and are not a tragala to the candidates of the government parties. We also abstained from the Accompaniment Act 2/2019 because we were aware that it also included, in addition to the salary increase of 2.25 civil servants, the salary increase to the high posts, with which we disagreed. Therefore, in this specific proposal of the PP we will also abstain. And what is true, and here we can agree with Mr Damborenea, is that, the Government, what it has to do is to comply with the commitments made and, of course, comply with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u102	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. EHG rep. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u103	Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Lord Damboena, what you ask is very logical and reasonable. You're demanding obedience to the law. How will the legislature refuse to comply with the law? Or how do we get the legislatures against keeping the law? Wouldn't that surprise you? We can agree with the budget or not. It appears that we didn't share the contents of the previous 2018, they had much to do with improvement. PP agreed to face the government, but if they're accepted, they're gonna have to be done, right? The law, therefore, of 2/2019, which is the extension of the former, must be fulfilled. And still more: If he who has made the law by which these affairs are established does not follow, who ought to do so? What's the government for? I'm telling you, the government has to be executed. But we know how the obedience of the law is here, according to the convictions, and where the laws remain, so, Monsieur Damborena, you have our approval this day. But even in saying this, we may say that it is not only logical to trace the line of money for the Rava UNED, because it would naturally lead to the whole organization, it would lead UNED to it, and then UNED would have to divide it between its sub-sections, would be logical. Why not the bakke, not the Portuguese, and not the Berger? It doesn't make any sense. It's not logical, nor is it, that the UNED organization is the right of Spain, and that if it's dependent on Madrid, it's funding them from here. But, uh, the financial direction to education and form will always be welcome, because education and formation are the foundation of a society, and there will always be but little of the finances designed to education and form. But it's about time, Madam Uriarte, and you've got to set up piles because you're not doing anything... I mean, a lot of nice words, but then the words are windy, even though you're good salesmen... You're a very fine salesman, and that's where I take my hat off in front of you. But that doesn't mean you're good at work and you're good managers. It's very nice and urgent to have an online offer started at Esscal University. We don't have an offer at the Basque Country University, ladies and gentlemen. Our rightful hand, it's your right hand. Or don't you? You should do something about it. And, consequently, our young people are obliged to go abroad, so we make an enormous investment as a society, and as a government, in the fundamental stages, we arrive at a moment, and our young men must go. That, yes, you'll make a very pretty speech later, so that our young men don't go, I don't know what kind of business you have, but reality, that's what happens now. And here too, the university and the formation of the distance and education can play an important part. Then it's no use complaining and crying. We need to find out, but maybe you've got other plans we don't know. And in that sense, we defend a long-distance university. And we think it's a matter of priority and necessity, Madam Uriarta, because we don't want our young men to be forced to go to Valcia, Errixa, and other places. If they will and will, it will be well, but if they wish to remain here, and besides, if they wish to learn of it, is it right to study it or not? I'm just saying. That's a popular rap, that's an strategic popular rap. So, Mr. Damborena, in the meantime, you have our approval today, because the proposal you've made is very reasonable. But, Mrs. Uriart, put the batteries up and start working, so you can start working on an online offer in the Basque Country University. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. It's the answer time. Basque Popular. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Ubera, I was wondering how we're going to vote against the law. Well, let's see how the parties that support the government vote against law enforcement, that's what we'll see within a moment. And, man, that UNED depends on Madrid's funding? Yes and no. Not only that of Madrid, but of all Basque institutions. Mr. Pastor, I have not tabled a motion on education. My group has tabled a non-legislative proposal entitled "that the budget be complied with and implemented". And we ask that, the whole budget, not just with regard to UNED, the whole budget. I am grateful that you tell me that the problem with UNED is that 8 years ago Mr Javier de Andrés reduced the subsidy. Hey, what about us who put her up with you and these gentlemen two years ago? Why are you making a commitment to breaching an item that is now included in the extended budget? You tell me you are very concerned about UNED, which has worked very hard for UNED. Hey, Mr. Pastor, is your government going to pay UNED for the items on the budget today? Yes or no? This is very easy. Are you going to enforce your law, yes or no? And, Mr. Alvarez, man, I haven't seen the Basque Nationalist Party kick off here, in the rostrum, with this sectarianism and even Sabinian racism for a long time. It says "it's that UNED is Spanish." And the UPV, the University of Deusto and the University of Mondragon. Or what, that UNED doesn't have centers in the Basque Country? But what planet are you landing on? Listen, your party long ago said that, in the end, this thing about racism..., that we go back here to first-rate Basques, second-rate Basques, some private universities can be financed without limits and others public, as we don't like and are sectarians, we don't give you the money that's in the budget. It's his speech, it's his speech. And I didn't come here to talk about the Basque university system, or how it's all funded or anything like it. Look, our proposition is not a motion, it's a non-law proposition. It's very simple. He's got a title, we're asking for the law to be enforced. The one you approved, in which you did not allow us to negotiate a single comma in the budget extension. You brought it in as it is, and by the way, we voted on it as it is and approved it. That's what we're proposing here. What you're seeing, Mr. Pastor... You will be very concerned about UNED, but it has become very clear to us that it is Spanish. He's Spanish, you know? So, since he's Spanish, these gentlemen here, what they have to do is cut. Because, of course, last year's funding was exhausted in itself. I don't know if Sabino Arana's self-exhausted last year. Did she run out of Sabino Arana herself? Or that yes? Ah! That's Basque, that's right! Hey, counselor? Well, that one and all of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u106	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor? He mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Álvarez, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Zatón, listening to you seemed like the UNED in Euskadi is living in a situation, of course, of absolute helplessness, and I think it is quite the opposite. And not only for what the Basque Government is doing, but I would also like to highlight what is also done from outside parliaments, even from municipalities. Without going any further, from which I am a member every year we have dedicated an item to finance UNED. So, that situation so catastrophic that you catalog or try to show, of course, I don't see it that much. Not to mention the budget allocated by the Basque Government annually, EUR 400,000, which has sometimes been extended through amendments. And, Mr. Damborenea, I do care about the Basque university system, I don't know about you... of course, listening to it doesn't seem too much. If you have had the opportunity to read Law 3/2004 of the Basque University System, there you will see that in many aspects we talk about the financing of the university system and our universities. You were talking about universities like UNED, which is a Basque university. Of course, it is a university headquartered in Madrid and with affiliated centers in Euskadi; therefore, that is the main difference. You said that the University of the Basque Country is also Spanish. The University of the Basque Country, I don't know how many venues or centers can have outside our territory. In any case, I would like to see you, Mr Damborenea, fight against yourself, with the same enthusiasm for the financing of the National University at your headquarters in Araba, because it would also reverse everything you pay in tuition at 100% in Euskadi, since today only 40% of the same remains in our Community. And in any case, you, what you propose, which is only – and Mrs Ubera has told you – to benefit from the UNED sub-centre of Vitoria-Gasteiz, this automatically causes discrimination against the students of UNED Euskadi Gipuzcoanos and Vizcaínos, automatically. And the worst part is that you guys insist again this year. In any case, today I may find some ally to carry out this which they did not dare to do in the budgetary procedure there for November, but, of course, the position of Euzko Abertzaleak is that no, and it is clear. In either case, your train just over half a year ago passed. Another train will pass here by November, it will be the 2020 Budgets train. We will then see what stops it makes and what route it has in this Parliament; we will then see what criteria they use to ride on one wagon or another. I, of course, hope that you will be able from the People's Group to ride on the wagon and on the train that looks towards the advancing Euskadi, and not on the one that makes it back. And finally, he was talking about the fact that the groups that support the government are going to vote against the law. No, don't be mistaken. What we are going to do is vote for compliance with the law with all its precepts, so that is why our amendment is born. Read the second additional provision and what it says until the end, to the last point, which I certainly recommend. And little more. Besterik gabe, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u108	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u109	Speaking of surprises, Mr Alvarez, you have not said anything about what I have asked you about the island of Bilbao's private universities. I think it's just... [[Berber]] I will talk about what you consider at the speaking time, unless the president cut me off, if the Basque Nationalist group doesn't care. Returning: 0.003 of what is destined for the University of Deusto is destined for the Basque Government to UNED. We are not asking for EUR 32 million, in this case in the amendments of the People's Party or those that we made in the Finance Committee in the Budgets of 2019. There is a difference between a university that has – if I remember correctly, I have it there, in the seat... – about 8,000 and peak students. How many has UNED? How far does the student go to the Basque Government at UNED and the University of Deusto? You have to do those maths. I think everyone agrees that the ministry is primarily responsible for funding UNED, but I insist again: when we talk about self-government again, what do we want self-government for? Precisely, among other things, so that, for example, the UNED – that university that you have said has three venues here, where, as you have already been reminded, Basques and Basques study – has the best resources, the best facilities, the best capacity to care for students here... And look at the effort that is being asked of the Government in this case with that articulation that is being asked, specifically with UNED, which is what our group is particularly concerned about today, because the justification for that initiative was – and we have focused on it – through the funding of UNED... Look at the economic effort in times of bonanza – which, generally, the great headlines, you are very skilled at propagating – in a year of successful collection of Basque offshore haciendas, 100,000 euros, that is the effort that is being demanded to be fulfilled. I think they have to make you look at the issue of priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u110	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 37; counters, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-05-30.u111	So the original text has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-nine.
