ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u0	Good morning, everyone. Good morning and welcome to the legislature. We'll begin the whole meeting, but before we start the subject list, we'll call the members of Diana Gold Herrera and Ibon San Saturnino Murua. Single point in theme list: "The general discussion of politics, which was planned in the article 43, and 193 of the Chamber's Rule, of June, 1981." 195 of the Parliament's Rule. the thread of the article will begin in conversation with the President's speech. Once the announcement is finished, the meeting stops until 1:30 p.m. So, Mr President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u1	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature. Welcome, congressmen who came as news. "The chief physician, the commander of the people, and the commander of -Reglectors, representatives of the institutions and society, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'd like to begin by confirming the spirit that's been guided by the Eucommy in this modern legislation. I want to remember the opening words in the speech of 2016. These words show what politics we want to make, what government we defend, and what country view we work for. Here are the words of the hour: "The alliance and arrangement will be necessary in this legislation. Euskadi is a plural society, and cooperation is a sign of our culture. I want to confirm my commitment to a future shared project. "Our priority is to increase, and to create more employments, to guarantee basic social policies and public services, to strengthen social and political life, to agree with a new state of Western status after violence. "We have extended our hand to unite forces for Basques, and have presented a strong and thorough program to serve the entire Basque society. I promise I will faithfully obey our order, our program." That's what I said. I observed that conversation and arrangement would be indispensable in the legislature. I said so because Euskadi is a plural society and is a part of our culture. I was committed to promote a future project for everyone. Society is of several kinds, as well as Eucharistic; this variety, besides the abundance of political opportunities, obliges us to defend our conversation, and to constantly seek the agreements. Democracy requires dialogue as method; it has an indispensable tool, if it really becomes effected in the plural societies. The value of the political conversation, if the will for the bargain nourishes it, goes further. By means of the union of the will we cohesion the society, and consequently a greater number of social defenses feel the care and advantage of political action. That's my view as president. I've always had my hand open for cooperation. It's open now, too, for me to solve the problems that concern us in this country. Together with the head of departments, we've designed the policies that make the whole society useful to us. I'm sure you can't deny the effort we've made for co-working and co-working. Our base is to unite the forces of Eusquedi in service. To maintain this spirit is to-day essential, to unite the forces of the institutions, to unite the forces of political parties between public and private occupations, to challenge the future, even in society. The union of forces in the centre is Basque, and our shared project is Euskakia. Neighborhood, growth, keeping the promised word. Keeping that way of thinking, I'll introduce my performance to three parts. I'm going to mention the main initiative that's been developed by my friend, and I'll tell you how complete our program is. In the second place, I will show what are the most important enterprises which we shall perform in the field of human development, in the tolerable growth, in the community, and in the auto-generacy. And in the third, I shall collect the greatest challenges which he has on the horizon of 2030: demographicsocial, neurological and technological. Part one, keep the word given. Euskadi sits on a solid foundation. This is the time for transparency and accountability, to respond to the commitments made to citizens and this Parliament. We're accountable in real time. The website Euskadi.eus received 56 million visits last year, with 223 million pages viewed. We have made public the 6,000 actions that comply with the government program. Euskadi has reached 100 out of 100 points in the international transparency index. The 175 commitments of our program are under way, the 15 strategic plans under implementation, we have adopted 15 bills and five proposals for legislation have been submitted by the parties that support the government; of the 20 projects referred to the House, Parliament has adopted 9 laws; the rest –11 projects – are in process: since 2017, transparency, citizen participation and good governance, organization and functioning of the public sector, access and exercise of the professions of sport; since 2018, cooperatives, income guarantee and social inclusion, and sanctioning power of public administrations; this year, the Basque public employment bills, cult centers, general provisions, conservation of natural heritage and environmental administration. We remain committed to forwarding 28 bills to this House. We are working on such significant pre-projects as contributions; subsidy regime; amendment of the law on equality and elimination of violence against women; amendment of the rural development law; protection of children and adolescents; sustainable mobility; education; updating of the law on sport; comprehensive documentary management; climate change; youth. Step by step we're moving forward, and, frankly, I think the course is right. The axis of Euskon's work is to answer for social priorities, starting from the management of realism and responsibility. In this legislation, we've got budget balances. The deficit is zero. The obituation ratio was 13% of the raw product in 2018. The cause of our accounts is strong and raing. There are two particular decisions which I wish to emphasize: the reform-General, admitted in the principal assemblies of three historical countries, which had been established in January 2018, and which had been established in the Spanish Government in the 2017s, and the agreements which had been concluded in the economic treaty, were to be concluded by the quadratics, and to be able to settle the quapoe for five years. The active management of the attorneys' revenues has been given its fruits at the Council of Public Finance, where they have been admitted by the intervention of the forum and by the intervention of the municipal councils, after accepting the law on the Basque Offices. Because of that steady foundation, we're getting results. We look at the growth prevention of this year, namely 2,3%, and the next year's %2. We see the goal of making 16,000 clean jobs this year, the rate of unemployment down to 10%, and the amount of affiliation for Social Security to go to 9800,000. The rate of unemployment has been visibly lowered between the younger years of 16 and 29 years: It was 29% in 2014, and today it's 15 percent. Our priority is continued by increasing growth and creating opportunities for more quality employment. Step by step, we're on the right track. We're a solvent country. We have established fiscal consolidation with rigorous management of public accounts. This is an asset that offers confidence to investment. Euskadi is our guarantee and we are doing what is necessary to keep it. Euskadi has been our shield during the crisis and is our best platform for the future. The basis of our economic strategy is firm. We have a shared strategy: the 2020 Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Recovery is enabling us to mobilise an investment of EUR 8.8 billion. The Basque system of social protection is solid. The Government has made a continuous effort to promote cohesion and reduce social inequalities. We have increased resources to ensure essential health, education and social protection services. Our priority is social. In 2013, the concepts of social spending were 6,380 million euros. Year-to-year increases have been made. This year we have allocated 7.1 billion. Social expenditure accounted for 62% of the budget in 2013 and this year reached 70%. Expenditure on social protection per inhabitant is five points above the European average. The Gini index, an indicator of inequality, places Euskadi among the most egalitarian territories in Europe. The serious poverty rate in Euskadi remains at 5.1%, below 6% of the European average. We are well aware of the level of uncertainty at which our environment is located. Understanding and assessing social trends is more necessary to establish the strategy. Europe and the world are facing major tensions, protectionist pressure is growing, and demagogic and populist movements are consolidating. Brexit keeps Europe's vision for the future uncertain. The German economy can close this quarter in negative and find itself in recession. It is an important market for Euskadi in the industrial and automotive field. These are the factors that the OECD report stressed yesterday. The scenarios of institutional governance are becoming more and more complex. This situation has a special reflection in the State. Economic, social and territorial tensions are increasing. Electoral repetition is a step backwards. A stability framework has not just been established and the challenges of political and institutional action in the State are not met from a minimally consensual basis. We live in times of great uncertainty, sometimes caused by movements and ways of acting in politics that have no reference in the democratic tradition. Uncertainty accentuated by the lack of awareness of the consequences of a possible economic crisis. If we add to this the lightness with which political action is approached, taking without too much foundation and rigour key decisions that affect the future, our state of alert is maximum. Euskadi is a small country and we are not going to escape the consequences of the actions and tensions that certain populist policies are causing. These actions are aggravated by the ease with which simple slogans and simple false solutions to complex problems spread at lightning speed. All this affects stability in the State and can affect us in Euskadi. Here we know that if we make the relevant political and economic decisions on time, we are more likely to have a lower social cost. I appreciate the importance of commitment and daily work, the ant that cherishes in summer what you will need in winter. Zero deficit, debt in comparative minimums. This is the best shock absorber of the effects of future crises. There is nothing we can do to prevent a global crisis, but we can try to mitigate its effects. We must anticipate solutions and implement them in a collaborative framework. We are a solvent country involved in innovation, with a shared strategic vision and investments that maintain our competitiveness. We have established fiscal consolidation with rigorous management. This is an asset that offers confidence to investment and increases the attractiveness of the Basque economic ecosystem. Our model is based on serious and responsible management. Stability is our best political asset for growth. I understand politics as a vocation to serve society and as an instrument to solve the problems of citizenship, not the other way around. People with political responsibility are the front line in the public service. We must bear in mind that the important thing is to respond to the needs of people, especially those most in need. We must act from seriousness and responsibility, depending on the real possibilities. I understand politics as an instrument to balance the excesses of the market and to seek a fairer and fairer distribution of wealth, a policy of service. I am very concerned about the political situation in the State; it is disheartening what is happening: a new call for general elections with the inability to draw any path of agreement and plunged into partisan strategies, without institutional commitment and without a shared project in the medium term. What is happening in Europe is no less worrying. I reiterate the offer of the "Vision on the future of Europe", presented to the highest European institutional representatives. In any case, the most serious is the global climate and its impact on the economy. The world is in hilvanes. I would like to say to Basque society that we will not have to face uncertainties. I can't do it. I can say that the stability we have in Euskadi is fundamental. We have a healthy economy, with advanced and well-positioned companies in the world. We are a balanced society that guarantees essential services and social protection. Our forecast is that we will continue to grow; somewhat less, but Euskadi will grow and generate employment. In the current context, we cannot take this trend for granted. We can indeed do our utmost to ensure that the conditions are in place for that trend to continue in Euskadi. Our commitment is rigorous economic management, an industrial policy based on innovation and internationalisation. Our aim is to create more and better jobs, to put self-government at the service of modernisation, growth and social cohesion. Our commitment is to preserve political and institutional stability. That's what we're doing: vision, seriousness and commitment. Our model is bearable human development. It's our own pattern, built from the Autogron, that matches the horizon of 2030. The fun works in the same way and in the same direction, with the four-time shakes: human development, enduring growth, co-existence and human rights, and self-gravitation. The first course of activity is human development, our priority is the person. From 4 euros of our budget, 3 health and education and social protection services are designed to re-establish. In July we presented experience in the United Nations of the United Nations of Euskita Bonues. These Bonus are to finance the social and environmental claims of 2030 and we've got 1,100 million dollars in the last two years. Cheers. The public health system is a matter of reference, which society esteems, and which is the chief point in the state. In this form we have taken upon ourselves the problems derived from the management of the public employment in 2016-2010, which have already been investigated. We're the first that's interested in completely explaining the facts. Our commitment is to get to the end, until the process ends with all the ranks of equality. We've played with transparency, along with justice, even with its demands. Now, let the law do its work, and let us judge in a just way the people who resigned. We've briefed the intermediary and the legislature, shared the improvement suggestions, made self-critics and accepted the responsibility. The health department is moving on. We have agreed to a new model for the offers of public employment, which will be more assured. We've accepted the social strategy of social attention, the Onkology Plan, and the Onkological, as well as the network of Osarism. We've proposed 35 new measures to reinforce the first-class attention service, and we've made a public call for 215 new jobs. We have new health structures: The hospital in Urdurlize and the Eibarian hospital, the University Hospital and the Santiago Hospital, the first-class centers in Amerion, Lezon, Oron, and the Gascheese Lakes in the neighborhood. Euskadin's savings are 1.730 euros per inhabitant: He's above the average in Europe. The public health of Euscal is a reference to Europe, a guarantee of the quality of the people's life. He'll still be like that. Education. We've confirmed the basics of the organizational agreement, previously approved by the Basque School Council. This must be the axis of the educational law. These are the most common features of our system. These are 100 million euros, considering all the educational stages. We've agreed to the Economy Law and the Basque University System Plan, with the funding of $1.411 million euros, and the university and the first strategy of the Company. We've put down the model of your training in college college college college colleges, 25 headlines. We've finished the understructure Plan. It's a $300 million investment in 195 activities. We have increased child service for those who have incomes below 18,000 euros. It's a priority education. It's in the brain of the budget. I do not deny that the state of education is troubling. Our priority is to understand education as a fundamental public service, and to guarantee the right to an universal and quality education. We believe in the Basque Education System. The system which is composed of public educations, of a balance between the public network and the compact. The pattern works. We need to encourage the example interview and find consent, look at improvement, always, for students and family service' quality. Some of the most outstanding actions in housing: Plan Director 2020, which materializes the subjective right to housing; comprehensive regeneration projects in Txomin Enea, Txonta, Zorrozaurre, Sestao, Otxarkoaga and Basaundi, Lasarte; Gaztelagun programme and reserves of social housing quota and accommodation facilities for youth; rehabilitation of housing with criteria of energy efficiency and accessibility. Equality. We are a pioneering community in commitment to equality. Still, we are aware of the way ahead. The aim is to strengthen this commitment so that we can achieve a society free from violence against women. Every act of violence is a wake-up call to society as a whole. Practically every day we suffer the reality of violence against women in its many manifestations. The Government assumes the responsibility of continuing to work for equality, in order to avoid this intolerable reality from the root. This year we will adopt the amendment to the current Equality Act, which incorporates a specific chapter to eradicate this violence that we will strengthen. We need to keep working as a team, Auzolana. In 2018, we approved the Strategy and Operational Plan to narrow the wage gap. It collects 60 measures and commits a budget of 280 million euros over the last two years. Some initiatives include: co-responsible reconciliation for equal sharing of household and care tasks; 18-week equal and non-transferable parental leave in the public administration; aid to companies to implement equality plans; business inspection plan to combat wage discrimination; working group at the Social Dialogue Bureau to reduce the wage gap. Euskadi maintains the objective of being among the most advanced European countries on equal terms. Family, childhood and youth. In 2018 we approved the Interinstitutional Pact. Highlighted initiatives: 33% increase in support for families by two years for children; extension of support for the birth of the second child to three years. Council programme 30, on aid for reconciliation; Youth Employment Plan, with the commitment to offer a first job experience to 20,000 young people. Solidarity with the elderly and the most disadvantaged: the Third Social Sector Strategy and the Inter-institutional Agreement for the Homeless. Some of the initiatives: income guarantee income for persons receiving pensions, to ensure a vital minimum in cases of risk of vulnerability. Additional funding of 14 million per year for the Social Services Portfolio Development Fund. Compensation for the pharmaceutical copayo. Cultural and euscipation. Our horizon is the Basque City of Culture with a shared strategy: culture and creative industry; Euscara's Age; Cultural 2022 Plana, which has the following initiative: Create a digital Basque library and encourage the visual sector and the euscal system of art with the government of Navarre and the Public Office of the Northern Basques to boost normalization of the use of Euska. Some of the teams: To enlarge the Museum of Fine Arts of Union and to invest in Anos, Ipaurus, and shallow Mountains; to encourage the external projection of our culture by a certain Institute, and to give the value of Tabakler as a space of cremation, and to compare the titles which verify the knowledge of the Basque Art with the European scope of reference; to support in the digital environment, together with the founding of euccanists, to arrange the Eultsia. Actions at work, justice and security: decree of free legal aid; plan of inspection of the Department of Labour to avoid fraud in recruitment; first decree for the institutionalization of the Bureau of Social Dialogue; law of the Basque Police; call of 2,550 new places in six years for the renovation of the Ertzaintza; management of three unified calls for the formation of 700 local police; new space "Hemen Gaude" in the museum of Arkaute, in memory of the and theertzains killed by ETA. Second axis of action: sustainable growth. First, the job. The priority challenge of the legislature is to reduce the unemployment rate by less than 10% by 2020 (at this time it is in the 9.6%. Three years ago there were 144,000 people registered in Lanbide; today there are less than 116,000. We had 904,000 people affiliated with Social Security; today they exceed 956,000. We have given a boost to entrepreneurship, training for employment, transition from education to work and dual training, scholarship programme and Global Training. We have developed local and regional employment plans, special employment centres and renewal programmes. We're going to exceed the 13,500 public employment positions we've committed. We are proceeding gradually to the generational relief of the Administration and to consolidate public health, education, security or social protection services. Step by step we're moving forward. The competitiveness of the Basque economy is set out in Strategy 4i (industry, innovation, investment and internationalisation). Industry and innovation: Basque Industry Plan 4.0, which commits 1,225 million euros. We developed the intelligent specialization RIS3 Euskadi. New infrastructures: Basque Cybersecurity Centre; extension of the Technology Park of the Left Margen; Advanced Aeronautics Manufacturing Centre and second phase of Windbox wind farm. New facilities of the Research Centre Achucarro, Biocruces and Bioaraba; broadband in all industrial and rural areas of Euskadi. Reactivation support programmes: shock plan for areas of preference; Renovation Plan Industry, Vehicles, Machinery and Industrial Polygons; economic reactivation of the tertiary sector (Strategic Tourism, Trade and Consumption Plan); Kontsumobide 2020 Strategy and new law on the Statute of Consumers and Users of Euskadi; regulatory decree on houses and rooms for tourist use; promotion of the internationalization of tourism and programmes of the department for sustainable and quality tourism. Innovation: annual growth in excess of 5% of public budgets. We have brought together the 16 technology and cooperative research centres with more than 3,500 researchers. Euskadi Basque Country internationalization: Framework strategy approved in collaboration with outlaws, chambers of commerce and companies; Basque Internationalization Agency and new offices of SPRI in Milan, London and New York. The results are positive. Over the past three years, 900 small and medium-sized enterprises have received support for their expansion abroad. Exports and arrivals of visitors continue to grow. The Etxepare Institute deploys its cultural work and Basque Development Cooperation is an international reference. Investment. Public investment is growing; this year, 14%. It has been made possible by the consolidation of last year's budget and the development of a sustainable investment programme that does not fit in the expenditure rule. It allows us to address projects to modernize our infrastructures: logistics centres in Lezo and Arasur; development of the metro and tram network; high-speed network and agreement with the Spanish Government for access to capitals. Euskadi will continue to bet on social and territorial development, including rural development, with actions also in smaller municipalities. Our goal is to ensure the development of the entire territory at the same speed. New financing instrument policy to strengthen the competitiveness, growth and roots of companies: investments of up to €6 million from funds managed by risk capital in the Basque Country; public-private fund to consolidate business projects, open with €100 million and expandable to €250; public fund Finkatuz, an instrument of participation in large companies, with a long-term vocation. The aim is to contribute to the root and that these companies exercise their tractor character over the productive fabric. We have a commitment of EUR 100 million for this Parliament. Talent and entrepreneurship: Plan Bind 4.0, of collaboration between companies and entrepreneurs; Ikerbasque has strengthened its role of capturing and retaining talent, has consolidated the group of 240 people with a capture of 28 million euros the previous year. Environment and sustainability: Environment Strategy for Sustainable Development 2002-2020 and Klima 2050. The Basque Government has ratified the accession to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change before the United Nations. On 30 July, the Governing Council adopted an institutional declaration of climate emergency, reaffirming the conviction to lead this challenge and turn it into a lever for transformation towards a more competitive and climate neutral economy; launching in Arasur of the largest photovoltaic power plant in the State; drafting the Renewables Plan, which sets out a map for the various modalities, including wind energy. Improving sustainable mobility: Plan Director of Sustainable Transport 2030; Ibil Electrolinera programme in Euskadi; smart electric bus in Gasteiz and Donostia. We have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 21% compared to 2005. Our energy efficiency index is among the highest in Europe. So far the main initiative of the government on the first two axiss (human development and bearable growth). A third axis, human rights and co-operation. It has been the most important boundary of our past, and has permanently broken down from one side of May 3, 2018, without any condition. For 2020, we're fulfilling the plan of Human Rights and Coat. We have accepted the change of law of police abuses, and the time to present petitions to the victims for confession and observation is open. The most important coalitions: To penetrate into the police with the victims, the Council of Terrorism in the victims of the Union, and the European day of the Times; and the report on the wrongs inflicted by the councilmen who had been threatened and harassed by the members of the Council; the testimony of the educated victims in the program 17,000 students have heard directly; and in the steps given in the policy of the French Governments of Spain, the first report of the establishments of human rights of human rights in the franchise. A new diary of partnership and human rights: The Share proposal, the Contence Plana, to pay attention to the migrators who are passing through the pass, we opened the back refuge, the first hotels at Oñatin, Tolsala, and Irun. Commercial experience pilot with ACNURs, the Spanish government, the Cáritas and the jesuits, together with the cosmetic euscal community, the program for support and the work plan of the ADOS Counsellal Committee, a guide for development, with the view of human rights and the prospect of patient development. I do it myself in this legislature because the policy of peace and fellowship is still necessary to the idea, for only a decade has passed since this people suffered from terrorism. It is of extraordinary importance to show that terrorism was unjust, a bad attack against society and human rights. There is no place in Eukadin for the praise of this time, much less for the confession of those who had suffered so much. The memory of the victims remains a priority. We seek to extend the culture of peace and fellowship, based on an ethical commitment. Fourth axis, self-taught. I'm trying to help you get more and more self-portraits. Activities: Publicization of the Law of the Economy, and the Five Years' Law of the Kupo; transfer meeting with the Misto Committee, two railway lines, and the parts of the AP-1 and the AP-68 highways. Today, the whole network is under Basque jurisdiction. The Spanish Government accepted for the first time on January 22nd, the calendar and plan to transfer the jurisdictions which are held in Guernica in the State of Guernica. We're going forward, step by step. So far, the assessment of the degree of compliance with the government program. I reiterate the spirit: hand stretched out to join forces in the service of Euskadi. I have made a balance sheet, a brief balance sheet, of the road travelled. Valuing what has been achieved is compatible with an attitude of maximum self-requirement with the outstanding task. No complacency. Self-requirement is the criterion of our Government's action. This attitude is more necessary than ever, because we are aware of the difficulties facing society. We are aware of the problems of precarious employment, especially among young people. I am referring to wage levels, temporaryity or part-time employment; the difficulties of businesses and sectors of activity that we follow very closely; the still high levels of poverty, which particularly affect older people and exacerbate problems such as loneliness; the difficulties of social and labour integration of migrants; the emission of greenhouse gases; the difficulties in investing in innovation by many small and medium-sized enterprises; the need to strengthen primary care; to reverse low birth rates; the territorial gap in regions that have suffered most cruelly from the economic crisis; the scourge of macho violence, with which we have to end. These are problems that we know closely. They will continue to focus our attention. We have made progress, but we have a long way to go. Self-requirement. Our commitment, binding and meaningful, is to work tirelessly to respond to the needs of society. Today, I am advancing some of the initiatives that the Government is going to push in the coming months. The second section, then, is the main initiative to develop. First of all, the enterprises of human development: a law project to strengthen the equality of women and men, and destroy violence against women. The law of equality was a point of inflammation in proportion to the principle of equality. He gave occasion to establish and develop a strong legal camp, to provide them by means, and to give them more political weight. In the year 2015 the United Nations granted a reward for the execution and establishment of this law. This reward was a confession to all the persons, groups, and private institutions, who had been encouraged by this humiliating law. It's the model of the neighborhood. There's a lot to do, but it's on the way to get eucalypity. The change of law seeks to improve the institutional response, and to adapt it to the demands of the Word of Istanbul. He puts in an Intersecrational point of view, to ensure that every victim has a right to an integrated attention, to receive a free and quality, especially the women who are in the weakest condition. The new law is to strengthen human resources and physical resources in order to build a society without machistatic violence to women. Although there have been some political attitudes which question the policy of equality in our circle in an explicit manner, this people plainly insists that a society free from violence towards women is desirous of equalizing society. The most important methods of education and health; A pre-school bill, the basis for the future euplacal system, the development of technological infrastructure and digitalization Plan. The high school of art and design was KREA, Betoñun: SYRILING FOR SYRISHING SYRISHING SUGHS, 2023 the Under-Strugal Plan, 260 contusions, 318 million euros, investments increasing in health centres and the University Hospital in Abak. Cultural and euccany: A new digital Euskadian library; increasing the Museum of Fine Arts in Bilbo, a program to protect the impassetrical domain, the help to learn eucatures (which is the objective of 2020 to achieve between B2th grade), a moving program for physical activity, a mollation program with Basque Team to help the high-level sports, and help the women's sporting sport. Housing, justice and social protection: intermediation programme to regulate and moderate the price of private rental of housing; comprehensive plan for courts of violence against women; new family meeting point in Irún; support strategy for non-professional caregivers; digitisation of 25% of the BetiON teleassistance service; decree of aid for the reconciliation of family and work life regulating 16-week paternity permits in the private sector. Basque social pact for migration. The aim is to promote a country's commitment to the migration challenge. A pact defining projects in the areas of regularized immigration, asylum-seekers and refugees, migrants in vulnerable or unregulated situations, unaccompanied foreign minors and young people, preventive intervention and a culture of coexistence. We are a country that was an emigrant and has been welcomed. We must now be a welcoming country, out of solidarity, out of human rights and out of necessity. We are an open country that closes the doors to racism and xenophobia. This pact involves a commitment of co-responsibility, firmness and unity. Second: sustainable growth. Reducing unemployment below 10% is an incentive to achieve more and better jobs. It is the priority of the Government and the country. The challenge is to improve our ecosystem and build a new economic future, to support the company, to gain competitiveness in the industry, to step into the global market, to innovate. New Lanbide model, in collaboration with the different agents. Communication infrastructure: high-speed train and underground access to capitals; Riberas de Loiola exchanger; Deba station, Amorebieta; University and Salburua tram in Gasteiz; multimodal platform of Jundiz and drive to the railway highway. Infrastructures for competitiveness: new BERC installations of materials on the scientific campus of Leioa; digitisation of Lanbide and new offices in Vitoria-Gasteiz; programme of attraction of technological-industrial talent; aquaculture polygons of Mendexa and Basordas; transfer of land of Lemoiz for new economic uses. Third, coexistence and human rights: achieving a global critical reflection on the past that, including explicitly the violence of ETA, is shared by all political forces; expanding constructive and participatory spaces of consensus on memory, as well as on the recognition and reparation of victims; achieving consensus on prison policy and reintegration adapted to new political time and adjusted to the humanitarian principle; Historical Memory Act (after a process of evaluation of what has been done to date, we have developed a draft that we will share with parliamentary groups this month); United Nations pilot project for the prevention of violent radicalization; shared work line to expand development cooperation; Share proposal for the reception and integration of refugees and migrants. Migration is not a short-term phenomenon, it is a structural reality that requires European consultation. The founding values and ideals of the European project are at stake. Europe has an objective need for the contribution of immigrants. The response to the migration challenge is an imperative of solidarity, an imperative of progress and prosperity. The Share proposal suggests agreeing on a mechanism for sharing responsibility. After the support received at the Vatican, we will continue to promote this proposal in Euskadi with other communities, the Spanish Government, the European and international institutions. The spirit of this proposal is "We ask and offer a compromise". Number four, self-engine. First of all, we have to make a statement of the way we've done it. The 25th of October is a landmark that allows people to institutionalize, and to appreciate the construction of the Basques. The auto-generacy is a historical property, the main key to the partnership of the Basques, of identity, of well-being and external projections. The motorcar opened its doors to the Basque organization, step by step. We have acquired the highest degree of well-being, of life, and of organization in our history. It is absolutely necessary that we proceed. For this purpose we must establish some grounds with the greatest possible consent. Ignorants are of no use. The union of the unequals makes life more rich. The confession of self-consciousness also implies that it remains complete. In January, the Spanish Government accepted a calendar and a plan to transfer the transfers that were to be made. He is a fool, who confesses for the first time what he owes. To fill the entire state of Guernica is a purpose of our program, and a vast protection of the institutions. It is the will of the majority of this legislature to demand that the State should be complete. There's no excuse that after 40 years we're going through Euskakia and the state without fulfilling the promised jurisdictional scope. It's a self-resisting confession of Euscal's self-requestionation and improvement. It is our duty to agree and speak a way which will give way to the ends of the people. I'd like to share three goals and show you a historical opportunity. Three targets: To guarantee the pattern of well-being, cohesion and social justice by default; to increase the catalog of powers, and to increase the stock of self-determination; and to clear the capacity of determining, and to secure a efficient biasing system. To begin with these goals, it is necessary to confess the national character of the Basques and the peculiarity of our example, and to acknowledge the different feelings of their union and to penetrate into multiplicity. We have a tool that has shown how effective it is and what we now have as opportunity. Economy is a model that has been rooted in history, it has all legitimity and legality. He's got support from 2002 to the European organizations. It is a special and compact system, a model of adaptation to answer new challenges. The economy treaty has acquired a vast protection from all public institutions, political parties, associations, and institutions of civil society. By this example, we now have a chance to encourage political agreement. The Economic Concert has been shown to be a system of effective bilateral relations between Euskadi and the State. It offers a historical, unique, legitimate, legal, bilateral and effective model for its extension to the field of political relations. Political concert. We have the opportunity to work out an agreement based on the model of political concert. National agreement in Euskadi and bilateral guarantee agreement with the State. A new political future based on mutual trust, enabling the potential of self-government to be expanded, with a mechanism for resolving conflicts based on bilaterality. We have the opportunity to strengthen self-government and advance in its uniqueness through its adaptation to European reality, to strengthen the institutional construction of Euskadi and to establish the original spirit of pact and bilaterality with guarantees. The opportunity to promote a new model of State, recognizing its plurinational reality and the unique character of Basque self-government. The opportunity, too, to participate in the construction of a new Europe, which recognizes the uniqueness of its own constitutional regions and national realities. In the context of the self-government presentation, the committee of experts appointed by the five parliamentary groups held its first meeting, its first meeting, on 26 October. They have developed their work with full dedication and dedication, bringing their best knowledge and experience to the service of a top-level goal for our country. The commitment is praiseworthy; the attitude, constructive; the illusion, shared. On November 30 they will present the fruit of their work. The updating of self-government deserves the efforts of the five parliamentary groups. After months of work, the will and determination to make agreements continue to prevail. This process is an example of a political culture, a counterpoint to the reality that we live in the State: a proactive attitude towards the pure inertia that tries to limit the potential of Basque self-government; assumption of plural reality against the uniformizing trend in the model of State; multilateral dialogue against unilateral impositions on genesis and development of the territorial conflict between Catalonia and the State; orientation to the pact against the attitudes of blockade, veto or imposition. Proactive attitude, plurality, multilateral dialogue, pact. They define a vision and a model of policy making that we should encourage in Euskadi. They represent the essence of our political and institutional commitment to society. For both the content and the way in which it carries out its work, I express my sincere appreciation for the work of the people who are members of the so-called expert group. I also share a very widespread hope among Basque society when I affirm the desire that this work should allow us to widen, deepen and broaden the internal agreement to advance in our own self-government. I believe in the ability of dynamic self-government to meet our future challenge. This capacity must be applied on the day-to-day basis of the institutional relationship, a dialogue with full functions on the part of the Spanish Government is essential. A fundamental objective of our Government is to defend what belongs to Euskadi and to enable us to make progress on the Basque agenda. This agenda includes realising the outstanding transfers, boosting investments to advance high speed and their underground arrival in the capitals, supporting industry and energy transformation, ensuring the future of the automotive sector, betting on Basque airports. The Basque agenda includes issues relevant to the day-to-day Euskadi and our future. These are issues that cannot continue to be covered by instability in the State, by the permanent electoral climate or by the absence of a dialogue in the Spanish Government. The new electoral scenario again slows down the effective launch of the Spanish Government. It does not facilitate the climate of trust and work that requires the response to the needs of the Basque agenda. Electoral repetition is a step backwards. So far, the second half. I've introduced the main initiative that we're going to develop in the next few months. PART III: The future view on the horizon of 2030. It's easier for you to look into the future. We closely examine the principal propensities and global modifications which affect the conditions of the welfare of the community. Our decision is to continue to guarantee the fundamental public services, social protection, and economy, and the policies for creating employment. We have always known how to advance; it is an eternal formula: a share of effort and community. In July, together with three principal delegates, we discussed the prospect of future challenges and shared projects. The new council of the eunuchs was formed yesterday, and we shall make a meeting with the representatives of the townships, and strengthen the co-worker which is giving fruit. For this month Gasteiz has received the nomination of Global Green City, a statement that is granted to cover the United Nations. Stosy has received the reward of patience and innovation from the organization of the World of Tourism. Bilbo received last year the nomination of the best capital in Europe. These projects are the result of solidarity, they acknowledge the excellence of our capitals, and are a spur to the international projection of the Basque Basque Country. Euskadi Basque Country advances by pooling forces, betting on collaboration, public-private consultation and the participation of society. Euskadi is our common good. This improvement objective is reflected in the preliminary draft Budgets 2020 that we will adopt next month. A proposal drawn up for the first time from the perspective of equality between women and men. In view of their negotiation, we are aware of the need to facilitate the groups in this House. 10 budget priorities: support for families and children; innovation programmes, especially related to energy transition and climate change; areas of preference for economic and social recovery; support for quality youth employment, long-term unemployed people and strengthening labour inspection plans to eliminate fraud; effective equality of women and men, specific plans against the wage gap and prevention of violence against women; women's access to industry and science and technology studies; development cooperation, and labour and social integration of migrants; improvement of primary health care; funds to support the productive fabric, competitiveness, talent attraction and roots of Basque enterprises; entrepreneurship and dual training. This is the priority framework for a 2020 budget that will focus on equality, social cohesion, economic recovery and quality employment. I finish this section with a look at the 2030 horizon. Euskadi's course is set. It will be necessary to respond effectively to the triple transformation in the global scenario: demographic-social, energy-ecological and technology-digital. First, demographic-social transformation. This transformation has a global sign and is occurring due to the decline of birth, the delay in the age of motherhood and the increase in life expectancy. The demographic decline is a major and declared problem in Europe. In Euskadi, in the five-year period 2012-2017, the number of births was 7.8 per 1,000 inhabitants, the second lowest rate in the European Union. The importance of this issue for the future of Euskadi is not a novelty. Our programme makes explicit the intention to promote an inter-agency strategy for demographic change and the rejuvenation of Basque society through policies to support families and children. This was one of the four country challenges raised in the investment debate. Over these years we have acted. The IV Inter-Agency Family Support Plan includes a range of 35 actions. With regard to parental leave, we have taken a pioneering and convergence position with the most advanced policies of the European Union. We've progressed step by step. Now we must reinforce the answer. Thus, we have made the following commitment: to develop the 2030 Strategy on Demographics, which, in addition to the initiatives under way, incorporates a battery of new tractor actions. To this end, an interdepartmental working group will be set up. It will develop the following lines of action: to advance the implementation of measures to promote co-responsibility in care tasks; to progressively increase investment in families in relation to our gross domestic product; to improve birth support by means of economic benefits and tax advantages; a housing plan specially designed for young people; to expand the provision of children's schools in collaboration with municipalities, advancing early schooling between zero and two years; to socialize the contribution of migration and the need for means of residence permits, work, professional qualification and support for integration; a social awareness plan to promote co-responsibility, personal and family efforts, and commitment to future generations. In the medium term, demographic change breaks the basic balance of a cohesive society project. Its shudder is of great depth and strategic reach. Family and birth support policies, conciliation aid, investment in child education, quality youth employment or access to housing will become a clear priority on the budgetary agenda for the next decade. Secondly, energy-ecological transformation. Over the past few decades, society has become increasingly aware of the environmental degradation caused, as a result, by activities aimed at ensuring our development and well-being. In the face of this reality we can react with different attitudes: deny, alarm or engage. We have taken the attitude of taking action, facing the problems with the conviction that they are an opportunity, a challenge for innovation and economic growth, as well as a social and political imperative. The debate is not ecology versus economy. The goal is sustainable development. We face an enormous scientific, technological, social, economic and political challenge. The progressive reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a country target. We remain determined to move towards a carbon-neutral economy by 2050. This commitment will involve the achievement of intermediate targets in 2025 and 2030 for greenhouse gas reduction. The change in the productive model and the energy transition present a great opportunity for economic activity and employment. We will give priority to specific actions: generation of electricity with renewable sources; promotion of electric mobility and electrification of the transport sector; rehabilitation of buildings; transformation of industrial fabric with the incorporation of new products based on a responsible and sustainable consumption model; improvement of the energy efficiency of production processes in industry; repair and reuse of materials or machinery; extension of industrial ecology and the circular economy; promotion of forest bioeconomy from renewable biological resources, especially forests; transformation of agricultural activity; support for the transition in the automotive sector, basic for the Basque industry; awareness and social awareness in favour of the environment. The nature of our commitment to the ecological transformation for a tolerable Euscade is to leave a better planet to future generations. It's going to be the head of that EukMU process, working with public institutions and co-working with financial and social operators. The mythical transition is an opportunity to advance on the model of the bearable human development that unites sensibility and progress. Third, technological transformation. Digital technology integration will affect social life and economy. The extension of new technology is closely related to the prospect of generations. In the artificial intelligence, in the expansion of the internet, the progress of 5G connections or of cybersecurity will affect all the sectors: energy, transport, industry, health, nourishment, telecommunications, or financial services. This influence will require general governors and demands both in European Union and in the 2030 Age of the United Nations. I'm sure the funk will continue to be in charge of a digital communication with the Administration and the citizen, in the line of a "Euskdi Smart Land." The key is to take over this digital culture, to be ready to anticipate and to use the benefits of digitalization, to serve the opportunity to create wealth and employment. To face this technology transformation, we have taken the commitment to innovation as the key to our future. On this side, we're making a new plan for science, technology, and innovation for 2030. We're going to push an intelligent Basque specialization. We will endeavour to transfer it to intelligent industry, to pure energy, and to personal health. We're going to push the technology of companies into four optional areas: wholesome food, patient cities, change of climate, culture and creative industry. This transformation implies a process of adaptation and transition of our companies, especially small and medium-sized ones. We need companies to seek alliances, to grow in size and dimension, to face the challenges of competitiveness and internationalisation from cooperation, not from competition. Companies with a new way of understanding the relationships between the people who integrate them. More inclusive and participatory companies rooted in our country that better respond to the demands of global competition. Fostering participation and ownership in a company understood as a common project is also an investment in competitiveness. Our determination is to encourage this new inclusive and participatory business model with the unanimous support of all groups in this House. The triple demographic-social, energy-ecological and technology-digital transformation is an opportunity. Euskadi is prepared to face this global transformation. We have a framework defined by the 2030 Agenda and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, with a specific focus on the Government agenda. We have an institutional and social model of collaboration. We defend the mission of continuing to build a Euskadi together at the forefront of Europe's most advanced countries. The course is right, and with the highest self-requirement we will continue to progress step by step. To move forward thanks to the political and institutional agreements that we are able to reach. Agreements that strengthen stability that is proving to be positive in the service of economic growth and the generation of higher quality employment opportunities. I conclude by reiterating our priority: to preserve political stability and government action. We are aware of the composition of this Parliament. I will not subject Euskadi to the political tension we are experiencing in Spain. In recent years, Basque politics has been able to create a firewall in the face of the permanent instability of our environment. Political dialogue has been maintained here. Among the parties that support the Government, I thank them for their support and confidence. The Government, from the point of view of its own provisions, has joined forces to implement its programme by acting with the utmost loyalty. Dialogue with the three opposition groups has also been preserved. Despite all that is said, agreements have been reached here. I quote, just by way of example, the Local or Municipal Institutions Act, the Police Act, the Energy Sustainability Act, the three supplementary laws to the Budget adopted this year to ensure compliance with all commitments. Agreements with EH Bildu, with Elkarrekin Podemos, with the People's Party. The Basque Government's hand is still stretched out. Agreements have been reached, institutions have been guaranteed governance, progress has been made in the implementation of the Government programme. This is the priority. Political stability for the country and the action of the institutions. Dialogue with will to agree. I will do everything in my power to maintain commitment and responsibility to a useful policy in Euskadi. We have a country project that we're building together. We have the initiatives that Euskadi needs to face the future. We will continue to implement the government agenda. An agenda based, from the first day, on clear pillars: generating economic activity and employment, ensuring essential public services for quality of life and social balance, prioritizing Euskadi's investments in modernization and future development, advancing together and social justice, updating the potential of Basque self-government. On this basis of stability, governability and future we are prepared to face the great transformations of our time and continue to advance in the Basque Country we want: a competitive country, capable of generating wealth and employment in a more open and global scenario: an integrated country, capable of ensuring the development of all people, establishing equality and social balance; a modern country, articulated territorially and openly, capable of building and deciding its own future in a global world. Euskadi is a country with solid roots and ambition to continue growing step by step. To achieve this is possible from the essence of politics: dialogue, agreement and collaboration. I believe in politics exercised with vision, seriousness and commitment. We have a model and a way of doing politics: Auzolana, collaboration in the service of the common good. Euskadi is our common good. From Euskaca we have a chance to continue to increase a step step by step, and it is possible that politics should have its own interview, agreement, and alliance. I believe in the policy that combines views, honesty, and commitment. We have a model for politics: a countrywork, a partnership for everyone's sake. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. The Union is cut off until two-thirty in the afternoon. It was ten o'clock in the morning and forty-five. At two o'clock in the afternoon, and at thirty-one o'clock the meeting resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u3	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. We're going to the teams' turn. So, Mr. Alonso, who is the spokesman of the Basque Group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I voted in favour. Mr. Lehendakari, times of crisis. I confess that you have left me somewhat concerned about this morning's intervention. I have also seen him unillusioned, as resigned to the duty to read monotonously the retaliatory of plans and actions that have been outlined to him by the heads of negotiation and the heads of departments. I thank you – I believe on behalf of all – for the shortness of your time. It could have been much worse, but you will understand that since I do not have the obligation to make those references, I will focus on the political core of what you have said, or what I have understood you have said, and I will disregard other issues which are very important, but which seem rather administrative in nature. The thing, Mr. lehendakari, is not for much joy. You have announced two new possible crises, I suppose avoidable: one economic and one institutional crisis. It has manifested its inability or at least the difficulty to solve two other crises of no less silence: the demographic crisis that we have, the environmental problems, and, above all, it has escaped the bulge, with constant reproach to all others, of its responsibility and that of its party in the political crisis that Spain is experiencing. We started with the latter. I must remind you that it was you who, with your support in the motion of unlikely censorship and by joining your votes with all those demagogues and populists who now deplore, opened this stage of uncertainty in national politics. They thought it was good for them to turn the river around, but time shows that they have achieved no more fish than a few kilometres of motorway and that, on the other hand, they have managed to block politics in the Basque Country as well. Governance has become a toy that can be broken, which is used to dynamite bridges or to trade without blush with state agencies. Everyone here is already on a permanent campaign, but Pedro Sánchez believes he takes advantage of us because he started his election campaign the same day the polls were closed. The rest has been a simulation not exempt from chalaneum and adorned with much arrogance and little sense of duty. This is what there is, Mr. Lehendakari. You and the PNV were most interested in a government with Podemos. It draws attention to the fact that their bet was agreement with a party whose economic project can be very negative for growth and sustainability in our public policies. Did they really think it was the best government for Spain? Did they think that wouldn't have an influence on the Basque oasis? Or is it that the only influence they cared about was that which their party could have in that possible government? In spite of everything, the coalition with Podemos has failed and their nervousness is giving them away. It's normal, because they've barely been called or written. In extremities It is clear that trusting the weakest Government in history had its risks. Well, what have you achieved in return, Mr. Lehendakari? Nothing. Not even the AVE. The AVE is delayed again; you had it signed, the investments were advancing... Therefore, as I have already told you on numerous occasions, it is not that the business has been bad for the PNV, the problem is that the business is being very bad for all Basques. How will it be that you yourself this morning recognized that the most important agreements were those that you had signed with the PP: the renewal of the Economic Concert and the Fiscal Pact that opened the door to the Budgets in a climate of stability. Today this debate is presented with the Extended Budgets and with a legislative output that is summarized in seven adopted laws of a calendar of 28; the majority approved, by the way, with the favorable vote of the People's Party. The worst is not the squalid result, but the indefinacy that governs his way of doing politics, which is not known if he seeks to please all or displease them equally. To this is added an attitude of permanent pride and political ensimism that has led them to think that they could not negotiate the laws, as if the opposition groups had an unconditional adherence to their policies, as if they enjoyed an absolute majority that would allow us to apply a roller. You've got a year ahead of you, if you run out of Parliament. He hasn't been very encouraged by that this morning. You have recently recognized that this, moreover, did not depend on you as much as on external factors. I understand, given the background, that passing 20 laws in one year is an impossible feat for you; not because of others, consider the Law of Contributions. You can't even agree with each other. They act as if they were enough to be, to make them rule, to contrast with a government of Spain drifting for more than a year, as if it were enough to be the nuts in the country of the blind. His party has a great responsibility for what is happening, but the consequences are borne by the general interest of the Basques and the Spanish as a whole. The thing, Mr Lehendakari, is that everything is likely to get worse, and that is what caused me most concern this morning. Today it has announced that next November 30th the committee of experts will light up the articulated text of the new Basque status. They have that date. And he's had the nerve to talk about consensus between different and even shared illusion: so, of that, nothing. It is not appropriate to confuse good manners with a purported adherence to their plans. This invention arose from a pact between you – those of the PNV– and EH Bildu, which, by the way, today has preferred not to lie, whose fundamental objective was to liquidated national sovereignty and constitutional unity and proclaim self-determination. Then, for months, they have dizzyed the loss in that committee of experts by extending deadlines, subjecting to discussion generalities that always eluded the core of the issue. Now, at last, your commissioner, who is also an active political expert in the Congress of Deputies, puts forward that proposal to which you have referred and which you call a political concert. I will tell you straight away: that proposal, in the terms we have known it, overflows with the Constitution. It is unacceptable disloyalty. If approved, it will be rejected by the Courts, as has already happened with the "Ibarretxe plan", and can lead to a conflict with the State and a division of Basque society itself with unpredictable effects. You can't ignore it. They know it perfectly well, and it is not appropriate for them to play the trick with something as sensitive as our frameworks of coexistence and the rule of law. On this occasion, it also spells out the first additional provision of the Constitution, which they manipulate in a twisting manner. They dare to deprive their legitimate holders of historical rights, which are the outlying territories (i.e., Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa), and to attribute them to the Basque people. It is the biggest attack that has suffered forality since Franco suppressed the economic concerts of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. The claim to attribute to the Basque people the ownership of historical rights is unconstitutional. I say this more clearly: the Basque people who gave rise to the Basque Autonomous Community do not have or have ever had historical rights. But, at the same time, using historical rights to destroy one's own constitutional unity and national sovereignty leads to a conflict that much resembles that of Catalonia, Mr Urkullu. The historical rights of the Basque territories have never been that and cannot be that. Rather, they are recognition of national sovereignty, a capacity for self-government that you cannot trample on in the name of the construction of a Basque nation, centralized, uniforming and seizing of power beyond the laws themselves. We have said so in that committee. We have announced our refusal to participate in the drafting of such a rule. We have presented our legal warning, but I would like to ask you very strongly: Mr Urkullu, do not take that step. Do not finish your term with an unconstitutional proposal that leads to a train crash. We will never accept his theory that political will, which calls it a democratic principle, is above the law, which is the principle of legality. That new status that announces liquidates the Statute of Gernika, the unity of Spain and dynamite our foral system in favor of the construction of a great Basque nation. His sovereignist dystopia has more to do with an attempt to strengthen his power than with anything else. It is an irresponsibility, Mr Urkullu, to play with a plan that is openly illegal and that cannot have any constitutional fit or institutional path. But this seemed today to be his proposal, the great reform amago, the banner of electoral engagement. Do you really intend to turn the next elections into a plebiscite against the Statute of Gernika? Don't you find him reckless? Do you know that the Statute provides support for more than 80% of Basques? Think about it slowly because we're still on time. Give up that pact against the Constitution that they closed with EH Bildu. Complex times are coming and the last thing Euskadi needs is to divide even more. Changing your name doesn't change your substance. Each year they call this challenge in a different way: before a foreign nation or a confederal state, now a political concert. But it's the same thing, and you know it. Bad winds, Mr Lehendakari, also for the economy, apparently. This you were announcing to us, because you came a little rough this morning. He has said that he maintains the growth forecasts for the next year, but has often stated that he is not in a position to guarantee them. In this uncertain scenario, what we need the least is an institutional crisis that drives away confidence and investment. Because not everything is pink, much less. We are not exactly at the best moment, given the fall in economic indicators in Germany to which he referred, the trade war between the United States and China or Brexit. We also have worrying signs in Spain. The largest increase in unemployment since 2008 was recorded in August. The trend was similar in the Basque Country: 3,000 more unemployed and 13,000 less members of Social Security. If you have the temptation – and you have also had it this morning – to presume to be one of the least unemployed communities in Spain, I advise you to analyze the data more thoroughly to discover that reality is more disturbing than what those numbers say. In fact, most of the employment that was created last year was in the public sector. Employment in industry was destroyed, low quality employment and temporaryity increased, the number of self-employed people fell above other communities and we expelled young people with higher education in the face of the low supply of skilled employment. If that were not enough, the Basque Country is among the seven communities that offer the worst working conditions, with a long-term unemployment rate of 40%, compared to 32% in Spain, and a wage gap that remains above the national average. The reality is that Basques gradually become poorer. The average wage in Euskadi has grown by 2.2% this semester, which means a loss of purchasing power of almost 1% in the last two years by the rise in taxes, while the current expenditure of the Basque Government is triggered, investments are forgotten and aid to families is cut. But you say that we are prepared to face the crisis, if it comes. And how, Mr. Lehendakari? No Budgets? Without taking advantage of the recovery to undertake any of the reforms we need? Mr Urkullu, I have the suspicion that you really do not want to agree the Budgets with anyone. They're making them look for a partner to support them, that's true. But that naivety of keeping the doors open to all leads to the logical failure of any confluence. It is very difficult to agree with those who do not seem to have a clear project for the Basque Country. He knows well that there is no possibility that this group will share the same policies as Bildu or Podemos because our projects are not compatible. That's what you're playing at. Although I sometimes believe that you are sincere in defending nothing and "whatever" because you do not seem to share a project with your government partner either. Some have interpreted, however, that they seek preferentially the agreement with the PP; above all, you. You must be the only one in your party who wants to agree with me. I understand it's not out of love, it must be out of necessity. I also think it must be by exclusion, because they came out of the experience with Bildu and because We can store a lot, but don't remember anything. The key to testing the sincerity of your intentions, however, is to analyze the gestures you have made to try to soften our heart. I'll remind you of them. You may have been forgotten, but not me, and not my party either. After the last municipal elections their greatest effort has been to isolate and politically exclude the PP where they have been able. They did so in Navarra, where they agreed with Bildu to prevent a government of Navarra Suma. They didn't care about the shipwreck that the shipwrecks had given to the Uxue Barkos government. Today it governs the Socialist Party thanks to the welcome of Otegi. Nor did they have any objection to pacting with Bildu in Labastida and Laguardia to snatch the mayors from the PP, which was the most voted party in both municipalities. Have you noticed that your party maintains agreements with all the parties in the House except the People's Party? What are you members of the Socialist Party, members of EH Bildu where your vote is needed to cast the PP, members of Podemos in Madrid? Therefore, their gestures and political reality are very revealing of the role they want to give my party in the Basque Country, a party that is worth them to provide numerically the majority that they lack in Parliament, which they use because it has a sense of responsibility – and I will continue to do so – but which at the same time seek to eliminate from the political scene and from the social landscape. Mr Urkullu, I wonder why we should support you in the Budgets when, in addition to all this, they fail to meet the commitments agreed in the last budgetary pact of 2017. The company tax reduction was then assumed, but the commitment was also made to address an income tax reform in 2020 with the aim of returning to citizens the effort they made during the crisis. Now they say 2020 is to start studying it, so we don't know how long they're going to study it. Our goal is to give more prominence to people, an impulse to society, to give more importance to people, to their capacity to take initiative. This has been done in the rest of Spain. Taxes were raised in 2013, after which they have been lowered several times. Not here, here we are dedicated to fatten the public arches and in the end we have the highest average type of IRPF in all of Spain, despite the Economic Concert. It is no less than in 2018 that the collection has increased by 660 million, compared to 2013. Look, we are 7,000 Basques less and we have not recovered the occupation rate we had before the crisis. Here the Basques are being squeezed, they are being squeezed to make no policy from the government, and we want those things to change. I have already announced it publicly, and in the next few days we will proceed to register at the general meetings of the three territories... It's weird to talk about these things, because you then tell me, "I can't talk about these things because I'm lehendakari." Last time we made a political pact. Let's talk about these things: we will register in your institution, in the general meetings, a proposal for tax reform to bring a revulsive to this Basque country so paternalistic that you design every day. We believe that there is life beyond permanent control and government intervention, and we have full confidence in Basque society. We are firmly convinced that this land can be more dynamic and entrepreneurial if given the tools it needs. I do not know why we have to resign ourselves to the idea that the money of the citizens where it is worst is in their own pockets. We will plan the reform to improve the disposable income of families, increase our attractiveness especially for professionals, promote investment and improve our competitiveness. You will already tell me what your proposal is, if you want to do any, and if it is possible to reach a meeting point, but I repeat it again, without fiscal reform there is no possible budgetary agreement. Of course, you cannot make me swallow that I am already being addressed the request to lighten the IRPF with this proposal that you and your members of the Socialist Party of Euskadi in Bizkaia have regularly collated in order to favor the players of Athletic, which is true that you are all Basques. That measure, it seems, did not require further study, but, Mr Lehendakari, not all Basque citizens are in a position to play in the Athletic, no matter how much we train or win those payrolls, what the majority would like, but they cannot access those measures. What we are referring to is the part of the people on the street, who have a normal payroll and who have many difficulties every month, which involves a huge effort to reach the end of the month and sees that their expenses grow and their income diminish. I tell you seriously, I tell you without any joke: either you relieve the burden on the families or you don't count on us. I also told him in private and I want to repeat it to him in public today. Mr Urkullu, Euskadi needs quiet reforms. I have been demanding them insistently since the beginning of the legislature and it was an express condition to offer the cooperation of my group, but the fear of your Government and your party losing power keeps you locked up, tries to hold others responsible for their lack of boldness and lets the time run, doing as they do, while those reforms settle in limbo. My disappointment cannot be greater. I wonder how much longer we can endure without a serious strategy to meet the demographic challenge, without addressing a profound change in the social protection system or with a constantly deteriorating education system. This course has 3,000 students less in the Infantile and Primary stages. We only have 1.88 workers for each pensioner – they say it takes 2.5. The Basque Country languishes, Mr Lehendakari. There is one fact that is very eloquent: the Basque pension deficit – it was also known the other day – reached 4 billion euros last year; it is twice that seven years ago, when you took office. This is your balance sheet, Mr Urkullu: we are twice as dependent on the solidarity of the rest of Spain as when you arrived, and on top of that they pile up with breaking the one-size-fits-all Social Security box. His Government's unwillingness to reverse that situation was clear; it still did not have a comprehensive family support policy. This is the most pressing challenge facing the Basque Country; it puts our future as a society at risk. This morning you asked for a deadline until 2030 to attend to it; there's nothing, 11 more years, but you already have seven. It does not help your approach to immigration at all. Instead of promoting immigration for employment and real integration – because that is really welcoming, Mr Urkullu – you have developed a subsidy system that condemns many of those who come to Euskadi to indefinite social dependence. I can't find anything social about it. We have to change it. We will see whether in law they are able to put forward an in-depth strategy to ensure the sustainability of the system, to correct the deficiencies in management, to turn Lanbide into a reference service and that, in fact, people who have difficulty getting into employment will ever find a job. I have seen you and your group flirt on this issue with Bildu's positions, both in the budget negotiation, which went wrong, and in the draft law on urgent budgetary measures. There they approved a salary increase of officials and educational concerts at 2.5 versus 3.5 in those of the RGI. As I mentioned earlier, the rise of private sector workers, who are the ones who pay for all this, is 2.2%. Funding is increasing, but more than 70,000 Basques are poor, despite receiving social assistance. And that realizes that the system chronifies the perceptors and does not offer them real job opportunities. I want to be demanding in the request for more controls, and I think we should agree there. I believe that it is possible to develop a new model linked to training and employment, and I have asked you and I reiterate that you put in place a social guarantee, that the beneficiaries can actually receive face-to-face training programmes, that they exercise their co-responsibility and that their use be assessed, that you really deal with the people who have subsidies and do not treat them simply as one more clientele. And I think you'll have to choose and you'll have to tell who you're doing the reform with and whether we're doing the reform seriously. And it seems to me that our opposition is a sensible opposition and it is a focused opposition, and I will not understand that your parliamentary group wants to be amazed, as usual, in nobody's land. I won't understand, Mr Urkullu. Our educational model, then, works worse than before. We are leaders in student spending, but we have a failure in academic results, mediocre results, as a result of a decline that began in 2005, without the Basque government being able to stop it. You are in the work of drafting the education law. I don't know when he's playing, but I understand his laws are always slow. But, far from reassuring the education sector, it is sowing discord among the different actors for the undefined structure and funding of education. We are promoting increased funding for educational concerts, bearing in mind that there is inequality in the conditions of a network that hosts almost half of Basque pupils, but receives 36% of the funding. There's a lot of discomfort. You guys want to look the other way. Last year we had 29 strike days. More strikes are announced for this year. This is a matter of deep concern to families and is detrimental to the academic outcomes of students. Look, the imbalance in the treatment of both networks, the obsession with the Basque, all this contributes to nullifying the freedom of choice in the Basque Country. Today you have spoken of equity, but I tell you, to equal everyone in a mediocre quality is not equity, to indoctrinate is not equity, to be obsessed with linguistic prejudices is not equity. Equity is to achieve a real quality that opens up opportunities for the future. Mr Lehendakari, you had to withdraw, because it was within your competence, the Herenegun educational programme because it became the most evident proof of the ideological sectarianism that is sometimes imposed on Basque teaching. It was an attempt to strengthen the theory of conflict and to equate victims with executioners, with the aggravating, on this occasion, of targeting minors. You see, the strengthening of a story that places ETA as the real enemy of this land should be the essence of building coexistence in the Basque Country. We need to consolidate our future on clear ethical foundations; however, his Government's response is often melifluous, when it does not contemporaneous and boonist with those who still sit in this Parliament today without having condemned ETA's criminal trajectory and without having made self-criticism about its complicity in the ideological cleansing that ETA wanted throughout his life through murder, harassment and extortion. That hasn't happened yet. It has today called for a consensus position on this issue by all groups in this plenary. He says we need a consensus to strengthen a moral basis, I understand. Consent on what? What then did the presentation of memory and coexistence serve? Don't you remember that we said that in order to get this talk going, to be able to participate, we, of course, need that consensus, but on an ethical ground and a moral basis, the need for these people to condemn ETA's crimes at once? Freedom is not guaranteed in all corners of the Basque Country, nor for all people. I don't think a ruler can deal with a matter as important as this. There are still spaces of hatred, which are the result of 40 years of terrorist barbarism; they live in many villages and in many municipalities. This year there have been more than 50 tributes and acts of cult to terrorism in the Basque Country and Navarre; last year there were 192, 192 tributes, the presentation as heroes of those who were criminals – they murdered their fellow men –, the presentation as heroes and as an example to follow, also for youth. I think it's a very worrying matter. Do you know the reality of people who do not feel nationalistic, the impossibility of expressing it in all those spaces that are eaten by hatred? Do you believe that there is freedom in the Basque Country or that there is going to be freedom in the Basque Country? Until anyone anywhere in the Basque Country can go, if you want, with a Spanish flag and nothing happens to him, there will be no freedom. Or what is freedom: the freedom to be all nationalists in order to live together in peace? That can't be. I ask you to be much more energetic in guaranteeing freedom, because that, indeed, is human rights and because, moreover, that example offered to young people and that way in which they are forced to live in Basque society does not guarantee that what we have lived in the past cannot be repeated in the future. I'm gonna finish it. I am committed to strengthening an alternative of ambition for the Basque Country. I want this society to recover economically, socially and ethically. I want the missed opportunities recovered from the enormous damage that ETA has caused us. We must bet on this for an open Basque country, in which opportunities are created, which wants to be an engine of economic and social transformation for the rest of Spain, not that it wants to be a nightmare, a headache and an element of discord with the rest of Spain. I want people to not have to leave here – especially young people – in search of better expectations outside, but that is why we have to trust people, because that is the asset we have in the Basque Country, only people. It is not a question of tying them to the control of the Administration, we must give them more freedom, more opportunity to do so, we must open up and we must also liberalize policies in this direction, aimed at enabling people to develop their initiative. What's the point of politics, Mr. Lehendakari? What's the point? I wonder every day, you have to ask. Of course, it is not to grease every day a power machine that can crush in elections or that is invading people's spaces of freedom. It is not to take away the protagonistship of people or society, nor to promote that loss of social protagonistship before a political party, the guiding party, the party that prevents us from having some kind of critical thinking ever. That's not what politics is for. It's not for digging trenches either. I will display with courage and energy my political positions if they are different from yours, but you will not see me digging trenches or opening divisions that only impoverish and leave us with our hands tied as a society to face the challenges of the future. Politics must serve to transform society. The problem is that his performance in these years, that of his Government and that of his party, has distilled too much innocuousness. We carried two legislatures without knowing very well what was the purpose for the Basque Country, beyond occupying all the spaces of power. Otherwise, there is no noise, no nuts, no reforms, no laws, no direction. We're in the final collections of a failed legislature, and you know it better than anyone. The feeling with which people abandoned this morning the full room is that you wanted to pass today from dots, that you have nothing more to offer and that you don't want to talk about anything anymore. You have the opportunity today to really tell us what your intentions are and what you intend to do. You'll get the chance this afternoon. Look, and all this does not happen because my group has not been willing to cooperate. And we have received criticism for collaborating with you, but I think it was our obligation for the people who are there, on the street. Now, our collaboration has always had conditions: it asked for courage, it also asked for respect. Finally, I also wanted to be able to have an interview with someone who really had the capacity to speak and who did not live trapped in the impositions that his government partner has on him. That's what we've been seeing lately, too, every day. I now think that my pessimism with those policies, with the emptiness of words, with the absence of facts, does not go backwards. But I will tell you that I will never renounce or resign myself not to offer and promote an alternative project that will really place the Basque Country in the place it deserves, where people can really be protagonists of a successful future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u5	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u6	Good evening, Mr. President. Chiefs of department, congressmen, guests, friends. The Socialist Group is coming to this plenary in the spirit of accountability. Not before the groups, but before society, because we have made a commitment to it and we do not want to talk about anything but that commitment, which allows us to deploy self-government, which, through agreements between different people, allows us to continue building the social and progress Euskadi in which we have always been the Socialists. A reminder more than opportune when we are one month away from celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Statute. I want to talk about those things that the Statute has allowed us to build, which allows us to do so today. I'll also talk about what's missing, of course. But above all, I will remember that those policies that we can so much presume are possible thanks to the best pact of coexistence that we have been able to make. And they're possible because we've been able to develop it with a shared will among different people. That was only in danger when someone killed him two decades ago, when someone decided to change the fruitful path of understanding between different by the frustrating way of understanding between nationalists. This year, 10 have been fulfilled since the Socialists rescued that Statute from the forgotten drawer of Ajuria Enea. We recovered its intensive use because it gave us tools to deal with the brutal crisis we inherited, and since then it has been revitalized. So my group comes to this plenary of general policy with the satisfaction of that two-year anniversary of which we were protagonists: that of their birth (the birth of the Statute) and that of their rescue. And we want to talk about self-generacy as well as about what we've done and about what's to be done at this time of law. Let's focus on it, not on hypotheses. Let's talk about what we can do all of us. As people think, not in elections, because elections are no reason to stop. In this gathering, we have a chance to put this argument aside, to do what is before us, for once and for all. We start from the fact that Euskadi is not an oasis, but neither is it an apocalypse. That is the principle of reality that should apply to us all, that and what capacity citizenship has given us, how many seats we each have and how we want to use them to guide policies, which is what we decide in this Parliament. So, if there's anyone who has temptations to use this year to shoot, go ahead and let the Socialists use it to solve it. And that's what we want to talk about today. I want to start by looking around. An international context full of risks and uncertainties that have sown reckless leaders. Leaders abounded in power from the discourse of fear to the different, the exclusion of the different and the exaltation of themselves as something superior to everything else, who are clearly endangering the coexistence, the economy and the pillars of the welfare system. Unfortunately, we will have to get used to such a dangerous environment, but the best way to deal with it from Euskadi is to strengthen rights and freedoms, strengthen public services and strengthen our productive fabric. That's what we're doing. And we need allies. We need them in the rest of Europe and we need them in the rest of Spain, where the sectarian virus has spread. We care about Spain for the Basques. We are part of Spain, and we Sociists want us to participate in the substance of this integrated project. That's what the American people said in the April elections, because the invasion was in danger, because our rights, our liberties, and our self-portraits were in danger. And we knew that the government of Pedro Sánchez had turned the people around in a few years. We saw him in Basque houses. The half-contested millions of more pensions, the thousands of workers who have had a minimum salary, have seen a government that defends their freedom, and have seen it when the euscal society has received precise respect, conversation, and commitment. The independence and the right parties checked this way by reversing the budget. And that's why we went to the elections, and the Basques were loud enough to say no to those who wanted to return to the cave. But a majority of the select seem to have forgotten what has been said in the campaign, and that is why we are again on our way to elections. And there the Basque Socialists will again claim what is best for Euskadi: a government led by Pedro Sánchez, because President Sánchez's commitment to this land, to progress and coexistence has been proven. As this House knows, there is no re-centralizing threat on the part of the State. There is it on the part of some agents in the state, and not precisely the Socialists, that is proven. That is why we are in favour of a socialist government. And when that happened in the past, the Basques did better. So the Socialist Group hopes that in this parliamentary course we will be able to count again on a Government of Spain allied with the concerns of our neighbours. But election appointments cannot paralyze the Basque Government. They haven't done it this past spring and they shouldn't do it this fall. And what we did we came here to talk about today. I will do so with perspective because, whatever the lehendakari decides in relation to the election call, this is the last general policy debate before we all stand before Basque citizens. The Socialists are committed to the governance of Euskadi with a top priority, which is on the first sheet of the agreement we sign: employment; creating opportunities for job creation in the private sector and consolidating public employment. The first time I participated in a session like this was five years ago and I expressed my greatest concern: the improvement of the economy displayed by the then government could not reduce unemployment. In my first minute of intervention, I spoke of the 174,000 people who could not find an opportunity. Today, 116,000 people remain in this situation. For the Socialist Group, this remains a major concern. But we have done one very important thing: create the conditions to create 58,000 new opportunities. It's no consolation for those who are still on Lanbide's lists. It is not, but I have already said it: neither oasis nor apocalypse. Today there are more people with jobs who contribute and who contribute to Social Security, who support the public pension system and who also guarantee this right for when it retires. People from here, from all their lives, who come from other places in Spain, who come from other countries to build Euskadi together, with equal rights and obligations, people who with their effort completely deny those who stigmatise those who come from outside. And women. It is they, it is we who are pulling out of the Social Security affiliations cart, not yet in the conditions to which we aspire, it is true, and I will refer to this when we talk about the Social Dialogue Bureau, but I want to highlight this because it was one of the essential commitments that my party has made with citizenship in the last autonomous elections. It was one of the main efforts we made when we negotiated the governance agreement, that women wanted to leave the place of compassion and protection to ensure our full participation in all social spheres; that the demand for equality so required, but that, above all, Euskadi needs to incorporate into economic activity the immense potential, all the talent of half of its population that we are women. And we're making it possible, among all of us we're making it possible. As far as the Government is concerned, we have created a scenario of stability that favours recruitment in order to continue to grow. Thus, we have denied the agrarians who announced the chaos with social measures of both silence and the rise of the minimum wage. That is the way, which is approved where the minimum wage is due and the improvement of the income of our pensioners. Volunteer statements can be accumulated in this House to implement salaries and pensions to look good every Thursday. Workers and pensioners can continue to be misled in precarious circumstances. You can keep proclaiming what you don't do when you rule somewhere. But it is also possible – which is what we Socialists do – to move forward where it is really possible to do so, to agree with who wants to do it and tell the truth to the citizenry. Here we had the possibility to generate new niches of employment. We could make tourism a residual sector in our economic fabric or make it a modern and sustainable industry. We could make the most disadvantaged regions find new opportunities with industrial tourism. We could make all our attractions as a country a real, consolidated, quality and sustainable economic engine. We could get our visitors out of the permanent conflict, to confront those of us who want to meet us. And that is what we have done with tourism: to consolidate an activity that has come to stay, that gives stable employment to more than 100,000 people and that already accounts for 6% of our wealth and that has still travelled. And with trade, on which 130,000 families depend and which accounts for 13% of our wealth, or the ambitious proposal to protect consumers in this world from risks – and there, consumers are all – protects us all. All this is possible because, as I said, the Basque Government has fulfilled its political obligation: to understand the value of stability, to agree on what unites us and to manage the differences inherent in a plural society like ours. That is the best country investment we can make to meet the challenges ahead. A triple investment: investment in policy, agreements and concrete actions. Investment in supporting our productive fabric, our entrepreneurs, who in the midst of so many uncertainties are able to see great opportunities. They need tools to continue to create wealth and employment to guide their internationalization in a global environment and to foster their innovation. Investment in cohesion, in the public system that shields rights, corrects inequalities and guarantees the right environment for economic growth. That's what we're trying to do. We can make this debate a catalogue of everything we lack, and I am sure that we would even share a large part of the analysis. But the Socialists have understood what was important; therefore, for those policies that we have agreed, we present ourselves today with this result sheet. A sheet of opportunities, of more rights, of doors open to the emancipation of our young people, with a job and with a housing that they can afford. Because the last legislature, the Socialists were able to lead the conquest of a new right, that of access to housing. And in this we are committed to developing it. It is seen in the immense promotion of rent. It is a strategic objective that involves increasing the supply available. We do this with the construction of new houses, with the capture of uninhabited people and with direct aid. We want accessible housing to also be a sign of Euskadi's identity, with its own names: Bizigune, Gaztelagun. Gaztelagun, an innovative program that is being improved to reach younger people, because youth is one of the groups to which the Department of Housing serves in a preferential way, so it will have a quota of priority access in the rental apartments. That is why we also work on a youth law, as we did two legislatures ago. By the way, it was blocked for reasons other than its content; it is what the opposition has when it blocks, that the only thing it succeeds in is delaying the solutions. We are investing in social sustainability. We have more resources thanks to more progressive taxation and we use them to clean up the accounts, to be better prepared for new risks and for social investment, which I have already mentioned. We've been most eager against the labourer. It was necessary, and the work department's effort today was regulated by 13,000 workers. And we have reinforced a Socialists' bet, a deal of agreement, of insight, of union, of business and administration, to create worthy employments, the socialist government set up the road 10 years ago, and now recovered with a new rule: A decree for a permanent table for social conversation. There you have to discuss the measures in various ways to improve the situation of the workers (healthy, breviary, labor press... .). Because we believe in our workers and their representatives, because we believe in those who have entrepreneurship and want to bring it forward in the best conditions of competitiveness. The way is that, the encounter, not confrontation as a strategy. And it is that women who continue to suffer from the wage gap do not solve the permanent conflict at all, which resolves them is the thorough monitoring of legislation against any discrimination, the fight against fraudulent contracts that are very feminized, the creation of equality units in labour inspections, the demand for compliance with equality plans in companies. That is why it is good news that the Government and social actors have worked together to address the root causes of economic inequality. And again here we will be able to enter the catalogue of what is missing, but we are paving the way for putting an end to one of the most important deficits that we have as democracy, the discrimination of women simply by being women. A great step has been taken this year, which also had previous support from this House, which guarantees parental co-responsibility. Undoubtedly, the guarantees of conciliation, the equal right of parents to care for their children will be a hindrance to those who use it as an excuse to discriminate against women in employment. But we had a task done by the government. As a counselor, I began to promote these measures with the implementation of telework in the Administration, because these issues that we are so concerned about today were part of a strategic reflection of that Government; with an expert committee we drew all future scenarios in the face of a demographic reality and great economic and technological uncertainties. What is now being done is to deepen the measures that will allow us to adapt to that reality, a reality in which, among other things, the right of women to decide freely, without labour or social pressure, whether they want to be mothers or not must be protected. In that defense we must continue, because we see that everything we had been winning on this ground today is intended to destroy from other institutions. It's so serious. Today there are parliaments and governments that are frivolous with our rights, so when we play back in our freedoms, this House, which represents Basque citizens, must renew its commitment to equality. And we also renew our commitment to improving the legal and assistance protection of all those who feel threatened or who have been assaulted. That is where we wanted to focus with the new decree of free justice to which so many women must turn. We've got more left. We need to improve the protection of victims of gender-based violence, which was one of the socialist contributions to the governance agreement; we are going to make a law at the hands of feminist movements and we hope that it will be dealt with with with agility, with broad consensus and, above all, with a clear message: the Basque institutions, unlike others, we have no doubt on which side we are on: we are on the women's side. And we also lack something else in this legislature, and we do not want it to end without ending it. A year ago in this same debate I announced that the Socialists were committed to the elaboration of a Basque law of historical memory. I did so from the conviction of my party and I did so because, as a counselor, it was up to me to begin to develop the law adopted shortly before by the Socialist Government of Spain, but it is also a democratic challenge. We see other newly emerged autonomous governments that have rushed to place a new and heavy slab on those who were shot, persecuted and enslaved during Francoism. This Basque law, which completes the state, we owe it to those who lost everything to preserve freedom for all, we owe it to them to regain the dignity they wanted to steal from them. It is necessary to close with democratic memory the wound in which those who despise these victims continue to steal. In this we Socialists are clear and equally demanding with all totalitarianisms. You have to know the truth and you have to delegitimize any reason that at some point someone has feigned to kill, kidnap, marginalize, torture and persecute another human being, without exception. Franco's over and ETA's over. There are still those who excuse Franco and there are still those who excuse ETA. We Socialists reject Francoism and terrorism, and we cannot admit that there are still people in this House who have a single form of rights violations and attacks on our freedoms. We've worked and worked on the Memorial Committee. In this chamber we have signed several agreements for the victims, but in the victims' Biktime of torture, the only one that has ever obtained was an international day's attachment with one mouth. Sociists have been in every agreement, but not others. I said it at the very beginning of law, and I repeat it to-day: Where the day will come, we'll all have to say, "Never, but never before." Never again and never before should anyone have been stripped of their human dignity in order to be an element to destroy for any political purpose. Therefore, the Socialist Group maintains its proposal for a social pact, we want a cross-cutting agreement on coexistence. We want a moral rearmament of society on a basic idea: neither before, now, nor in the future will we find any political reason to justify terrorism or any other violation of rights. Here it ended with lives, here many lives were kidnapped because it wanted to end plurality. Thanks to those who resisted we have made use of the diverse Euskadi, the Euskadi in which we can all defend what we want, the Euskadi where we have agreed some rules so that we can all fit in. And that precious good, that wealth that so much suffering has cost to preserve, has to be the engine of any new covenant that we want to build. The Socialists have been involved in every moment of history in reaching the agreements that have made it possible for us to reach this day. And we're going to get deeply involved in all that there might be tomorrow. We should all be clear that every attempt to exclude a part of society, its way of feeling, has failed, and that all attempts to include the whole of society, without anyone giving up their feelings, have been a success. They failed Estella 1 and Estella 2 in the 30s of the last century and in the first decade of this one. Gernika 1 and Gernika 2 hit the integrative pacts of the 1930s and 1970s. Anything that wants to replace the most successful experience of our history, the one we are living, must stand on plurality and legality. Any attempt to break what has been so hard to sew, any idea of a citizen's category depending on the feeling, will be led to a new failure and a new frustration. The Socialists won't take part in any adventures to break things, but we'll give everything to keep the society of euscal to face the future. In two months we expect the text of experts to receive, but we can't look the other way, we can't counter-contradict difficulties to make deals. No. Each group here must have a clear political attitude, which must decide whether the agreement obtained last year in May is sufficient or whether we answer what the citizens ask us to do; that is, to use our self-generacy to ensure social rights, to protect our Plurality, and to strengthen each other's life. The Socialist made that effort in our own private vote, who could search out the things that we agree and dump the whole job. Because, if we make this trip, let it be to achieve something better, more integrative and more progressive. But the Socialists are not going to get on any train that is going to derail and, above all, that everything that we have achieved to date is carried away by the ravine. Mr Lehendakari, you have brought back here your proposal, your proposal and that of your party, that of the political concert. He knows that it is not ours, but, above all, the biggest problem he has is that he aims at objectives we share, which we can share to a large extent, but by the wrong way. The Socialists also want self-government with guarantees, of course, but we are not going to get it with a confederal model like the one you are proposing. That is why we advocate a constitutional reform, which others have not wanted, but please forget the confederal model and let us join forces to improve the current system. We achieve shared goals on viable and effective paths, because next October 25th is 40 years since the Basques for the first time were able to vote how we wanted to exercise our self-government. It has been 40 years since we opened the doors to the period of greater prosperity, which even terrorism itself could not bring down; we opened the doors for all, even those who rejected that agreement, to come out winning with it. When a birthday comes, the date is not with the health we lose, the date is usually with the celebration of having arrived as the greatest treasure. That is what, of course, the Socialists are going to celebrate again, which we have held four decades of understandings and disagreements, but, above all, we have made Euskadi grow. And we will continue to use that precious instrument, which is the Statute. We hope to count on everyone in the law of social economy, worked from the base with the cooperative sector, one of our great signs of identity as a country. But we have stuck laws that affect democratic regeneration, such as that of the public sector and that of transparency; we seek agreement there and in the law that shields our social protection, that makes no one who needs it go without their right, that no one who doesn't need it stay with a euro that doesn't belong to them and that makes less people need it every day. Today there are 10,000 families less dependent on this protection than five years ago, but there are almost 55,000 who continue to do so and there are others who for different reasons should access and do not do so. This is our goal, to make fewer people welcome because we improve pensions and because we improve the wage conditions of workers, and to make those in need welcome. All groups can make their contributions. And when I say all I say all; those who have opposed their consideration know it. The process has begun and the slogans are already left; we must work on it and we want it to be with the maximum consensus and not by simple majority. Another challenge is the environmental laws, which will eventually be three, but with the same goal. We want a regulatory revolution in the face of the great challenge ahead, from which no one can hide: the climate crisis and the essential ecological transition. It is a question of health, but it is also a question of equality, because, if we do not do it right, those who suffer the most will be the least protected. In the last year we have managed to be an international reference with the conference "Change the change", but the Socialists do not want Euskadi to be just a reference for organizing international events, we want to transform reality. That is why, based on the conclusions of that conference, the Department of the Environment promoted an agreement that involves the entire government, an agreement that has led to the declaration of climate emergency and to start acting. We will work on that agreement and we will also work on the Budgets, which are open to all. I am not going to speculate with anyone's intentions, and I ask that no one speculate with mine either, because I make those clear. We are prepared to sit down and agree, once again, to look at the proposal before us and not at the ballot boxes, and we hope that the opposition will open up to a sincere negotiation, in which everyone's contributions can be accommodated. Because that of the alleged coincidences between the opposition to block and its null ability to be an alternative is already having a couple of electoral responses, and it seems that it doesn't come out much. Everyone is very free to agree with whomever he sees fit, also to paralyse government action, even if they have not done so, but then we have to be accountable to the citizenry and explain to him what his vote has been used for. So I will not talk about pieces or question the strategy that each group wants to practice in this House. If anything I know well, because as a counselor I was affected by it, it is an unfettered opposition. And, despite that, we were able to design the transformations of our health system, education, innovation, democratic regeneration and transparency of administrations. All that right now, and by socialist action first in the opposition and then in the government, has continued to spread. I do not interpret alliances, neither explicit nor implicit. You agree, we do, and we don't hide. And it seems to us very positive that this is the case, that there are cross covenants. What we do not accept is that those who have these practices of cross-agreements cross-vets to move forward with legislative and budgetary proposals. Sociists want to talk to every team, and we're not going to give up a contribution if the government proposal improves. We're not going to look at who's doing it, but what it's asking for and what Socialists and the Jelt Party have worked so hard that we don't weaken the government program. It's been three years and you'd have to learn that it's the only way to influence the euscal policy that's to vote with the government. But we have more to do. We need to get an education bill from the government. It's a great pending subject. The current law of the Basque Public School, which began José Ramón Recalde and culminated Fernando Buesa, has been an example of how to build a model that lasts over time, a model that has guaranteed stability in the educational system to two generations for more than a quarter of a century. The updating of our education system must continue to focus on public school and social balance. The classrooms are the first scenario where our young people play the equal future in their access to all resources, to English teaching, to learning skills that allow them to have equal access to other higher education opportunities and to the labour market, to be able to handle all the challenges they are going to face throughout their lives. It is therefore difficult to explain why classrooms become an element of confrontation and students become hostages to other strategies. Today, the Socialists again claim the right of workers to improve their working conditions and the right of families to have their children receive education commensurate with their needs. We appeal to the real social dialogue and the right to education that educational institutions must preserve. Dialogue and agreement also on the right to health and the right to have the best professionals, with all guarantees of access to their places, with all guarantees for the best care for citizens in our outpatient clinics and hospitals. A healing updated with the incorporation of Oncology into our public system. And a sanity to meet all needs. Thus, I would like to express my gratitude to groups such as Naizen for the impetus of initiatives that advance equality within diversity. It is clear that this House has been receptive to a fair lawsuit with transgender people. It is also a challenge to provide an adequate response to the comprehensive reform of the audiovisual public service. It was one of the issues that the Socialists put on the agenda and included as a parliamentary commitment. The debate has taken place, as we pointed out at the time, with the participation of experts, citizens and EITB professionals. We will work on a broad consensus basis that will ensure that the new EITB is efficient, plural, creative and independent. These are some of the issues that we have on the immediate agenda without thinking about elections. The Socialists are not going to fool anyone, nor are we going to practice biachism. We are not going to devote parliamentary work to accumulating headlines or slogans that fit into a social network. The Socialists are going to spend the time we have left to solve. We have used these years to align the government's agenda with the citizens' agenda. We are now aligning it with the international agenda, with that of the United Nations, with the sustainable development goals. That is the new universal language with which we all have to understand beyond borders and flags. When the legislature is over we will know that there will be a lot left to work, but we will also know that the socialist decision to commit to the government will leave a better Euskadi. It's time to finish what we started. It is time to lay a foundation for preparing the future. And it is time and time for this House to rise to the political level that the citizens who voted for us deserve. All groups have that opportunity and trust that the Socialist Party will be committed to that goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u8	Congressmen, Mr. President. As you know, the main political lines of your government and the left plurality and the opposition between us and Podemos. You know our diagnosis very well. The crisis was not at a particular moment when something vanished after we had been struck, and the injured (especially the labourer) became better after it. The crisis and the policies being implemented have, in our view, given way to a dramatic change in Basque society. A dramatic change to the point of having normalized that for the first time in decades our children are going to live worse than us. Of course, we do not resign ourselves to accepting this reality. A reality that you did not recognize in your speech this morning. The winks made by you this morning to our coalition contrast with the action of your Government, Mr Urkullu. The words must contrast with the facts. The policies pursued by his Government over the years have not only not combated the consequences of that crisis, but have strengthened a new model of more unjust and unequal society. Most have been forced to suffer a deterioration in their living conditions in order to ensure the increase in capital profit rates and the comfortable way of life of those who sustain economic power. The model of this government is based on the logic of the capitalist market, a logic incompatible with models based on a fair distribution of wealth. We believe that this government does not care the least that during the entire legislature the income of the capitalists in Euskadi has grossly increased their difference with respect to the income of the workers and, above all, of the workers. In fact, the fiscal policy applied in Euskadi, the result of a three-band agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, has helped to increase these differences. Wages have lost 10 points of purchasing power in the last decade in the midst of a competition for lowering taxes on profit companies, and the last chapter on taxation, the one known these days in Bizkaia. Then it will be said that there is no money for the excessive budget demands in public services made by those communist madmen of Elkarrekin Podemos. But, of course, you don't even want to hear about an agreement with Elkarrekin We can on tax matters. They have been refusing to talk to us on such an important issue as this with different excuses. Thus, we have seen how they agreed fiscal policy with the People's Party in the context of budgetary negotiations, while we have been told year after year not to mix budgets and taxation. It is an exercise of hypocrisy – not the first time I tell you this – and of double standards to measure, in our opinion, for one reason only: we think that its model is closer to that of the People's Party than to which our coalition poses. Nor is this the first time I have said this in this House. The model of the Basque Government is also based on the provision of public services management to private companies. You call public-private management the delivery of the public to the hands of contractors whose sole objective is to obtain profit at the expense of the needs of the people and the indecent exploitation of their workers. We are seeing the multitude of labour conflicts in these sectors. The spread of precarious employment in our society is a reality. In a country where the average rent is close to 1,100 euros, this reality is crushing Basque society, especially young people. And throughout the legislature, the Government has not put in place effective measures to address this situation. The Government had limited itself to advertising and reviewing some thousands of contracts that had already been known to be fraudulent. His actions and those of his Government as a whole have always looked more at the interests of the great employer than at the interests of the working class. You recognized as a mistake by your Government and even assumed personal responsibility for signing an employment agreement with the employer without even talking to any union, behind the back of the unions. And we recognize the value of those who admit mistakes, Mr Urkullu, believe me, we recognize it. You rectified and recognized that mistake, and we recognize it. But we also think that this chapter showed what we are saying. It clearly showed where you are looking, it showed who you count and who you don't count on in making public policies. We think they don't have the workers, we think they don't have the social majority in the country. That's why we think you don't want to have Elkarrekin We can, because we think that our policies and our approaches do look or try to look with determination and strength at that working and social majority which is the most vulnerable part of our society, which is an unjust society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u9	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u10	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. President, do you know what struck me the most? That you have considered it a political privilege of Euscadicus which Podemos repeated over and over from 2016: equality between women and men, challenge of climate change, social cohesion and migration. These matters were a privilege to society, and to-day, thanks to ourselves, and even to the institutions. However, apart from the revolution in the political and mediatic diary, there are some circumstances which exactly marked the political moment of the present three years: political instability and the global world's space and relationships have been reconfigured. Here are two clear examples: The Brexit and the global commercial war is caused by the U.S.A. SCRIPTURE, and the threat already known and acknowledged by you, the economic crisis. Likewise, we cannot ignore the context of high political instability in the State, which reflects the repetition of the general elections. Almost a year of government in office is bad for Euskadi and bad for the State, especially in the context of a foreseeable recession. It may be remembered, Mr. Urkullu, that in the spring that we asked you twice about the state of the Basque economy and what measures your government was doing to protect the families and to prepare our companies. But you did a positive rating of Esscal economics, and you said the crisis would have no effect on our economics. Today, your governments, and even your parties, admit that the black threat of the clouds is approaching, and that it is in great danger of breaking into the Euscal economy. The reality is that we grow at a slower rate than the whole state and that the industry does it below expectations. Euskadi has lost more than 20,000 industrial jobs since 2018, and everything seems to indicate that job destruction will become widespread. There is already a decline in social security affiliations and fewer notified contracts. Temporary contracts continue to rise and indefinite contracts continue to fall. But in addition to unemployment, the major structural problem in the labour market is precariousness: low and irregular wages, which, together with poor working conditions, are the main reasons for the labour conflict that Euskadi has been experiencing in recent years. It should be noted that, with the exception of metal strikes, large labour mobilizations are mostly outsourced persons who provide public services: concerted education, primary care, cleaning of police stations, residences in Gipuzkoa or Tabakalera. We firmly believe that in the fight against insecurity, institutions and public administrations should be an example and a source of decent jobs. In fact, Mr. President, among the political measures you have mentioned there are so many of these Euscadians missing. You mentioned some global challenges for the next ten years, and we agree with these challenges, but your government and you and Podemos have essentially two different differences: one, the diagnostic starting-point for these global challenges, and the second, how to deal with them, what politics and the projects of the people we would like to do with them. If we do not make a severe diagnosis of the ten years that come in our country, and do not make the policy to correct the deficiencies of our society, we might be able to leave half of the society to the future, and then we would have a country where our feet are covered with mud. What do I mean by this? Looking at many facts and indicators, that we are worse in many areas than in the middle of the crisis, and that we haven't been able to recover from many of the Basque populations and in many countries the former quality and fertility of life, is now more than ten years ago the cracks in the region of society and region. It is difficult, therefore, in this ruined country where the differences and the chances are at hand, to reach the roots of the future, and to arrive in an efficient manner. Last week we were able to read a lot, a lot, about the income differences that exist in Euskadi. Clearly, there are people who are not well off. The welfare and poverty rates were worse than those of 1986, in full industrial conversion, and the number of people served by social protection services was higher than at the worst time of the crisis. What are we doing wrong, lehendakari? You assume that there is a solid social system and that three out of every four euros is spent on social expenditure. And yet, this does not prevent more and more people in Euskadi from having to arrive at the end of the month or have a decent quality of life. It may touch to analyze the effectiveness of the model itself, because we are also the territory that spends the most on dependency, but we have 13,000 people waiting for some service or service. 13,000 people who are mostly cared for by their daughters, mothers, sisters, daughters-in-law or domestic workers with totally unfair working conditions. This overload pushes women into job insecurity. The partiality in Euskadi is almost entirely feminine and mostly involuntary. In 2018, 32% of women worked part-time compared to 26% in 2010, yes, in the midst of the crisis. So on the one hand we have 80 % of partial contracts signed by women, and on the other hand, 75 % of people who work without contracts, to which we must add 24 % of the wage gap. And inequalities, Mr Lehendakari, are the breeding ground for violence. In 2018 there were 4,244 women victims of violence against women, 224 more women than in 2017. And 365 women reported sexual assaults outside the family. These figures are inexhaustible, and it is clear that the steps taken thanks to pressure and social demand are very short. We must go to greater measures and greater budgetary commitment. But if there is a social group that has worsened its situation and expectations due to the crisis and subsequent policies, it is youth, with a rate of unemployment that is around 20 % and an average age of emancipation of 30 years. Young people do not find their place in the challenges of the future presented to us today. Your government's return plans failed. Those 10,000 people who have had to build their future far from home don't find it attractive to live in Basques, so they don't go back to their native country. Mr. Urkullu, the worst thing that can happen to a society is to lose confidence in young people. According to the indicators, today in 2019, the young Basques are less confident and less eager than the most serious moment of the crisis. And again and again we must say that certain districts, towns, and countries, are more serious than serious genera and generation-waters. Besides, the population is older, and they have less opportunity to receive public services; they have worse employment rates, and, of course, few chance of making a worthy project of life. And one more point that cannot be missed in this diagnosis: the very high price of rents in Euskadi is turning access to housing into a luxury, a luxury for the lowest rents, and in some municipalities in particular. On the other hand, you have read a long list of plans, actions and programmes to stimulate business and employment, but the reality is that our industry is not able to regain the weight it had in the Basque economy in its day. The industrial crisis that Euskadi has been experiencing for a decade has been chronicled for some sectors, so it is becoming increasingly evident that during these years Basque industry has not been prepared for the new global challenges and looking for niches to ensure its sustainability. So we have, for example, the automotive industry, above all suppliers, manufacturers of components, which are the majority in the sector in Euskadi, and petrochemicals, facing their adaptation to the new mobility late and doubtless. It is true that his Government has signed the Paris Climate Agreement, but in the meantime, Euskadi has increased its CO emissions. 2 , to the point that we are one of the European territories that contributes most to climate change, with emissions per capita above the Spanish average and above the European average. We can therefore conclude that his Government's efforts to adapt our productive sectors to the challenges of the twenty-first century have been either ineffective or non-existent. And taking this diagnosis as a starting-point, which is closely connected with the daily life of a person and of a majority of companies, we have prepared solutions and proposals to solve the problems of 2019, but at the same time we also put new foundations to 2030. Firstly, let me say that, in addition to being a strategic mistake, Euskadi loses a great opportunity by separating and considering the ecological energy issue as an isolated challenge. The key is that the adaptation of our economy to the fight against climate change is the core of a transformative programme of great importance, which serves more than just to put the green label on our economic model. It must be a catalyst for relocating production and consumption of all types of products, from food to energy, it must help transform our industry into high value-added sectors and, above all, it must generate quality jobs. If Basque families and businesses are more vulnerable to the consequences of a new crisis today in Euskadi, it is because no structural measures have been taken. The economic, industrial and social policies of 20 years ago no longer serve to build the future, and this is the approach that we are going to defend when we talk about climate change and ecological transition. If the current economic model generates precariousness, inequality, pollution and does not create opportunities for young people, it is obvious that the best we can do for this country is to build another: fair, clean and future. Besides, we believe that it is extremely important to transform euscal production system, so that the crack from the region to the region will decrease. We need an industrial and productive development connected to the region, which will be connected with the nearest circuits, so that during the past few years they will be able to promote areas which have remained beyond economic impulse. But together Podemos clearly shows that public services are indispensable, besides the means of employment, in the social development of a region. Where there is no preparation offering, or where there is no health or social service, or a supply of culture and no stalls, this will not fix the population. On the contrary, men will change to places with better conditions of life. That is why ending inequalities between territories means ensuring equal opportunities and the same quality in access to public services for all people, regardless of the place or family in which they are born. Another strategic issue for our group is to eliminate the gender gap. The defence of women's rights and the fight against machist violence have been a priority since the birth of our political space, and I believe that no one doubts that we have been a vanguard in this Parliament in terms of proposals and political approaches. But like the ecological challenge, equality cannot be encapsulated in an area. All departments, autonomous agencies and entities must review their policies from a feminist perspective and be accountable with measures and budgets for the eradication of sexist violence and the transformation of the model of social organization, so that people's lives are at the centre. Because the so-called care crisis is not solved with timely economic aid. Care must be a right so that women do not have to choose between raising or working, and this is directly linked to the demographic challenge you pose. Again there are two ways to deal with it: either by patching with star measures or structural measures that face what is really behind, the deficit of public services related to children and dependent people. But there is also a difference between the rights of the housing and the delay of the prerogative and the giving of the young. That is why the fourth axis of our prime is youth. We propose measures to make strong foundations of life. The digital and ecological transformation which the Podemos team proposes to our productive model together is indispensable to afford worthy employments of quality to the succeeding generations. In the meantime, it is necessary to renew the politicalities of the young people, to give priority to the access to the housing, to create new tools which will strengthen the performance, and to secure the education and preparation of all persons. Lehendakari, we believe it must be a country priority for our young people to regain confidence in our society. To meet the challenges facing us, Euskadi needs creativity, innovation and the strength of youth; therefore, we do not intend to design the Euskadi 2030 without taking into account the difficulties of young people. Finally, I do not want to fail to raise our position on a subject on which we have also been working and claiming the importance that you have given him today in your speech: migration. It is undoubtedly a country issue and an area in which we seek to improve, by sincerely contributing, out of partisan interests, out of media interests. It is imperative that migrants have access to their rights as citizens, without hindrance or discrimination. This involves defining a Basque host model, with inclusive tools, and to do so we request that your Government demand the migration skills that the courts grant to the autonomous communities, so that, since the exercise of our self-government, Euskadi can face this challenge with all the tools at its disposal. Well, Mr Urkullu, once we have put to you the elements that outline our vision of the situation in Euskadi, the horizon that Elkarrekin Podemos poses to face the challenges we face, let me also make our prediction of what will be the end of the legislature. You have made it clear that you will try to recover the time your government lost in the legislation field. In four months you want to do what you haven't done for three years. We do not seem to mind that your government is in a hurry, because the quality of these laws may be shaken by rapid proceedings. For, on the one hand, you have to encourage the agreements to make these laws, and know that if we make good agreements, we know that we must provide time. But on the other hand, a good proceeding from the legislature may improve a law by the roots, and that is, for instance, the contributions made by Podemos to the law of myrgetic permanence. In the area of memory and coexistence, you propose that we move forward in the recognition of victims and carry out a critical reflection on the violent past with an explicit mention of the role played by ETA. We accept that challenge, that of establishing a fully democratic coexistence on a firm and solid basis in human rights, delegitimizing all forms of violence and any violation of those rights, saying that every violent act was unjust, unjustified, cruel and useless, came from wherever it came from, and working to ensure that all victims have the same right to truth, justice, recognition and reparation, including victims of police abuse and suffering. We want to repair and recognize once and for all, just as we must make the rapprochement of prisoners effective and ensure humanitarian treatment for them. In all this we can find ourselves, Mr Lehendakari, through broad and plural agreements. Also in the area of self-government. We remain convinced that a new, socially advanced Statute is possible, which is a fundamental tool for addressing the challenges we face as a society. This can be achieved regardless of exclusive views on identity. Elkarrekin We can only be in agreements that are cohesive and not fractured, that add up and solve problems, and not that divide or serve as a bold weapon. In that regard, we would also like to highlight from here the work being done by the so-called expert group. To search for deals and avoid locks has been a constant constant in our work these years in the legislature. No one can deny that the man who needed Podemos together has had us there. Our party raised a salary to the officials, and the revenues of the revenue increased. These things stayed outside because they had to go on in front of us, and they went on with our support. And at the same time, we've made proposals which the whole Union has unanimously accepted, and if they did, they'd be closer together with the equality you've drawn and the Eucracy of life. As to what concerns us, apart from the lines of primaryness I have pointed out, we wish to give a special attention to two other subjects, and in these we shall develop our work of opposition. Education: the firm defence of public, effective, and inclusive school, seeing that your government is increasing more and more the resources of the promised education. We will work together with the institution of education, in order to maintain the chief task of public education in the euscal education system. Also, Mr. Urkullu, we're asking you to negotiate a new sector agreement to improve the conditions of 30,000 professionals. And we will continue to form corruption and clientism from our organizations, to display laws for the improvement of transparency and government, but also to accuse irregularities, as in Osamen's OPEs, and in the dining-rooms of the schools where we are engaged in working to improve the pattern. However, given the current circumstances, our priority objective for the coming months is very clear: to define an economic and social shield that prepares Euskadi in the face of the coming economic crisis and the general instability of our environment, because the shield that we had so far is quite cracked. For Elkarrekin We can this must be one of the central elements of the end of the legislature: working on concrete measures, which allow us to deal with the economic crisis by protecting families, supporting businesses and facing global challenges, while promoting a solvent and lasting adaptation of the Basque economy in line with the axes we have explained. He's made an overly optimistic assessment of where we are. Perhaps you should recognize that Euskadi is part of a situation worse than that of 10 years ago and from there seek the way in which what remains of the legislature to take measures to protect and prepare Euskadi for the economic crisis that is coming, above all, to families and people who may lose their jobs. This is the final context of the legislature, Mr Lehendakari, and in part the result of its management. Much can be done to protect Euskadi from a global crisis. You will have to prove if you have the ability and if you have the will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u11	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u12	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good evening, Mr. President. Good evening, all of you who have gathered here today. My first words, once again, to proclaim both women and equality. For another year, we've got serious data on the subject of machista violence. We must speak of the most visible face of poverty, which is spreading disturbing data for another year, and for another year the pay-water, among other things. We need a government to answer all sorts of violence which women suffer and suffer, which will also answer half of the popular, and which we believe to be a feminist government. If we look at any indicator, if we look at any indication, we are outside, and that's unacceptable. What Angela Davis calls a holistic feminism, including integrating, not only the profligacy of the genus, but also the way to overcome other oppressions: It would lead to economic oppression, social, cultural oppression, to the destruction of environment, of immigrants. "The country is full of people who don't take for people," says a bad news team song, and unfortunately there's also one of ours. We live in a world, in a Europe in which the threat of the extreme right and xenophobia and the reduction of rights grow constantly, and we know that this boom is historically related to the loss of power of citizens. So, what's power? Well, power is well-being, it's equality for all and for all. Well-being is growing, growing by radically caring for the environment, and it's already very late. Welfare is cultural identity, care, protection. Well-being is health, education, social services, is sharing wealth, not being content with managing poverty. Well-being is freedom. Anointed askatasuna yes, askatasun undividual age kolektiboa, etorkizuna, erabakitzeko askatasuna. And if we look at the Spanish state, well, bad, very bad, the truth. Which one of your benches said, lehendakari, that Spain is for Euskal Herria a mortgage? Well, that's right. And instead of bold proposals, we see a Basque government – although at some times today it has seemed like two, and with the swords a little pulled out and some in the middle of the election campaign, but I am addressing you, Mr Lehendakari – a Basque government that continues to talk about a train and a few transfers and forgetting others. And I told him last year that we'd stay the same if they were still 40 years claiming the same. And it's 40 years, but I think the situation is much more worrying. The voices that announce the arrival of a new recession – i.e., I believe a crisis – are increasingly and more authoritative, and the data corroborate what those voices say. And this widespread situation in Spain, well, catches them a little with their feet changed and catches them plunged into a political crisis from which they are unable to get out and to which they are unable to give a solution. Four months after the election, what do we have? Well, we have choices. And your Government, and yourself, lehendakari, is very concerned about the Spanish situation, concerned about Spain, recognizing that they have their hands tied and proposing as a solution to the problems of this country that there is a stable government in Spain. As to the state of Guernica, it has long been established by the State of Guernica, and we have discussed it here before. And in front of this, your government anger for one day, yes, but only in part. When the Supremes put out the verdict against our vekatics, this government was very angry. But after that comes a Parche, then comes a plea, and nothing else, not much from the Spanish State, Mr. Urkullu. Your speech has revealed that until now, at least, it has not been an excellent legislation. this. But he has at heart discovered something else, and it is that this government cannot at this moment guarantee, that it cannot guarantee this society. That he can give more uncertainty than certainty. You've admitted that what the Basque People have said and done for the past few years, we need a wide stock of villages to deal with the mills ahead of us. And in this important situation, we see this government again without doing a few household jobs, without yet giving an answer to those who most needed it, and we have no opportunity to give complete answers at the door of a serious economic crisis, because we have no more to do. You have acknowledged in your speech the same things that we have been putting on the table for three years, that the Spanish State is plunged into a serious involution and that your Government is not prepared to face the crisis that is coming on us; that we have our hands tied because we have no sovereignty. With this, you have left us more uncertainties, and what people need are certainties. You tell us – and statistics say – that the economy is growing and unemployment is falling. But it is already clear that this does not guarantee well-being. Precarity is installed and the risk of poverty rises in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. Since 1986, the year this measure began, there had never been so many people in the Basque Autonomous Community at risk of serious poverty: 172,307 people. It increases risk and increases uncertainty, because more and more people fail to cover basic expenses. Unpaid or late invoices reach historical peaks, which are unable to meet unforeseen expenses. Situations of lack of well-being are experiencing a spectacular increase and reach almost 485,000 people. In Euskadi lives very well the one who lives or the one who lives very well. But having about half a million people who do not reach the minimum welfare levels means that we are in a society that is increasingly unequal. Her Government's inequality has increased, and the data also worsens if you're a woman, and even more if you're a mother. In 2008, 34 per cent of all cases of real poverty were women-headed households. It has been 10 years and the figure has risen to 50%. Young people and those over the age of 65 are also significantly worse off. And you will remember that one of your Government's commitments was to reduce poverty by 20%. "Sus pollíticas de cosión social hacen agua, señor Urkullu." And it is curious that we are in the full danger of entering an obscure period of uncertainty from the government of stability. Euskal Herria Bildu therefore reaffirms himself in all his parliamentary action and in the priorities that we set ourselves in last year's budget debate, and we remain committed this year as well. I insist, we are still engaged this year as well. All the indicators and economic actors his Government was in contact with spoke of a very worrying deterioration of the situation. We will probably have to make a shared diagnosis, but what we do see right now is that, in the face of the scourge that is coming to us, this Government has its duties unanswered. We are faced with a situation of exceptionality, and I think we should look for exceptional answers. And I challenge you to do so without looking at the Spanish state, without looking at Madrid. How do we respond as a country? Well, if there is will, we and we in Euskal Herria Bildu are willing to commit to the governance of this country, and that includes the Budgets. Let's make it possible here, without waiting for what happens in the Spanish state. You ask for state pacts to build a train. Well, let's make pacts, pacts of state here, in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, which is not the state we would like, but it is the one that gives us to work right now. We're gonna make pacts to take care of people. You took a picture of us, Mr. Urkullu, and there are some things missing in that picture. I wouldn't want to ruin the picture, and I'll tell you why not. Because we, too, are men and women of this country, because we have children here, because we have our oldest and we want the best part of the Basque Country. But I think we have to go through some things to make that photo real. As to unemployment, this government does not say that we have the least of European data and that only Greece, Italy, and Spain have worse facts. That's not what I'm talking about. It doesn't say that the rate of unemployment has gone down, but the occupation hasn't got too much energy (%56). He does not say how Confebas will be angry at him, for he will say that the conditions of work are growing worse and worse. They're getting worse. De los contratos que se there formliodo entro mero y agosto el 93 %i precaris o temporales. The government does not say, but Cáritas says that in his report the number of families in poverty or in a state of state of statelessness has increased. And all these data is worse in women's cases, but this government hasn't mentioned it. You didn't mention that unemployment and premeditations have been feminized. That's why we claim a feminist government. And much worse: for instance, you do not meet with us, you do not meet with some of our agents, you do not meet with the syndicate majority of this country, Mr. Urkullu. That's the way I'm saying it because I see it, and I feel like we're losing it, we're losing it. We are losing, we lose even what we have, such as, for example, Euskaltel, who had as president nothing more and nothing less than a lehendakari of this government and is now owned by a foreign company, after successive ballads that had the approval of the Basque government. I believe that proactive action is also necessary, and I am talking about taxation, because it is one of the main mechanisms for the redistribution of wealth, but the fiscal policy that we have, thanks to the PNV-PSE-PP pact, is a regressive fiscal policy and it is also unfair, and it has proved ineffective and a failure for times of crisis, a model that delays the collection of Basque administrations and that what has brought us are cuts and inequalities. The Basque Country is absolutely backing up the retrial energy, far behind the average of Europe, and CO 2 In front of the fluids. We consume more energy, CO. 2 We pour more than the worst data in the last year, which we have received, and the last straw, I think, is really very interesting, because it is intolerable. And the climate crisis can be declared, and we will, and the Basque People will be gathered, declaring this climate crisis, but it will do no good if we do not change the industrial policy, the neurotic policy, or the movable policy, because this is a smistic problem, we can't make magic, and we're not going to get out of the situation that we're not just a declaration of climate crisis. Our reassembled energy production has stopped at 7% since the last ten years or so. The average of Europe, you know, is approximately 17%, I'd mention Sweden. (60), but, well, we'll take the 17% average. But this is not the case with this government, and knowing also that by the hand of those who pass beyond us in the world there are more economic options than we are, by the hand of a small people like us, that the money that investes in pure pharmaceuticals and useful environmental policies is more profitable to the economy than in many other respects, and consequently to the people. And as all this is important, let us not forget that we shall have to reflect again, Mr. Urkullu, and that will be the induction of the consumption, because it will be necessary. On this subject, as elsewhere, we place our whole disposition, but in return for a real work, if we are really in earnest to change it. And I can tell you the same about the investigation, but this government sometimes seems to have joined the Spanish model of "Invent them!" And he's still not betting on the investigation. Of course, we are well below the EU average and far below Germany, Austria and Belgium, and, of course, below China or South Korea. We're losing talent – sometimes real scientific eminences – by raking or shortsightedness. Working and economically harming the most prepared people in this society and forcing them to become fellows at the age of 50 is somehow opening the door for them to leave, and, of course, they are leaving, and that may not happen in the next elections, but, of course, it will pass an invoice to this country, in the medium and long term it will pass an invoice to this country. The university should be in charge of that research system, the commercial University of the Basque Country, together with the other schools, but our public University of the Basque Country, and he's still limping and begging. And I'm talking about college, but what do we say about education? This system of education is incapable of all the 16-year-olds to be couctused, and I say this with great anxiety and zeal. In other words, he's just started his class, and the families are already half shaking. Summer has passed, you haven't solved the conflict of the compacts, even in public schools, there are rooms that are empty, and you haven't given an answer to these empty rooms. The question of Segregation lies in this, that so many indicators to measure the results are worse and worse, and it seems to me that we are far from equality and perfection. And again we are in the presence of a hot autumn, and the government has not yet, for instance, introduced the law of education; but how can you describe, you know, that there is not enough agreement with the community of education for that purpose? I don't want to forget, even for a moment, to speak of linguistic rights, because all the Basques, all of whom, for three years, have been forced to change the fact that language has not been able to be treated with the Administration, with this administration, and with others in the Basque Country, and that this is to make the second-class citizens who wish to live. I know there are good facts (Brift, Huguet), which make me quite happy, no doubt, but I think we must certainly take great steps, still. I'd like to continue with the health world. The first class of attention is furious, there are no substitutions, they see more than 40 patients; the villagers are later and older, the T-shirts are not removed at the age of 40 or at 80, the doctors have only a few months of waiting for a resonance, and so they can get a shift with so many specialists. OPE bat aurkeztu duzue, an OPE of 215 places, but what you have not said is that they are to cover places of doctors who are already, who are no longer doctors, and that is also important to say. And there's another question, which has questioned the good name of Osar in recent years, and has questioned the reputation of professional members of the Osa, which is the question of OPE, as we believe, which this government has managed badly. Jon Darpón is no longer sitting in these chairs, but nothing has been settled, as we believe, no political care has been taken about it. You said this morning, yes, that you are in the obedience of the courts of justice, but there is no political care taken to explain what has happened, and a great many things have happened, and especially the equality of rights which all the citizens have. And it's not only a member of Osace, but it's also possible to say that there's a business model. I told you last year that we saw the face of the iceberg and didn't know exactly what it was under the sea, but there are some cases which are still looking for or have no light, like De Miguel, as the Road or the Bravo, which affects us all, and we must cultivate a democratic royalty, which, I believe, we must make the choice of the democratic kingship between us all. As for the hinges before us, you made a special reference to the demography, and I'd like to share some reflections with you, Mr. Urkullu. How many babies are born is a data that I think is not the only one. Demonstlement is not a problem in its own nature; it is a question whether we people have the ability to determine our project of life; a family we want to form, what kind of family we want to form, how we want to look after, how we want to be guarded... I think those are the keys. You know what the Basque family most care about, it's on the final evaluation report of the Family Plan: security for the future of his children. There is no doubt that this country has great challenges, but they have more to do with good living than with birth rates, in our view. If we want to achieve a permanent social and just model, we need a double strategy built from feminis and an integral point of view, the balance of reproductive work and productive, which will also bring us a new balance, or at least a new balance which seeks a new balance, in order to encourage and extend the support of the organizational policy. Demographs include newborn children, but men and women that are 100 years old come in. Here the question begins from the children, but in order to make up your mind to keep children, he will have to know beforehand how he will face the future, what a contract he will have, a month, a few days, a fixed one, how much he will gain.... There's a lot of young people who won below 1,000 euros and can't make a projectr. And besides, these young men, as has been said before, cannot make a choice of giving, the other because the price of the house is still higher, as well as the rent, as the property itself. So what are our young people's real possibilities of fertility? It's all right, we think, for the sake of children, that doesn't question, they'll be welcome, they're welcome when I get them, they've been welcome, but I think they need integrated politics. Pensions will not be paid because more boys and girls are born than when they start working they will pay salaries of 800 euros and contribute to poverty, or, if they are paid, they will also pay poverty pensions. And you came today, Mr. Urkullu, with that plan between 2020 and 2030, right? And I'm worried, on the one hand, that part of this 2020 plan is still unfinished, because they're not finished, we didn't make a diagnosis, and it looks like it's just for a moment to kick forward and think about 2030. We'll have to make a balling, how the plan of 2020 ended, what good it brought us, what's no harm, but what can be better for us to bring back in 2030? And I thought it was more than 2030, and, of course, we'll have these issues and we'll have them cleared up, but I just thought it was just a list. It is important, on the other hand, to be aware of the framework in which we are moving to analyse your speech, Mr Urkullu, because all the challenges you have posed, all the policies that could be undertaken from here to deal with them, or need Spain's prior permission, or, if in any minor matter they do not need it, are permanently threatened with the centralizing desire of the Spanish Government, whatever the Government may be. And I want to talk for many years about one of the most important conventions which have been concluded from this legislature. I'm talking about what you agreed on in self-generacy, about which you've also discussed, another relationship with the state, which would lead to an agreement, which would be a guarantee of the real difference, and would extend the way to the right of deciding. We have a large deal on this subject, and this government has said very little about it; And there is one among the cares I have heard from you during these months, which you have repeated, and which is a more extensive arrangement, which would unite us all. That's not possible, obviously, we heard it here, and it makes me a question: What part of this agreement is it that you and your government are willing to leave out in order to open the treaty? Look, we must submit to any negotiations, and the Basque Country Union has also agreed to this agreement, but it is not worth while to extend the agreement, to denaturalize the agreement, to abolish the agreement, and to give it the right of veto to the members of the community, which is of no use. Another thing I've heard you say is that you won't go to Madrid to introduce a text that doesn't have any guarantees, but answer me another question, Mr. Urkullu: what text is it, what text is it to-day that the Spanish Government would admit? I'm a little surprised, because I remember a few years ago you remind me of your words, don't you? And then you said that the new text would refer to the project of the Ibarhes, that in any case it would not be the "PNV plan" of "defendere conir." And to-day I have not found that you have defended me from the wines of sin él, for we have obtained a great deal of approval by the Jeltskiers of Euco, the Basque People, and partly by Podemos. With the political concert you've put up today, Mr. Urkullu, the Basque Country is agreed to assemble the Basque Country, and we think they can come from that, respecting the basis and principles. Let's make that deal, let's make the way together, let's decide that day Madrid says no to us. They're going to say in front of something that's not going to take us off. I'll tell you what next day the Basque Country will be: Keep working until that's possible. I told you before now, you must decide to be president of a Spanish autonomous community, to be a delegate to what they have left, or to be the leader of a part of this town. And I'd tell you that leadership to pick it up, because you're gonna keep the Basque People in front of you, Mr. Urkullu. Edozein kasutan, bide ha babesteko oztopoa era exean sartu zenoen. You decided to agree with the PSE knowing that it would prevent this path. Mrs Mendia said this very clearly today, you made a minority agreement with the PSE because you decided to do so, after accusing them of bringing the country to the brink of bankruptcy and other things they told them from the opposition – and I give you the reason for that. I guess you'll remember. We have spent years hearing that the PES is the crutch of the Basque Nationalist Party, but let me tell you that I am being questioned whether it is not the other way around, whether you are the crutch of the PSOE, an apparently comfortable partner here, who has you tied up in Madrid, and this without ever forgetting the People's Party. The point is, Mr. Urkullu, we need another relationship, and you know that we need another relationship to the needs of the people, otherwise we could do it for a thousand times, I said that we'll have a very long list of here and we won't have tools to do it. And you know that this state will offer no more than that, and you know that the only voyage to the Basque Country is to begin with. In a few days we shall meet from the Supreme Spanish side Procés. "Stanamos dispuestos a todo," said Rájoy, and though the words were not repeated, Sánchez said the same thing; and Podemus was also ready to write, not to mention Sánchez's attitude against Catalonia, to question. So, waiting or something coming from there, what's going to change... I think it is a waste of time and imprudence, because Spain has long known its position with Catalonia. Let's talk about peace and partnership. The Basque Country wants an integral solution to respect the rights of all victims and all prisoners. We don't want to make a simple relatto, we don't want a simple statement. Especially as this subject is being used for political competition. We want things to happen, things that are reasonable, things that are reasonable, things that are useful to us all, for the purpose of co-existing. We want to act positive, builders, we want everyone to have this process of solution. Today, no one doubts that we live in a new time, which is a pleasure to us because it opens new conditions to the future. And this situation needs fresh answers. We have come to the chief agreements of the prisoners last year, because we have agreed from the petty councils to this legislature that the sick prisoners deserve freedom, that they must all be in the Basque Country, and that it is not fair to disperse. The prisoners were requested to follow the path of legality. You have asked them to do so yourself several times, Mr. President. And so they decided to do, and this is the way they're developing it, but there's no positive response from the Spanish prison Institutes, unfortunately. The progress of the degrees now stands quite still, and fate and permissions remain blocked. Prisoners have begun to conform to the conditions of the law. It is our duty to fulfil the benefits and rights of this law, Mr. President. We're going to have to do the pedagogia, we're going to have to do a job of champagne, because I'm sure it's all gonna be a lot of good for each other's life. This country has great challenges in the future, and as men and women of this country have placed us here, they are also worthy of our quotations to-day, which are those who daily build this people, those men and women who do not despair of showing that a better world is possible, and who tell us that they want a better Basque people every day. We had the opportunity to meet at the Telesphorus de Monzón lab last week, some of us here today, and we had the opportunity to remember a sentence of his own: "Stop a moment. And looking around. We need to remember where we come from. Where we're going, too." Look, she's making a suggestion to you, Mr. Urkullu, Let's take that moment. Let's take that instant to make a common diagnosis together. But also socialists, unions, corporations, colleges, experts in this town. Let us make a common diagnosis before him. We have to make state policy, Mr. Urkullu. We're not a state, but we want to make state policy. We could make state policy before now, in very difficult times, because we learned how to make state politics. We need a state condition between us to protect the people, a popular tradition. Let's ask ourselves how long we'll be in mortgages with the Spanish State and how we'll make the mortgage up. We have a deal. I told you, I think it's very important that I get what you've accomplished in this legislation. The House of Euscala wishes to show the people all their generosity to protect, to protect, as a future part of this country, and to guarantee it as a people. I'd like to finish up today with a few words from the feminist philosopher, Marina Garcés, but I think he can summarize what I have meant, Mr. Urkullu: "Let's open the frame of what's possible together." We're here and we're ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u14	Good afternoon. To tell you the truth, when you heard some interference, and the last, with respect, I thought you had come to explain the conclusions and conclusions produced by a observatory, and not so much to enter into concrete engagements. No, I thought so. You'll think the same about us, but the diagnosis you've done has impressed me with the president's explanation. It's true that we're in the last year, and if this is a shock, the third cell is made, and the government is finally involved in it. And what I see is that, among other things, with all its defects, you will not admit, but that the political conduct of this people is here. A political driver, if you like, a share, from the fun and the rest of the organizations, it's all the same with the locals and municipals. And the president, as the helmsman, after he has arranged the main lines, brings them to the planet, to plans, and he wants to share them with the other institutions. And this is to advance for the benefit of a people, if it were to make them, or to examine them, whether superficial or partial, this has no remedy. O se, "the rate of unemployment may be diminished." Of course it can be diminished. "Equanomy can recover." He can recover. How? What do we have on the prosecutorship? What particular proposal have we made, yes, in yours? And then we'll talk about it. But, by the way, it's just fun saying that it gets better and stronger in the economy, create jobs, strengthen the eucalyptic system for social protection. Forced, because we have a good system, you dare to confess so much. It's good. Now, the reductions that are strong are not good. But if we want a new RGI, we'll have to get to the agreement that we want. But we have a foundation. It's a good system. It's good. Peace and fellowship. Do you need to take steps? Well, let's take a walk. I don't know whether they are expressions or that some people think that all this matter will be solved by time. As time passes, people will be forgotten and, statement will pass. And from the hands of the euscal society, and the means of political will, the necessity of a new political State. And the President quotes them in his discourse, for which dialogue and agreement are indispensable, but before that there is need of political will, political will is necessary. Government projects, 15 plans, 28 laws... why the harpsichord is a political will. Because one can say, "Listen, you've produced few laws, how many will you get in the last year? "I don't know. We admit we're missing somebody. But even a group of oppositions must admit that this power of locking is made one by three. And each one with his contradiction, but the three together, our chief concern is, of course, not that of opposition, but it is clear that even opposition can play a game. In the political context, anxiety, anxiety, I would like to mention, on the one hand, that they should be within 50 miles, in their own home, or in the street, or in the streets, young men; they are open. And similarly the Chief of Catalonia, the Political Representatives. because they ought to have been free, if an unjust man had not interfered with it. One of them, like great sins, trying to collide with the Civil Guard, and the other to give their word to the people. Those are sins. I would like to mention this so far as it is an unjust man. It has been mentioned that we are at an election party, and I believe that, if any such thing be signified by the political state of Spain, it is that this people must make its way, it must be its own way. We know that our political, economic, and all the rest are in a great degree, or at least in a certain degree possible condition, but we have to make our own political, economic science. And, moreover, the failure of inquest under the lower floor; I am convinced that even with all the halberdered Omnipotent Pedro Sánchez did not wish either Podemos or any alibi. He wanted, therefore, affection, which does not exist in politics. But you mentioned a subject yourself, Pablo Iglesias said to Peter Sánchezi: "Hey, the Catalan theme is your word and your decision, and we're not going to put any condition in it." And you've forgotten how your new partner, the ERC, told them a very political exercise... "Listen, if there's to be any deal before summer, then it won't be possible." Sánchez would have made his calculations, but underneath him, deep down, what is it? There's a political problem, it's Catalonia again, so that's not why this government was made. And the elections will happen and we'll see how they'll play back on this classic bipartidism, and then we'll see the 155 back up. Therefore, it has been said before whether there are temptations or not, centralizing or re-centralizing. Yes, yes, there are re-centralizing temptations, and they are there, but also the possibility or opportunity for unstated nations to find their proper status, there is also that opportunity in such a debate. It is therefore a political issue. But coming to us, in the speech of the President, to fortify the competency of nations and societies, these are the two principal pillars, finally, from the real economy. The competitive industry, its innovation, its creativity, and internationalization, is announced by the three main columns. But there's one thing that shows up and over again, and I think we need to know what the government's role is. The government's paper must be effective, but it's not by the intervention of the intervention in the industrial world, and it's not even an observer. It must be effective, and politics must put them in proportion as we are a small people, and knowing that knowledge is the best natural means for the interests of industry, and also for the future to be competitive with the prosecutor or the best conditions. And there's a new continent here that was not so easy in a few years: at this moment we all see the need of industry, we see the need of industry. Because first, the business of the richest people was industrial, the business of surrenders, and now we know from the hands of masters and workers that manufactures, factories, factories, and factories are indispensable. So when the president tells us that in his speech the budget will increase 5% per budget, and that between 2017/20 there will be 1765 million, it's obvious that it's his equipment to be effective, with all his capacity, of course. In the end, even if we want to cultivate and conquer the future, that is absolutely necessary. There's been strategic projects in 2017, 35, 2018. They're predicting 33 to 32 and 2019 because we finally say, "What do we want to do with it? "I don't know. And I think that when Mr. Subautua made the budget rules, there's a clabe for me, a political and social clabe, when they say, "el concepto de crecimito de crecimito inclusivo." They go in, it's not news. But when it is said, this is philosophy, which government will keep in its own design, what does it say at last? "La Interpendencia entre la geneción y distriction de la riqueza." That's the concept, and that's it looking for an inclusive growth. What for? "Objtivo: Eliginary desibilides. "Y no porque haya un impertivo ético-moralo, Politico ítico ítico íque tambien tabsil de justica social, sino porque es un facto de crecimioto econmico: Eliginar desigalides favorece el crecimiento económico... and this is the philosophy of the ancients, that is the business of this government, philosophy. The other day, we said, cada geneción necesita de la anterior, pero se debe a la que la sigue. And the concept of intergenerational solidarity, either we apply it also from that ethics in social dimension or we will leave to those who follow us a system that can apparently be solvent in terms of the materialization of rights, but not in its maintenance for the future, support for the future. The decisions to be taken must therefore be structural. That's why, when the president mentions there are three challenges, the climate crisis has been mentioned. The climate crisis has long been discussing this Chamber, and it's workin' for the year 2002, and every time, the new plans, not the previous ones being destroyed or cancelled, it's renewed and renewed, it's to-day. And I've got other things: If, from 95 to 95, the raw internal product has had 65% increase, it is clear that the gass in the heat effects have been reduced to 20% at the same time, so that even these plans have been effective in size and size, and so the plans have gone out again. I won't go in on any of the other technical issues, but I'd like to mention why I think it's very interesting and I think it's also a way to make a deal. I dare say, with all due respect, why, in preparing this debate, I have read the agreement we have signed in Navarre, we have signed some political parties, and we have collected EH, well, not on account of the appetite, but for the veto, as the guardian of the treaty. Again, Chivit and PSN have done you a good service in my opinion. Yes, yes. I'll tell you later. A Parlamentarian, an article written by a patriot on the left, is not my idea, sat down there. You haven't read the light Baina diru-sarrareak bermatzeko errentaz esaten da Nafarroatik, "Lege one da; berritu eta hobetu, egokitu beharko da". Eta Nafarroako Sailburu berriak, Carmen Maeztuk, esaten du "The last legislature has made much progress in social policies. The goal is to strengthen and improve. Miguel Laparra has done a great job." Entrebista Berri Why did you mention that there was money, but it's probably not that good? Well, there's money, and I think management won't be one of those top-tops, but it's not a disaster, it's not the kind of thing we've got here, it's not the kind of thing we've got here. Therefore, Gini's index is mentioned, but clarro is an index that measures the differences, and the less the percentage is, the less difference does it not? And there is an autonomous member of the Ertar at 25.8; Navarre 26.5; Europe (28), average in 30,7%, and Spain in 34%. Maximum amounts, maximum amounts for one person, for one person; in the United Kingdom, 330, not pounds, euro; Germany, 424; France, 560; Euskadi, 667; and Navarre, 623. I want to say with this that there is at least one convergence in the planning and design of social policies that is being made by the Basque Government and the Navarra Government, by the first government chaired by Uxue Barkos and now chaired by Chivite. Hori azpimarratu nahi nuen, as a possibility that we have meeting areas. Because, if I go to taxation, Mr Hernández, look on the programme, from page 50, the Navarre programme, where we talk about efficient spending, management model, fight against fraud, taxation for economic activity, company tax, tax benefits, deductions... There are agreed disagreements, it is true, there is an addendum of agreed disagreements, but philosophy is not incompatible. So, the question is, well, there's another change in the issue of self-government, which says "change of the law of the convention, greater autonomy in the agreed taxes and safeguard..." – look, we don't have this in the Economic Concert – "... Navarra's ability to establish new taxes." Eta hau da guk ére Kontzertu Ekonomikoren gaurkotze-prozesu horretan begiratu beharko genuine zerbait. Esan nahi doubana da: have they possible bada bucket, hemen zergatik ez? Zergatik, I'm not looking to see where we can govern. And I'm not leaving for a community... no, no. Navarra. And it's not that I rule We can: we rule together. And you're saying, "It's possible there and not here?" "I don't know. For example, the discussions of the ancients. And let's look at the comparisons of the raw internal product, why we are here, on the other hand, in the 121st of Europe, 21 points above 100; Germany is above 123, from the top of Sweden to (122); us with 121s. And below us we have Belgium (117) and Finland with 109. We're not lost in the world, are we? Something's done right here, and it wouldn't have been all over and over, but Christmas would have done it from the hands of that shared design and leader, with different institutions, even with the organizations in society. It's everybody's merit. Zer gerratazzen from Espaniarekin? Spain, when entering the European Economic Community, is 68% of what the European average is; then, the European Union of 15 – then, when it has gone to 28, the average has fallen. Of the structural funds of Europe, cohesion funds, Spain, for you to tell me about the social security deficit, Spain has received 168 billion, and now stands at 92% compared to the average. He doesn't get to the average. Of these, Euskadi received 3,845 million and went from an average of 86 to 121 for Europe. Hori da gauzak ongi egitea. Deficidal zero here, zero. State, 2,6. In debt, the State of Spain will have to say how the debt should be paid, in what period, in what period, is 98% of its raw internal product (98.5): One,2 billion. Millón de millines. Euskák, debt of 13%. Well, gero esaten gives that Euskadi would go to ruin if he managed Social Security... That we have never managed Social Security, which is a statutory (18.2 and transitional fifth)! It's a competition that needs to be transferred. That we are not talking about breaking the unitary character – which is not the same as the single box – nor the ties or respect for the principle of solidarity! We are talking about that Euskadi, because of the unemployment ratio, because it is statutory foresight – of course – because of the high percentage of contributors with maximum bases of contribution, because of the business fabric and the differentiated economic structure, would allow the articulation, would allow the articulation of a system own and financially viable. And that's our right. And there's still a need for him to get ahead of our industry as a tool. Two words around the partnership. I won't go in with the reception and all that. It is clear that in the work of the concept, and I have heard them, and I think they are positive, even the attempts we all make, including, of course, but we have something, it seems that the past binds us too much. We want to build the future, but the past binds us, it weighs a lot. And I think there's a way, a way, a concept... And he mentioned the Idoni Mountain, and Lander, and in a great measure, I think we must all have a deal on it, don't we? I mean, that it was wrong to give more value to an idea or cause than to the life of people. We have given or given more value to the defence of an idea or cause than the life of a person. And I think there's a starting-point, why, if there's anything above or above human dignity, we'd open the door to justification. I think that's the basis. And this summer I have seen in a record how an Israeli singer, whose name is Noah, speaks many things about the confessionals of Palestine and Israel, but he says: "Hay que hacer tres chaoss: Reconocer, discultparse y compartir." Confess, enjoy or forgive and share. And, I think, with less words, at least I can't say any more for now. It's clear about the state... and it has been mentioned how the State's need, history, and the decisions of this legislature, the government of Spain at this time in its functions, now during the election proceedings... The petitions, exigences, and demands made by this legislature, are manifest to be not to be fulfilled. At least, though there's a book or, at least, a list that has been admitted, although from that list there's a right to Social Security, at last, by the law of law, it's been introduced into its meetings. I'd like to be optimistic there, but I don't have much hope and I'd prefer my diagnosis to be wrong. Therefore all that is said about accusation and petitions, I think, is said. Another question is, how we can accomplish this exigency, by means of the imperturbability of Spain. States. Well, I'm talking about what they were talking about here. I don't know, disinfectant, others say there's an apocalypse here-I think it's all coming out with a majority of this legislature, and the majority is not a bad principle, it's not a bad idea. And democratic majority is also valid. Thus democratic majority does not divide a society. The majority of democratic majority is a democratic majority, why if each of us says that when we see ourselves in minority or majority, "No, you're breaking society, you're breaking up the identity of my habit." No, no, most people are. Now, this majority would be good to be as large as possible. Therefore, I do not know why there must be any doubt, because the articulated text of the new status will necessarily correspond to the bases and principles adopted by this Parliament. And the potential agreements arising from reflection, from the experts' opinion, will also be subject to the opinion of the presentation. I'm not afraid of that. Moreover, from the perspective that we come from a past legislature with unfinished jobs but that we then start in it, and it is possible that we are on horseback from another legislature, I believe that these bases and principles have that vocation of strategic character, which will depend on the presence of the respective political formations to what degree or level they support those bases or principles. So, me, without going in... , because Mr Alonso, when he made us the disquisition of historical rights, whether they appear in the Statute or not, it is obvious that he was not arguing with a party companion... But it seemed, it seemed that I was arguing because historical rights and such... The Statute, in the additional one also says... Of course, no, it says what it says, that the acceptance of this regime of autonomy does not imply the renunciation of the historical rights that could correspond to the Basque people... Ah! None, you say? Okay, fine. [[Barres]] Well, reconciling that historic tradition with democratic requirements, which you so dislike, which is the democratic principle, hence the symbiosis of those two principles, can come up with an agreement. An agreement may come up, but, well, I'm not going to insist on it. I'd like to mention the gathering theme... You say that we need deals, but then I don't see it in practice. I don't know if he's up there... Yes, there is, but he can't talk. Bai, bai, zuk hitz egin duzu, baina berak esandakoak dira, éta aurreko batan esan zidan berak ezin zidala weretzun; beraz... Berak esaten du: "We must end the PNV regime". "If we want to move forward, the peneuver era must end." That, in a journalistic version after vacation, has referred to us Larraitz. "If we want to move forward, the peneuver era must end." Stop. Eta Arnaldok: "I again urge you: We can, 11; PSOE, 9; Bildu, 18. We are a majority in the Basque Parliament and in the country as a whole, and these are the accounts to be made in the future." That's the approach. Besides, repeated machaconically. It's the new theory, isn't it?, of the independent left. Well, we do not know if we are indispensable or necessary, by abertzales, because now, as abertzales you are neither – at least, of denomination – now you are left independentist; then, you say, "Well, they will not want agreement on socio-economic or economic-social issues", and here comes, here comes what I have quoted from what was described in that article by a parliamentarian of the left abertzale, of Aralar, who said "Nafarroan month ederra egin dio, zergatik ha ere ez dira busti". And he mentions the letter of "son of the Izians." You haven't read the light. And having brought this to us, in these matters, Presences, RGI, and the rest, the question is: "Did you make any contact with PNV? "I don't know. 'No, Mother. No, Mother, not socially. That's true, I'm clean." "Are you clean? "I don't know. "And she offered the red clinette." You know, we have to replace Mom with ELA... [[Barres]] ELA offered him a red chlabelin, and in this march all cllabeline, pink, and garden, why don't you come in with us in a deal because this commercial mechanism is decided in so-called socilitary, because other orders must be put into action. And PNV thinks that the first force and the second power of this people, independently of their having relations, ought to come to the agreements, and even in these matters, because it would give them an immense strength not only to the conversion of the nation, but to the social institution, not to exclude any one. But if there are other cabals, si los números que hay que hacer de aqui en adelante sober, pues, entertainmentento, e e- justo. And see how you can handle that road with other people. For this arrangement, whether to examine the RGI, or even to examine the Memory Act, we are ready, and we think that as far as all the companies in Parliament are necessary, we shall all have that decency.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u15	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. After the speech of the legislative parties, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I'll introduce this second split into five parts. In the first part, I shall make a summary of what each spoke, though it will not be, as in years past, a sharp and definite abstracting; otherwise I would repeat what you have said and criticise with you. [[Barres]] Therefore, in the first part, I answer a general answer. In the second part, I answer to general references; in the third, to exact quotations and critics; in the fourth part I shall mention the subjects of life, and in the fifth I shall make mention of the auto-smiths. Nor will I sum up all that has been said, or make it easier for the media to do so. [[Barres]] As I said in the morning, it's self-exploding in our government. We shall consider the constructive proposals, and in short we need them all to improve the services we offer, and to promote a better future for the Basques. Part one: I'll make a brief summary of the ideas the spokesman presented to me. Mr Alonso, today you have deployed a whole host of criticisms and criticisms, some of them very topical as well. But I'm not just worried about what he said. I am also concerned about the distortion with regard to many of the issues that you have criticised; for example, the causes, the reasons also for the motion of censure to President Rajoy, the initiatives that other political parties were promoting to proceed with the motion of censure, the possibilities that Mr Rajoy also had before him in the motion of censure. I am concerned about the distortion also in relation to what is tax reform, the interpretation you have also made of what is the commitment to the assessment in 2020 of the results of tax reform. I am also concerned about the interpretation you have made of the political concert, but I may then be able to expand on this issue. I am concerned about what you have said, but I am concerned about the tone, the constant red lines that you are putting on the road in a sybilian way, in a sybilian way, Mr Alonso, in order not to facilitate the agreements, in order to justify itself, in the end, of your self-exclusion. Do you ask me what politics is for? I am telling you: precisely to agree on solutions and not to create problems. You have reflected a catastrophic situation of the economic and social situation in Euskadi. It's the same song as always. The reality, however, is the opposite. I am not going to dwell on all the indicators that I could show you and other parliamentarians or spokespersons for parliamentary groups, and Mr Egibar has also touched on many of the issues that we could reflect in the way of indicators. Euskadi has improved in all parameters over the past five years and is better prepared, Mr Alonso. This is a collective achievement, not just of the Basque Government. Neither this nor the previous one, I'm talking about five years. And it's a collective achievement. What I wonder is why, instead of putting sticks on the wheels, you do not join this task now, when the reference five years ago could also include you. Cohabitation is being consolidated in Basque society. In this Parliament we have repeatedly voted against the tributes to ETA members, Mr Alonso. We have proposals, motions adopted, which also derive this issue from the memorandum, from which you are absent, Mr Alonso. We have done this together in this Parliament. Do not present this issue, that of ETA's tributes, as a reality that divides us, Mr Alonso, because you know that it is not true. Living together in freedom requires commitment to what we understand as human rights and pluralism also, dialogue. Take part in this Parliament's memorial presentation – and let us work together – of that ethical soil that you have claimed, that ethical soil that already makes three legislatures in this Parliament has also been approved, Mr Alonso. Speaking of dialogue, give the expert group an opportunity, give the expert group an opportunity and help to hear and broaden the agreement that can be reached. Alderdi Sozialistari, Mendia andreari. Mrs Mendia, this morning I have taken stock of a functioning government which we are proud to have shared and which we are also proud to have with the Basque Socialist Party at this time in many institutions in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We are working together to respond to people's needs, especially employment, as you have reflected. This is our priority. Also progress in social cohesion, a mention you have made. That's how we're gonna keep doing it. And in the self-government presentation, since it has also made reference to the political concert, in the self-government presentation we share the goal of reaching an agreement to deepen our self-government, which means more well-being. I reiterate my hope and illusion in the outcome of the work of expert groups. And about the political concert I have expressed myself on many occasions, not just today; on many previous occasions. And what difference is there between interpreting an Economic Concert, which has a bilateral system of guarantees, and a political concert, for what we claim a bilateral system of guarantees? Together, Mr. Hernandez and Mr Martínez, two delegates. The subjects and problems you have mentioned are among the priorities I have alluded to this morning, and you have also confessed and underlined them. They will still be important to us, and, as I have said in the morning, they are among the prior prior prior priorities which may be remarked between some of you and those which I have mentioned in the morning, so we have a chance of association. Euskadi is a reference in social policies, Mr Martínez and Mr Hernández. You are governing a number of autonomous communities, and, as I have said in some plenary sessions where this issue has been raised, give me a measure that you have implemented and that can be implemented here or that we have not applied for years. They tell us about social inequality in Euskadi. I do not deny that we have to continue to improve, but, as I said this morning, Euskadi is among the leading countries in Europe in social equality, above countries such as Holland, Denmark, Sweden or Germany. They are Eurostat data, and they are not the indicators I have referred to before, which I am not going to quote, but all that is being published in recent weeks also by observatories and international institutes. There is a long way to go, yes, and in that way we can meet. I have this illusion that we can also meet with you. Mr Martínez, we can also find ourselves on issues of memory, as you have said, of self-government, in which Euskadi is the shield of Basque society and which we have to insist on social and economic policies in the face of the uncertainties we live in. I quote it as you have. You know that with realism and will we can do a lot. Basque Country to Bilari. Mrs. Irrie, I think you're looking at Madrid a lot more than us. Three fourths of the speech have been eye-witnesses of Madrid. I've been talking about what we're doing this morning in Basques and Eukadin. Yes, we must consider context, even more in this global world. I don't know where the capacity for excess is if we don't put it in context. On the other hand, I ask you to think about what is meant by the automatically and I ask you to do so. We want to get more and better self-governments to be less dependent, which is also to be more self-governored. We've had less than 40 years of jurisdiction, but we've moved on like a village and we've taken advantage of the opportunity. We have the means to promote economic health and employment by means of the process of organization and of guarantee social protection, even in the innovation, in the university, in order to continue culture. Obviously we have a lot to do. Let's do it. Let me give you one example of yours: I also tell you about Navarre, and I tell you also, that ye accept your resolutions here in Navarre for the thirsty parks. You, Mrs Iriarte, have said that a broader agreement on self-government is not possible. That's how I heard it. If that is not correct, I correct, but, in any case, I will say that I believe that it is not only possible but desirable. And I say the same to the People's Party, to Mr Alonso: let us let the group of experts work. I set up the political concert as an opportunity to broaden self-government and promote a new pact. The Economic Concert model is a viable and effective example, and has been positive for this country. Why not extend this model to reforms and political relations? It's an opportunity. In answer to general allusions, I shall continue to defend the positive point of view of the future of the people; I shall continue to defend the positive point of view from what I have heard. Euskati has challenges, and we have a chance to face future shootings. Economy growth is constant, constant. The society is engaged with Euskadin's hinges, and our foundation is solid, we're filling up the program. One important element that has been mentioned is the Budgets. We must be able to move away from the political confrontation environment of the State. I believe that this debate is also being conditioned in some speeches today. Adopting the Budgets is investing in stability. The doors are open. The Basque Government will do its part: to develop a realistic, adjusted and country-centred project. I have presented the 10 priorities that the Budget will contain, and we will continue to focus on investment, innovation and social balance. We call for a dialogue focused on budgetary content. The government wants Budgets and will work to have Budgets. An El Escétatorial en Esaña no va a detener nuestro proceso. La discoción del Gobierno Vasco al diálogo y accerdo presupuestari es total. The Euskon's door is open to agree and accept the next year's advance. We are well aware that we must be protected by the groups of this legislature, or at least that we must obtain facility. We've had meetings with all the teams to provide first information about the past. I've submitted the priorities that the project will receive this morning. Our ends are known: helping to improve public policies, to guarantee basic services, encourage growth and job options. The gates to dialogue and negotiation are open. And, Mrs. Irriere, like last year, we're willing to negotiate. Don't hesitate. 'Eusko' wants me to get my shit out of you, and we'll try to do that.' But, I say, negotiation is always a real will to make a deal. The priorities of sustainability, social justice, equality, economic development and employment are not an obstacle; on the contrary, they are also the priorities of the Government. Mr Martínez, the priorities I have heard in your speech – I repeat – are priorities of the Government. We share objectives on issues such as the ecological transition, building a socially and territorially balanced and equal country, working against precarious employment. There are great coincidences in peace and coexistence, migration or development cooperation. The draft Budgets will contain these issues, I have cited them as one of the priorities. In any case, there is room for negotiation. We only ask for realism and responsibility for the delicate situation we live in. And, Mr. Alonso, for you too, the doors – I repeat – are open. The political circumstances in the state, Mr Alonso, have changed, but in Euskadi we remain in the same disposition as we had when we were able to agree on the 2018 Budgets. And I invite you to analyse the priorities and budget headings with an open attitude, without introducing extra-budgetary constraints, as in the previous year, which put you a priori. We are aware of economic uncertainties. The challenge is to maintain a responsible attitude and contribute to generating more quality employment. Are we in trouble? Yeah. Now, the first quarter of 2013 Euskadi was in recession, and we have been in recession for five years, I insist, five consecutive years of growth and we keep the forecasts announced for this year and next; we keep the forecasts, being alert to everything that is happening in our context, but we keep the forecasts for this year and next: 2.3% for this year and 2% for next year. Six years ago (September 2013), there were 866,000 people contributing to Social Security. Today there are 956,000, 90,000 more people working and contributing, and we are advancing employment. How many times have you heard me say "employment to employment" and talk about trends and saw teeth, peaks and valleys. I have not denied the context of uncertainty and instability. It can affect us. I affirm that we are prepared and that joining forces is the responsible attitude to this scenario. No complacency, I've been talking about self-requirement. And I do not hide the problems; on the contrary, I follow them closely. I repeat what I said this morning, the problems and needs to which we are trying to respond. Problems of precarious employment, especially among young people, mentioned above; difficulties in enterprises and sectors of activity, also mentioned by Mr Hernández; still high levels of poverty, which have also been mentioned in various interventions; difficulties in the social and labour integration of migrants, which have also been mentioned; greenhouse gas emissions; difficulties in investing in innovation in many companies, which have also been mentioned in terms of research – I think that was also meant to be innovation –; strengthening primary care; reversing the low birth rates, which have also been mentioned; a territorial gap in regions that have suffered from the economic crisis; or the scourge of sexist violence, which has also been mentioned. These are issues that I mentioned in my speech this morning. These are problems that we know closely, which will continue to focus our attention. And we have a long way to go, yes, and before it, self-requirement, starting with oneself. I'll deliver in seven different directions from the spokesman. Lehen kritika Gobernuaren buruzkoa jars yes. There is talk of a lack of leadership, of safety, of letting us go, of a failed legislature – Mr Alonso said in his speech. I deny the biggest: Euskadi is much better than at the beginning of the legislature. I have quoted nothing more and nothing less than the 170 most outstanding initiatives in government action: zero deficit, 10% unemployment, we have 100 points out of 100 in international transparency. This year Financial Times I repeat, they do not confuse the daily laboriousness of the ant, to which I refer in this morning's session also, with the repetitive singing of the cigarette in the media. I bet on responsibility and seriousness in government action, day by day. My commitment is collaboration and joint work. We will continue to defend Euskadi's interest. I want the best for Euskadi, the best, and I also put my utmost effort into sectoral policies to do so. Euskadi is today our guarantee of the future. We have industrial policy, quality public services, social policy; we have challenges with a shared vision and plan of action. Euskadi has a future, and I suggest you join this collective future. The lack of action by the Government in this last course has therefore been criticized. Mr Alonso, I invite you to enter the website of Irekia and you will be able to follow up on each and every initiative of the Government. You will find, for example, the 61 most relevant proceedings of the month of July, 61 of the month of July. I will mention only a dozen of the 61: creation of a public-private society to promote renewable energy projects; new Hazinnova programme to encourage non-technological innovation in small enterprises; three new funds to support the rooting and development of Basque companies; draft laws on the conservation of natural heritage and environmental administration; presentation at the United Nations of the Euskadi Sustainable Bonds; conclusion of the Guipuzcoan section of the Basque Y; approval of the territorial planning guidelines; decree establishing the obligation to rent the declared uninhabited flats; expansion and reform project of the Bilbao Museum of Fine Arts; Culture Plan 2019-2022; report of mortal victims during the Civil War and Francoism; meeting with the three general deputies to share challenges and strategies for the future as a country. I have cited only the 12 most outstanding performances of last July. This is a government in action. The second review, both Podemos and Popular Party (the state of astronomy and employment). The job is our priority. Our government was also a program in the field of jobs and economic recovery, and we're developing a scope program. Target is to be unemployment in this legislation Restricting down to 10% and getting it. The Prefect has been mentioned by several spokesman, and we are quite agreed, it must be improved, the provisional work must be reduced, and the conditions of work must be improved. Okay, but I can't fix this problem by myself. The responsibility is also the most economical and social cause, as well as the collective negotiation. Improving the quality of employment is a country objective, not just of the Government. We're moving on. We have institutionalized the Social Dialogue Bureau; it is the framework for improving the quality of employment, addressing the wage gap or increasing inspections to prevent fraud, always from dialogue and agreement. Another review: the state and public services of society. And even in this case, the Popular Party has had one of its first spokesman's remarks. "person goal," our first compromise is to guarantee social policies. In this maintenance of social policy, Euskakia is a clean refractory bureau. We've been spending more and more money for social expense every year, even this year and next year we'll use more than $78 billion euros in this area, more than ever. Our income guarantee income model, for example, is a reference. And not because I say so; I dare to use words published on July 31 in an interview with Mr Ararteko: "RGI is the envy of other communities." There is no comparable model in the state, it is a reference in Europe. We will not accept any attacks on the Basque model of social cohesion. Now, like any system, it's perfectable. We are the first to raise the need to adapt and improve it, and we have made a concrete proposal to this Parliament. A proposal which has also been requested by a number of parliamentary groups not to be taken into consideration or not to be put forward in this Parliament, leaving it to the rightful timetables. Our aim is to prevent the situation of social marginalization among certain groups from being chronicled and to facilitate their integration into the labour market. Our aim is to ensure the proper use of social assistance to reach those who need it most. We are strengthening inspection and control mechanisms to prevent the possible misuse of aid. Control is permanent. Another topic mentioned: they say there is more equality in society. Compared to the state, and even to Europe, Euskadi is a well-balanced society. The disease of poverty is smaller in Basque Europe than in Europe. Is he poor? Yes, I've said it in the morning, but less than in Europe. Is that more to be done? Yeah, but you have to accept what you've done in the decades. For example, the Euskadi European Gini Index ranks among the six least unequal European countries. The serious poverty in Euskadi is of the 5.1% and the European average is 6%. In Euskadi, people at risk of serious poverty have the guarantee of the Basque system of social protection, not only of the Government, of all public institutions and in collaboration with the third sector. Referring to income guarantee income earners, for example, not because we say so, today a means of communication reflected the lower number of recipients or applicants of income guarantee income aid. Something will have to do with what social cohesion we are working on and trying to achieve. Euskadi, with 3,242 euros, is the community with the most social expenditure per inhabitant; it is a data of the State Association of Directors and Managers in Social Services. The European Union has published the study on social cohesion from 2014 to 2018. Of a total of 281 European regions, 38 have improved significantly in social cohesion; there are only three in the State, and one is Euskadi. And Euskadi, among the 38 who have improved significantly in Europe, is at the top. Society contract for migration, both Podemos and Popular Party quotes in different senses. We have proposed a social agreement for migration because we know that it is necessary to provide a shared response. We demand an engagement to give the humanitarian response to the challenge of migration, and we offer it. It is a proposal for consensus, in positive, without extremism, with discretion, without demagoguery, since the agreement, without confrontation. A proposal that connects with the spirit of solidarity and openness of our people. We are working towards full political, institutional and social support. Pensions have been cited. We are making an effort with retired people who most need it: income guarantee income to supplement pensions, aid against energy poverty, social emergency aid, supplementary housing benefit, compensation to the co-payer... Within the framework of our competences, with realism and responsibility, we support those who need it most and we defend the guarantee of the public pension system. In fact, we call for the management of the economic regime, Mr Alonso, of the economic and social security regime, as a priority of our programme, included in the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. I invite us to do it together. Pensions, probably –in addition to the situation affecting the whole Spanish State with regard to pensions, it is certain that pensions will be better guaranteed if they are managed here. I recognise the imbalance in the system between contributors and pension expenditure throughout the State, Mr Alonso. In Euskadi too, in Euskadi too. And this is a general problem, not a particular one of Euskadi. The Toledo Pact has been the framework for work and space for consensus, and it is a priority for starting up its work and ensuring the viability of the system. Some parliamentary group representing also in the Congress of Deputies or some parliamentary groups would also have to explain why it was not possible to agree on the conclusions of the Toledo Pact in the spring of this year in the Congress of Deputies. The young man's problems have been mentioned. We are well acquainted with difficulties and obstacles, and we have three ways of default: Formization, high-quality employment, and housing. And in this, both Podemos and EH Collect have made references and received them. We have a program to encourage young people's job options. In all, we're engaged to offer a first chance to 20,000 kids, and we're doing it. We know we have a lot to do. We know that the quality of contracts should be improved. We know and we've accepted. Now, we'll have to agree with that, even five years ago, only five years ago, that unemployment between young people is 29% and that it's now 15 percent. It's not enough. We have a lot of ways to do this, but today is a better situation. It is said, from what I have also heard from Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, that young people do not have employment opportunities in Euskadi. Well, I am not going to refer to the data offered by universities over the past few weeks or vocational training in relation to the recruitment or employability of graduates or students leaving vocational training studies. There they are, but we should leave out the demagogy and alarmism. Look, I give you two details of the document "Youth and Emigration in Euskadi 2019", made by the Basque Youth Observatory. Since 2014, the emigration of young people, for example, has had a slow but continued decline. In 2017, according to the Eustat, in Euskadi the departure of young people between 18 and 34 years of age was 11,506 in 2017, and the entry of young people was 17,640. Positive balance, for example, of 6,134 young people. Among the main reasons for emigration, young people themselves in this study cite scholarships, internships abroad, new experiences, 53%; job search, 47%. These are the data that place the issue in its real context. From the Government we are aware of this situation and are operating with programmes for linking and retaining talent to youth return programmes, always since a practical and vital experience abroad is not necessarily negative in an increasingly global world. I believe that many of you have also been in the course openings at the three Basque universities and know how in those course openings you have also taken stock of the previous course, also in relation to Basque students abroad, and it is said with pride. Laugarren kritika: ekonomieren eta presenen zailtasunak. Companies in difficulty and disadvantaged areas. We are aware of the impact of the crisis on disadvantaged areas, especially the Left Margin, the Mining Zone, Encartaciones and Oarsoaldea. We've been acting since the collaboration. We have approved the Plan for Preferential Areas of Action, as requested by this Parliament. It envisages a comprehensive response in terms of economic recovery, housing and job opportunities. Elkarrekin Podemos has also mentioned the automotive sector. We follow very closely the problems of automotive. It is an important sector of our industry. From our expertise we are responding: Industry Plan 4.0, cluster, advanced manufacturing, renewal plans, agreements to boost innovation or dual training, or support for financing. There has also been a shift in activity and consumption, decline and stagnation. Look, despite the difficulties, industrial GDP is growing in Euskadi. Six years ago it was -1%, six years ago, and this year it will be above 1%. We are aware of world economic uncertainty, and Euskadi is not an island. We will continue to work to make the industrial sector an engine of our economy and its weight reaches 25% by 2020. We are at 24.2%, far above the European Union. We're an industrial country. Export figures reach a historical record in 2019; this year, for the third consecutive year, we hope to return to the figure of 25 billion euros in exports. It has been proposed by EH Bildu research, which also links with innovation. We are better than two years ago, but it is true, for example, in innovation, that another European region has made further progress. We have committed an annual increase of 5% in the R & D expenditure budgets, and we are doing so. We need to strengthen public investment, but above all private investment, and that which particularly affects small and medium-sized enterprises. It's not something we just say, says Innobasque, says Confebask. We are energizing the whole scientific, technological and business system of the Basque Country with the look set in 2030. Investment. Reference has also been made to investment. This year, investment – I said this morning – has grown by 14%. The last example is the commitment to sustainable investments, with EUR 100 million. They are investments in educational, health, social or environmental infrastructure. Fifth, or another review I've written about the quality of public services. And in one case, on the side of EH Collect, the health department, and above all the health department, and above all about Osacism. Look, Basque health is at the forefront of evaluation according to the 2018 and 2019 reports of the Federation for the Defense of Public Health of the State. In primary care, which has been mentioned, we have put forward 35 medium-long-term actions, and many are already under way. We have presented a new public job offer with 215 jobs. I think it is reasonable to maintain the path of direct dialogue, in order to respond to the needs that arise and that we want to resolve. Popular parties and the Podemus have proposed, and also the EH Union, the thoughts of education. What I want to remark is that we have to guarantee equity and excellence more. That we have a strong foundation and that euscal education model has been stable, and that he has dedicated good results. Now we have to take another step. He's working on a new educational law. "The foundation of the union" has been agreed upon, and I have mentioned the consent of the School Council in the morning. And here it has been agreed among the groups, especially with the unit of education. The foundation of the new law of education will be agreed. On the conflict in part of the concerted network, mentioned by the People's Party and also by EH Bildu, we are putting in place measures for the improvement of our educational system to offer a way of resolving part of the concerted network – part of the concerted network – that has the conflict. Measures: for example, wage increases approved in February for teachers in both the public and concerted networks, as reflected in the proposal for concerts approved in the Governing Council two weeks ago; increases in special education grants; approach to relocation of workers to the foreseeable decrease in classrooms as a result of the drop in the birth rate. We ask for realism and responsibility. We ask to preserve the central objective of continuity in education. There is no need to resort to strike when there are channels to resolve conflicts from dialogue and agreement. I don't want you to close your eyes in front of the public business club, no. We try to find means to solve the conflicts, and we can't question, for example, the bet that makes the public work conditions better. The conditions of contract have improved more than they have done in public administration in private sector. And with that, we are fulfilling all engagements on the offer of public work we're planning. We ask the unions that work in the public function for realism and proportionality, considering the real situation of economics and corporations. Mr. Alonso, you mentioned the Heregun program! and the programme has been called into question. I value the work done, the positive background of the Adi-Adian programme, the willingness to approach this project from as much consensus as possible and with the support of professionals in Education. We are working – and you know it well, too – on what are the necessary corrections to do what we may not explain well enough about the Heregun programme project!, and we are going to contrast the pilot project, evaluate it and continue to improve it. The mention of the Basques has been made. The results of the exams made this week about the Basque action have been introduced. And it's clear that the road is long, but we're on our way. For the last 25 years, we've been following the Basque Law's development. As we have so far, we must establish two foundations: equality and the cohesion of society. And in this way, I believe, we ought to continue, on the one hand, to extend the language of the citizens, and to increase the engagements of the public institutions. Another criticism, or another allusion that has been made: equality. The new law against equality and women may be a good instrument if it appeals to the root root of violence, i.e. to inequality. And the difference is referred to as the principal reason. The violence against women is plague in this society, and we have an engagement to destroy it. All the measures are necessary. On the other hand, in the scale of inequality, the pay-dealer has been mentioned. We have agreed to an integral strategy and an operational plan, which is fully equipped with exact measurements and budgets. They're on the block and they've got 280 million Euro investments for two years. That's going to be a priority to the project of the ancients. In this process of equality and equality between women and men, reference has also been made to the family, and let me therefore also refer to the family. The challenge of demography is fundamental and we are not making enough progress. We have an institutional agreement, a family plan. And, Mr Alonso, there is no request for help for families who have not been met. It is not enough, and it is crucial that we put families as the fundamental value of society. I have raised it as one of the challenges in the 2030 horizon, in the demographic-social transformation that we must achieve in positive. The fraud has been mentioned, and it has been mentioned by Podemos and by some means by Mrs. Irrei. Certain cases of corruption that are being tried in the courts have been cited, and in this regard I am not going to make any further comments on something that I have already written in the largest newspaper in the historical territory of Bizkaia on 1 April 2010 as an article. They can appeal to the hemeroteca: on April 1, 2010. Euskadi is not an island, I have said it on many occasions, it is not an island. People may engage in irregular proceedings and commit crimes. The difference here is the political attitude towards possible cases of corruption. In Euskadi there has been no coverage of the cases that have occurred, and the commitment of this Government and my staff – my staff – is to keep the ethical requirement at the highest level. About the 2016-2017 OPE of Osakidetza, both Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu. I say this again: we are putting all the means, with all due diligence and transparency, to complete the public offer of employment with full guarantees of equal opportunities. This is the fundamental objective. Those who have participated in this public offer of employment deserve our apologies and, above all, our commitment to ensuring equal opportunities. We have provided complete and transparent information, both to the parliamentary groups and to Ararteko and to the Committee on the Monitoring of the Public Job Supply. Osakidetza has submitted to the Office of the Prosecutor all the documentation requested, and let me highlight two facts: the mechanisms and reaction capacity of Osakidetza and, above all, the quality of the Basque Health Service. We have a health with the highest standards, which is collective heritage. As far as human rights and co-existence are concerned, we have done peace and fellowship, and we shall also fulfil the plan of Human Rights and Coats. We will maintain and increase the policy of the victim and of memory, always based on consent. I'd like to remind you of the work of the Institute in this work, which has gone on as it has been, as it has been, step by step, and we'll continue to move forward. I value it very much, and our office in this part of society of ours is to direct us by the way of consent. We're working and we'll continue to work to end the exceptional state of prison policy once and for all. And in this case, I also call the EGAGA, in the National Court of The Diary, 11/2013. It's a good model of agreement that the defendants have agreed on in the brief. In such a case, it would be necessary to employ a posciistic and practical conduct in other respects. I also hope that parliamentary forces will advance in the presentation of memory and coexistence in the necessary consensus to share a critical look at the past of terrorism and violence. EH Bildu, sincerely, must perform a self-critical review from an ethical position, not from a tactical position. Raising the bar of ethical self-requirement; do not go by the branches: killing was wrong. And that's the point. Auto-gourge. First, keep what you've made. That's what I'm asking for, and it's a priority to you, too. The Spanish Government has accepted a calendar and a plan. The Basque political and institutional system is anchored in our historical rights, Mr Alonso. It's unique. First, respect. I say this because of the worrying denial of the historical rights of the Basque territories. Mr Egibar also mentioned this in his speech. For those who want to become defenders of constitutionalism, I recall: historical rights are enshrined in the Constitution and recognized by the Constitutional Court. So far Citizens and VOX have politically denied historical rights, and it is worrying that accredited voices of the People's Party are added. That denial means breaking out of the spirit, letter and covenant between Basque society and the State. In relation to the self-government presentation, the working group announced by that date, on November 30 – reitero – by that date, by the experts who make up the working group, that their work would be completed. I appeal to maintain the aspiration to widen the deal. I insist on taking advantage of the opportunity of the moment, to focus on what unites us and to move towards a viable agreement that has an institutional path and is ratified by Basque society. Our purpose is to get more and better auto-pilots. It is absolutely necessary that a large agreement should be made; it provides a greater legitimacy towards the outside at the time of bargaining, and it would serve as a means of cohesion and a friendly co-operation in the interior of the euscal society. We need deals with vast support if we're strong as a nation. What we have to get is a self-generacy project that will deep down and expand the present and satisfy the intentions of improvement. The aim is to perform the special Euscatian auto-organization, deeper and modernizing, always looking at Europe; it is the frame we have to look at. We need broad-based agreements to strengthen ourselves as a nation. The draft self-government must represent an important step forward with regard to the current Statute, strengthening the power contained in the adequate guarantee mechanisms. We've agreed to a work method. Give me a chance to make this Euscal road. Last year the five teams began working on the appointed experts, and in the 11 months they've worked with complete care and integrity. As I said this morning, it's an effort to praise. They've shown the constructive position and in about two months they'll be presenting their work. They've gone all the way. Let's all give this Euscal road a chance. Let us all give this way a chance, and let the various parliamentary groups also give it a chance. It is not a unilateral way, it is multilateral, and, I insist, work is being done to draft agreements in accordance with the methodology agreed by this Parliament. I stand for the Basque way, which we have been exercising for decades, the progressive way that has yielded progressive results. I reiterate once again a mention of historical rights, Mr Alonso. In relation to self-government, the Statute of Autonomy, the Spanish Constitution, historical rights, I will not mention what was the foral way the parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party proposed in 1977 to debate in the Congress of Deputies and which then, following those debates, also gave rise to the first additional provision of the Constitution and its interpretation. In any case, I do want to remind you that the Spanish right was left out of the statutory pact 40 years ago, which today they want to give us lessons from that pact. And I remind you that you have done nothing to fulfill it; seven years in government and zero meetings of the Joint Transfer Commission. I will not mention the unconstitutionality appeals lodged by the Spanish Government delegation here in Euskadi. Seven years and zero meetings of the Joint Transfer Commission. And I remind you, Mr Alonso, that a year ago you denied in this debate, in this very debate, that the Statute was not complied with. He denied it. This country will have a new political pact, and we are in time to contribute, to add, to widen a stronger and deeper internal agreement. Don't stand back. Take part and sum up; and sum up taking into consideration the agreements of this House, the agreements of this House also in relation to the non-compliance with the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. On the other hand, it could be said that its new foralism seeks to weaken the Basque institutional system. That is my interpretation of what I have read about what was the convention of the People's Party of the Basque Country. It gives me the impression that what is intended is precisely the weakening of the Basque institutional system. Its proposal is to reduce income, reduce contributions to the Basque Government; therefore, its proposal limits the ability to provide essential services such as education, health, safety, social protection or economic recovery, industry, innovation or employment policies. Mr Alonso, when the Statute was adopted, historical rights were renewed, they were renewed, Mr Alonso. And the reservation clause was also contemplated, and I believe they make an interpretation of historical provincialist, not outlawist rights. On the other hand, I do not share, Mr Alonso, your neoliberal idea, your approach to weakening public policies, which you also referred to in your speech. I believe that a more unjust society is one that would be derived from that policy which you propose and which is in conflict with my humanist commitment and the commitment to cohesion and social justice. It gives the impression, with this political philosophy, that its center is the market; mine, the person. Finally, you're on the 1030th floor and the future horizon. year (s). We know the situation of Euskadi. We need them. We know what challenges are coming, and what power we have to face them. Our government is based on conversation and agreement. The program of government is our commitment to society, the social priority, to guarantee the quality of public services, and to get more employment, to promote growth and to increase more equity. We have to work in the neighborhood. Looking to the future, we must preserve clear columns, manage them carefully, secure stability, and increase competition, always the person's end. That's our model, and to-day I'd like to thank everybody in the Basque Games for my work and the loyalty I showed them. It's a group that works together for one program. Thank you. Our gratitude, also, to the two sects that always offer protection and support to us, to the Jeltzacist and the Social Party of the Basque Party. We are extremely grateful for the effort of agreement in the time of dissociation, and the commitment we have shown. Faced with the doubts that someone seems to have regarding the election call, my message to Basque society is of serenity and constancy. We are not going to be dragged away by permanent political tension. The Basque Government will apply constancy, perseverance, in order to maintain a framework of understanding and collaboration; serenity and constancy for the fulfilment of commitments will remain the attitude of our Government. Do, therefore, whoever wants to do them, the cabals on electoral advances or what they think, but, of course, I demonstrate what is my interpretation of what we have ahead of us and the serenity and constancy that we will apply to the implementation of the commitments. I conclude by recognizing one reality: we continue to face many challenges as a Government and as a society. I said it in the morning, and I repeat it: we have problems to solve and needs to attend to. However, I have full confidence in our capacities as a country. Basque society has been able to meet the challenges, and has done so with humility, but with efficiency and success. Today we have a country based on values and self-governing that preserves its institutional and social heritage in a global world and in a complex environment. A cohesive and forward-looking country, competitive and ambitious. Basque society, through its institutions, its companies, its professionals, its associations, has found its space in the world, and this decade is the best example of Basque resilience. Euskadi is the coat of arms of Basques and Basques. A guarantee against the weather, uncertainty and instability of the environment. Euskadi is moving forward, we are taking steps together to face the challenges and transformations that are facing us on the global stage. Euskadi is our shield and our shared project, it is our common good. The Basque society demands a new, strict, transparent, and effective method of conducting politics. That is to say, a program that meets a certain commitment. This is our model. We're doing well on our way to fulfill our goals: Helps you create jobs options and unemployment To descend below 10%; the wealth of each citizen reaches 125% of the average of Europe; to secure public services to each person, and to help him especially among those who most require it. They're not slow targets. We'll get them through the neighborhood. We see the future of Euskadi more clearly. Let's get back to work and build a better future in the neighborhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lehendakari, the only one here who does cabals about that election is you. We weren't talking to him about that. We thought he had so many things to do, he was going to keep working. The explanation has been strange and ambiguous, like all the explanations it is customary to give. Let's talk, then, about the deep ideological problems that separate you from me. He has quoted some, but they are much deeper. I explained it to him last time: I am not a nationalist. I am a humanist, and we can share the vision from Christian humanism. But we're liberals. Sure! We believe that people can be allowed to do things. If the person is the centre of the objective and the centre of political action, the person must be able to act. So what happens in the Basque Country? Does the person have the freedom to act? Man, if it's not PNV, as you say, it's self-excluded. That you want to invest in the Basque Country? You can come to invest in the Basque Country, already from the PNV you will be told which person you have to go with to make the investment easier. Yes, this is the reality that people have every day. And I say: why do you put barriers, obsessions of control? They want to control everything. Why don't they open up, why don't they let people actually have more initiative? That does not have to go into jeopardy of the guarantee of public services or the protection of health, of the rights of the people. Not at all. Why don't we go on that trend? And why don't we reform in that direction? That's what the People's Party wants. It is very rare for you that a person who is not of the left, in the Basque Country, is not of the PNV. Well, there are people like that. Yeah, yeah, there's people like that. It makes him very rare, because he doesn't tell others anything about self-exclusion, he sees them out. He's just telling us. Well, look, there are people who are not a nationalist in the Basque Country and who want an open society and a liberal society. And we have constantly tried to seek agreements with you to try to push government action in that direction, with very little success. We have very little success in that. It is true that we have favoured the taxation of our companies so that they do not have a competitive disadvantage. But now, when we try to improve the situation of families, give more opportunities of initiative, we hit a wall, we hit a wall. And here's what there is. You don't want to do that policy anymore. No wonder, they've changed partners. In Madrid they enthusiastically supported a budget of PSOE and We can that is that we do not share. These are other policies. So, today I found it consistent on your part that I do the winks to Lander Martínez. Who was going to tell him! You showed up at the election saying, "Vote to the PNV because, if not, the Podemos come"... [[Barres]] And we finish the legislature by pleading with Podemos, saying to Podemos, "The budget I have presented, what it responds to is your priorities." What things! That is indeed a novation and it is an evolution that you have suffered over these years, because we started one way and now we have finished another. Why do we start one way? Mr Egibar explains this to us: because to what has a deer fear the PNV is to that alliance of which Mr Egibar spoke, of Bildu with Podemos and with the Socialist Party, of which we are – I assure you – self-excluded, we will never get involved in such operations. You say of the Spanish right – I don't know what you call the Spanish right – that you were against the Statute, you say. I remember that in the year 77 a party called the Union of Democratic Center won the elections, and, look, if he had added his votes to those of the People's Alliance, he would have had an absolute majority. However, he decided to do something else, decided that an agreement could not be built that way, with a majority like that, but that he had to make an agreement with the Socialist Party, with the Communist Party of Spain, which had to make an agreement with the nationalist parties in the House to create something that was above and larger. That's what they did. That is what gave rise to the Constitution that you did not support. It is curious, because the wording of the first additional provision, which is going to be a stone of contention, apparently, because you manipulate it and want to manipulate it to destroy it, so the initial wording was voted by Arzalluz in the committee. Yeah. Then there was an instruction from Carlos Garaikoetxea that that was not voted and that that could not be approved. Now you are excited about the first additional provision, but you did not vote for it. In fact, they said they abstained from the Constitution because they didn't like the way it looked. And now we discover that historical rights – you said – are no longer of the outside territories. Are you going to take the Economic Concert from the provinces? They're not new, are they? The economic concerts are from the provinces. I already reminded you this morning that there was someone who did take the Economic Concert from the provinces. So, the roles that you are preparing and that you want to liquidate the foral nature and the foral autonomy of the Basque Country, and even your own criticism of the proposal that we have put forward to improve the financing of the parliaments because it has been taking over for a long time a social expenditure that continues to grow as a result of our demographic problem... Of course we have said that the funding of the Parliament should be improved! And of course we want a more decentralized model in the Basque Country! You criticize me for that. You, what you want is to crawl with all the skills and make an inviable centralism within the Basque Country and also take away from them what is yours and which no one has taken away from you, which the Constitution recognizes and which are your historical rights. They are from the provinces, yes, they are from the outlying territories: Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. They are not from the Basque Government and the Basque Government cannot remove them. You can't take them off, you can't call on the Basque people to take away what is theirs, and we'll try not to. We are talking in this committee of experts, where there is an expert who is more expert than the others because he is an active politician and who is the rapporteur, who seems to me very well, and who will present his text... We are beginning to talk about very disturbing things, indeed, about the liquidation of the historical rights of the outlying territories, about the establishment of what you call a political concert... But I will tell you clearly: there is no more political concert here than the Statute of Gernika. You can change the Statute of Gernika, you can make a statute of autonomy, but there is no more way to agree politically than that of the Statute of Autonomy, because that is to respect the Constitution, and there are no shortcuts and there are no paths off that path, that is what there is. And everything else is going to lead us to a grudge and a collision that you have the responsibility to avoid. During these years, you have truly been appreciated for what you did not do. In Madrid, I don't know if you know what you're doing, and I don't say you don't do things. He has read me the July agenda; for I know that a lehendakari is very busy and you are not vague at all. I mean, I know it doesn't stop. I'm not saying I'm not in all those programs and all the plans you've read to us. But he has been greatly appreciated for not doing something, which is leading this country to a sham like the one in Catalonia. And that's what I'm asking you to do, not to take us to a grudge, that we don't need to make that path, to argue with Egibar. He says, "You have differences within your party." "I have judgment and I defend it," Egibar told me. [[Barres]] Or that Egibar go out and explain to us whether he agrees with you, because one wants to broaden the base and the other has solemnly promised to those on this side that the proposal that is made will be respectful of the bases that they approved, which was basically the right to self-determination. So, these people act coherently and you act divergingly, but in the same parliamentary session. It could also be done on different days, but at the same parliamentary meeting; therefore, please agree. But me, what I'm asking you to do is take care of those things and you keep your reputation that he was a measured man who wasn't going to throw himself into strange things. Look, we, in the end – that was hard – had to self-exclude Ibarretxe in his day, we put Patxi López. Then you say that you had no choice but to exclude Rajoy, but do not exclude yourself from the coexistence that we have and guarantee us the Constitution, the balance, in short, our frameworks of coexistence. I think that would be very negative for everyone. I don't know what we're gonna do. I'm going to have to meet with Mr. Lander Martínez, see if we can reach an agreement, because apparently the Budgets are designed for Podemos and the PP. And you've gotten into a vericue, but I imagine it's his turn this year. I put my conditions, I no longer talk about the respect we have, that we have little respect. I'm not saying your person. Your party has very little respect for us. But first it was the PP, and with the PP it was approved the renewal of the Economic Concert. You have complained very bitterly about the PP governments, but this was approved, and the Cup, which was very difficult, was resolved, and we did a tax reform here and we approved the Budgets. Look, that's what this legislature has done, that's what this legislature has done, which is most important from a political point of view. Then it was with EH Bildu last year. They made a scene in the media, broke the issue in the same place, and this year they don't seem to want to try. And now it's Mr. Martinez. Mr. Martinez, good luck! [[Barres]] I don't know, really, this seems surprising to me, but this has been the strategy, every year it was one. Me at first, then self-exclusion, then EH Bildu, now they may also self-exclusion, and now it's up to you, Mr. Martinez. Good luck, and go ahead, for Euskadi! [[Barres]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u19	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u20	Good afternoon. The Socialist Group has come to this House today with the intention of telling them that we intend to take advantage of the time we have left in the legislature to solve the problems we have and to comply with the government programme, and they will not find us in rioting or entanglement. Therefore, it is our utmost interest to carry out that Government programme, which is nothing other than the programme that will address the concerns and problems of simple people, namely employment, the quality of employment, the quality of wages, the lack of equality of women and the quality and modernization of our public services. In short, prepare the country for the challenges. What surprised me this afternoon is that on this threshold where we are from a new world, from a new era where we are going to revolutionize until our most intimate life, some parties and groups want to build it with the bricks of the 19th century. Mr Lehendakari, you know of our clear political will to agree on reform and modernization of self-government. You asked what was the difference between the political concert and the Economic Concert. I explained it to you in my first round, but I repeat: it is a confederal proposal. I believe that we share some of the objectives, which are no more than the shielding of competences, and, therefore, I invite you to join us in a joint strategy to achieve those shared objectives in a viable and objective way, because otherwise it would be waste time and waste time in the paper. And, if Euskadi is what it is today, it is because some, like the Socialists, have always been in building a country, in making agreements to build what today's Euskadi is. And it didn't matter if we were in the government or the opposition and it didn't matter who ruled. We share here, in this House, the construction of the Ertzaintza, of the public body, of the Public Health Service (of Osakidetza), of the Housing Act, of the Basque public school..., of what the Basque self-government does and what makes our citizens live better. Socialist compromise has always been the same, both from the opposition and from the government. So we managed to agree on the Statute of Autonomy and so we built the social Euskadi that we enjoy today. And in all those agreements we have been the Socialists. If you have heard me in this plenary in the last five years that I have been intervening in it, you will always have heard me talk about the political situation and governability in Spain, whether it was Rajoy or Sánchez, whether there were elections or not. Always. And in this very plenary, in this very sitting, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Alonso and some other speakers have spoken about what they think about the governability of Spain, and so have I. Like others, it doesn't matter who rules in Spain, but, of course, it doesn't matter to me, and that can't be called electoralism. And, Mr Egibar, I do not want to interrupt the interesting dispute you have with Euskal Herria Bildu, but you, who reproach Bildu for following a union at foot together, I would like to remind him that that union in 1997 decreed the death of the Statute of Gernika and a year later the death of the Statute in Estella was signed. We took care that that didn't happen. We rescue the Statute and rescue the dialogue between different people. Recognize me that we are much better now, fortunately, although truly, if Spain does not like, listen, tell Basque citizenship clearly, that the PNV asks the vote to leave Spain, and I believe that all citizens will thank them for their sincerity. And, Mr Alonso, you are not here, but, well, I am addressing the representatives of the People's Party and I hope they will pass it on to you. The Socialists are in the defence of the Gernika Statute and in the reform of the Statute for its modernization because, in the end, we want it to be useful to the Basque citizens. And we defend the Statute and we defend the Constitution, and the Statute is part of the Constitution. And what seems to me to be indecency is that you, who have suffered the trenches like us, again build trenches in this country, excluding Socialists from being constitutionalists, from defending the Constitution. I thought, indeed, that you had evolved as a right to be a constitutional right, but in sight you have not. And I will demand the utmost respect from a party that voted yes to the Constitution, yes to the Statute of Autonomy and yes to the great pacts that have built today's Euskadi, which you and your party cannot say the same. And when you have been questioned, the Socialists have come out in their defense; not like you, who have not done the same: you have given wings to infamy and in the end you have ended up testing your own medicine, unfortunately. But what I want to tell you is that you do politics, defend your ideas, disagree, as Mr Alonso has done in this rostrum, but do not use the pain of the victims. We have all been victims, you and us, but we do not brag about the voice of any victim, because the victims are very plural. So do politics, don't resurrect ETA, because fortunately we beat her. And, Mrs Iriarte, in order not to be interested in Spain, you have given Spain a good time in your speech. Bakarrik hiru gauza dinghy. You are well aware of the Socialist Party's willingness to agree with you on a number of specific issues in this Parliament. We do so even at the cost of being insulted in the rest of Spain. We don't care, we care about the deals. But, truly, if last year the budgetary arrangements with you were not closed it was because you remained in your thirteen, in the same positions from the beginning, principle, without moving at all, and that is absolutely tics of the past. Which is also a bit satisfying, because it seems that the disagreement gene also nests in Euskadi, not only in Spain, as some say. And in self-government, then, we can certainly agree on many things, I am sure, and we have dealt with it in the paper on many occasions, but they will never find us in the break-up of coexistence, in the break-up of legality, in the breakdown of plurality or in the categorization of citizens according to their identity. And you know, Mrs Iriarte, and many of the members of your group know that we are hoping that they will make a statement on a fundamental ethical principle, which is that it should never have been killed, kidnapped, or extorted, either in the name of a political idea or for a reason of State. Everyone else is waiting for you to make that statement, because that would be historic. And we're on our way. There's still a year left in the legislature, so whenever you want, we'll be ready. And, Mr. Martinez, that would be historic. Because we must not abuse the historical qualification, which you sometimes do, and you forget it because until you have come to Parliament, well, there have been other legislatures and in this Parliament there have been many very important issues which, as I mentioned at the beginning, have illuminated today's Euskadi. I say this mainly because of the agreement you signed two weeks ago with EH Bildu on the law to study Basque, and you called it agreement between different and historical agreement between different. Well, it seems to me particularly exaggerated, and, above all, I think it gives wings to an abertzale left that, just in the agreement that was historic for this country in relation to the Basque, which was the Law of 82, the abertzale left did not get wet – and had seats in this Parliament, eh?–, did not get involved in that law. And that law, along with the Basque Public School Act and the integration of the Ikastolas into the Basque Public School Act, has allowed us today to have more people in Euskadi euskaldun than ever before in history. And it has allowed you or my children, for example, to have been able to study in Basque at school. That's historic, that's a commitment. And that was revolutionary. And, of course, my group and I recognize that there is a long way to go. Of course I do, of course I do! But, man, I would give you "a thought," Mr. Martínez, gentlemen of Elkarrekin Podemos, if you are interested in giving so much prominence to an abertzale left that it has never wet itself in the progress with this country and that it is now trying to respond to its own history. And then they accuse us of being crutches, and I, the truth is, I'm very proud to be crutches of Basque society, to keep him from going down the ravine. You will have to explain why they are using the seats that Basque citizenship granted them in the last elections. Because I am not going to oppose the left, but, really, you started in this Parliament by denying the left and the right, then you self-qualified yourself as the Basque left, now you say you are the useful left. Well, for the Basque and useful left, the Basque Socialist Party. I, of course, welcome you to come and do what we are doing, and I really invite you to take a risk, to get wet and to support the Budgets, which is the result of a negotiation, of course, between your group and the Government. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u22	Okay. Lehendakari, you have repeated a phrase several times in your speech: realism and responsibility. Well, from Elkarrekin We can believe that realism and responsibility, precisely, is what we have to have with the situation of the most vulnerable. And I would like to give you some evidence that there is indeed more inequality than you recognize and that the protection system is much less effective than what you want to sell us. Between 2008 and 2018, 83.7% of families who cannot cover their basic expenses increased between 2008 and 2018. This means, for example, that it is not possible to put the heating in winter or in defaults or arrears for the rental of mortgages. Out of every 100 neighbors in this country, eight have severe feeding problems or are unable to meet the cost of returning to school for their daughters and children. We talked about more than 20,000 people in 2016. There are more and more people who, even if they need it, are out of public support systems, no less than 60,618 people, and more and more people who are still in poverty reduction systems, no less than 70,348 people. Realism and responsibility is to recognize the evidence, that the gap between the two speeds of Euskadi continues to widen and that to those who go wrong or regular, it gets worse and worse. And this has a name: increasing inequality. And this inequality, I insist, is one of the reasons why Euskadi is today in worse condition to face a new economic crisis. And, of course, that today you have collected here the topics that we have been claiming since 2016 and that you use the same terms that we usually use neither turns you into Elkarrekin Podemos, of course. I give you an example: Elkarrekin Podemos led the initiative to end the wage gap that was agreed in this Parliament. The Basque Government collected the glove and published a strategy, but without the participation of trade unions, without the participation of the feminist movement and without budget. Today, there is not a single clear action that represents the Basque Government's unbridled commitment to resolving the precariousness and the gap, starting with its own home, in areas that are entirely its responsibility, such as public services. Because you have said that the fight against insecurity cannot be resolved only by the Government. I believe that, at least as far as public services are concerned, it can. Four out of 10 public service workers are temporary; in health 38%, more than 15,000; in education between 30% and 65%, by sector, more than 11,000; in the administration of the Basque Autonomous Community, 35%, more than 3,000; in EITB, more than 30%. And the loss of purchasing power of public employees remains above 14%. I believe that there is a very important field here to show us their commitment to the precarious sectors which are responsible for their government. I mean, it's not just worth buying us the challenges and the topics, but not buying us the solutions and asking for our support just for the title you wrote in the book. In a word, I think it is time for you to put on the table concrete proposals, how many resources you are going to have and what ambition it puts you. Because you told us to look at the guidelines – we look at them – and the priorities of the Budgets. But I am concerned about one thing, which is that he has also told the People's Party. And as much as I appreciate Mr. Alonso, it's obvious that if he tries to please both of you, he won't find either. But, well, in spite of everything, I would still like to raise some outstanding and urgent questions for the coming months, to give you the opportunity to demonstrate will and realism. Housing. The housing decree committed to this Parliament and to citizenship requires progress already in the regulation of rental prices; it continues to stand still, and the recognition of the right to housing, which is void by inaction. Equality law. They pledged to present it in the last quarter of 2018. A year later, you have not yet presented it in this Parliament, and you say that you are going to present it in December. Do you want an express procedure for such an important law? Because at this stage they will present it in the last part of the legislature. So, if you want agreements, why have you not yet opened the dialogue with the parliamentary groups? Or what are they waiting for? I invite you to do it. The climate change law. Our level of demand and ambition will be the one that marks the scientific community for action against climate change to be effective. It is what right now young people from all over the world are claiming on the streets on a day of global mobilization. From what should be done in Euskadi in order to fulfil what science establishes as necessary to what it includes in its preliminary draft law there is a long stretch that his Government has to go through. And I will also speak, because Mrs Mendia has referred to the law presented by Euskal Herria Bildu on the right to learning of Basque, of the agreement we have reached. It does seem to me historic an agreement in which it is possible to draft a law that guarantees the free learning of Basque up to the C1, which guarantees that all people, regardless of their purchasing power, regardless of their social status, will be able to learn Basque and will be able to learn Basque up to a level such as the one necessary to access different levels of the Administration or as the one requested in many works, the C1. I am not going to get into that much because it is many hours that we have spent discussing this subject, but I do believe that Mrs Mendia and I must live in different political realities when assessing our action, but I will not get into that much either. Elkarrekin Podemos has been able to read and advance the challenges of society, succeeding in putting on the government's agenda issues that nobody talked about in 2016, and we will be able to put on the table the keys necessary for our productive model to be exemplary in the fight against climate change, dignity in working conditions, equality between women and men, as well as technological innovation and local and social roots. We are faced with a situation of exceptionality due to political uncertainty and economic risks. We were born to defend people from the consequences of the previous economic crisis, and we are going to make sure that these social dramas do not happen again in this coming crisis. We want to protect Euskadi, we want to protect their families, we want to protect their businesses. What is your will, Mr. Lehendakari? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u23	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Unite the EH team as representative. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u24	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good evening, Mr. Urkullu. It's not easy to know who to answer, sometimes Mr. Urkullu or Mr. Egibar. Mr. Egibar, don't get involved, in any case, it's not the government that has to control the opposition. You told me about the observatory last year, and that's another way to show the data. I didn't deny Mr. Urkullu much of the facts he gave me, and I didn't want to do anything about a catastrophic vision of the situation. What I'm saying is that when we take a photo, things must appear in that photograph, and that we must show where our weaknesses are, because we'll do a diagnosis much more efficiently in order to take what grade this town needs. I think that's the way it is. And it's just, like, a little bit of data on the table. I think that this contrast is important, as I think it is important, instead of looking at Spain, though you have told me today that I have been looking at many of my intentions in paranoia, in spite of everything, in order to look at Europe. And we are far from working, as I have said before, in idleness, even in long-continued unemployment, and in other matters. And I think it ought to be our reference to the countries of Europe, which are better than we, than those which are worse in Spain. The same may be said of education, of inquiry, and of all other matters. And that's what I've been trying to do. I think, moreover, that this exercise is to be done, and that it is necessary to do so, and rather to examine the proposition which I have made the last, and the work which I have made last; so that is what I would like to say first and once. Urkullu jauna, aklaratzea nahiko nuke kontzertu politicokoaz ari zarenean zer esaten duzun: Is political conviction the guarantee of a bilateral relationship based on respect and equality of the parties or is it not? Because we have adopted in this Parliament an agreement in which we propose a different relationship with the State, a bilateral relationship with effective guarantees for it to be bilateral, an agreement with the State, and an agreement in which the right to decide can also have a place and a way of being carried out, and that is what this Parliament has agreed. That's what this parliament has agreed to, and we'll see what experts do. In any case, they have a very clear commission, which is that they must receive the principles and principles which this parliament has received. I don't know if you misunderstood me or what I said wrong. I should like to have the most extensive part of the bargain, if you don't doubt it. I said today, and I said, the moment we closed the deal. I always said that, and don't hesitate. All you have to do is look at the Heller, you wrote in that article exactly as I ought to do with you, and this is the same. And I don't know, sometimes I wonder if you would like us to be at the other end, saying we don't want to make a deal. We want to make an agreement, but I've asked two questions. The arrangement is everything at the moment: Of the Jeltzan Party, Basque People, and together Podemos, part of it. What's the one thing that's ready to take away the Jelt Party? Perhaps you must answer me, Mr. Egibar: What is the meaning of the fact that the Jestri of the Eural Party is more extensive? And one more question, which I have also asked the President, and which thou wilt now answer: What text do you think the state would now accept? These are the two questions which I find very important. But you know very well, Mr. Egibar, that the Basque Country has always been gathering, make fun of her, and that's the way she is, baby, that she's always been trying to make that deal as wide as possible and as hard as she can. And in that sense, I say to Podemos that there is a great distance between him and his colleagues in Catalonia, in order to make a large proposal for a feminist and confelist republic. And, Mrs. Mountain, you too have a chance to make a match for so many things. The fact is that the union parties put a veto about a subject, and so it is; and moreover, as you have the power of the state, this veto is always set on, and this veto always appears. I claim to respect the rights of all the victims and prisoners, and I have also said that I do not want to make a mere relatation. And I'm saying that we want to act positively because we want to act as builders and we don't want this process to be anyone else. On the first day I descended to this attribute, I think it was my answer to Monsieur Egibar, that I said that at the first time that life and peace were so important to us, that I refused to be allowed to enter into any sept and to enter into the world, and to use it for competition, and I do not think the same is often the case. I, Mr. lehendakari, respect from above your story, absolutely from above down respect your story. But I ask you for the possibility that there will be other accounts, because, probably, the coexistence will also be that different stories coexist, and we will have to advance in the coexistence of this country, in the coexistence of different stories, with which we will sometimes agree and in others we will not agree. Creo que tenemos mucho la que que hacer para que convencia siga avanzido. You yourself have said that you have acted with the Spanish Government and with France in order to execute the rights of the prisoners. France seems to have listened to him, not so much to Spain. I give you my hand, let us make a bargain on this subject, and let us put ourselves to work, because it seems to me that we shall certainly take great steps in the whole course of our life if we go on in this way. You told me I've been watching, Mr. Egibar, and besides what sort of agreements we have to make and which we don't have to do. I'm telling you, as I said before, the Basque Country is ready for the peace agreement. Not only that: We made deals. We made deals. Now you want us to make deals in the socioconomic area. Well, okay, but just admit to me that we made deals in other parts, or, well, well... And I must tell you, in the sooconomic field, that we have recalled some things: We have brought a thousand proposals to improve the life of the people, and have advanced a score of times with the voice of the Jestle Party, but sometimes with the lock; In progressive policy of social justice, not only proposals to reform commerce, but also a law in favor of social employment, and at the lowest salary of 1,200 euros... We've even had a lot of locking up on the Jestric Party. So we need both sides of agreement, we always have to relax. "And you also repent, and show me that you have this desire to make an agreement, and that you will also do with us this sodicomical agreement, Mr. Egibar." Anyway, you made me a joke with ELA. Well, there are so many jokes about Confebask and so on... [[Barres]] Let's leave the moments of jokes for another time, Mr. Egibar, because you know it's not like that, anyway. As I have said in my first speech, I believe this people deserves to advance, and I think we ought to advance amongst ourselves. For this reason I have done a work of composition, which seems important to me, as I have said before, to be important to us, but with several other operators of this country, to make a complete diagnosis, and to see how, having this whole diagnosis, we must proceed. I have already said that I think we ought to make a peace of state, a compact of state, knowing that we are not all of us, or that everything which we call the Basque State will not be. But I think that's exactly what it is, without looking at anything. This is the only way to advance, without looking at this Spain which I have said so often. And our hand is out of this moment. I believe that two models will henceforth be found in Europe, and that in Europe there will be a pattern which will be given to the people, as in Scotland or Ireland, and there may be other examples which will not be able to give them the word and the determination of the people. I believe that there is a time in Europe for dealing with Scotland, Catalonia, with Ireland, with so many nations of which we have the same intention, to make democratic majoritys, and to work... Do you look, Mr. Urkullu, or how? Yeah. Well, I think there's a time for us to do it together, because we have the ability to do it. We try, too, and I believe these democratic majoritys can lead us elsewhere. The Basque People's hand, as I said before, is extended. We're here and we're ready. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. And finally, the Eubertians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u26	I think we ought at least to agree on something about the relatoire. I think, at least, at present, that we all agree together at the time of defending all human rights, don't we? Now, if the pattern itself is useful to the future from now on, it must also serve to examine the past. I mean, the past can't be changed, but if we rely on the respect of all human rights, let's check out what happened in these decades. And it doesn't have to be just statistical, these actions have to be qualified. There's a base column for the agreement. To give us a clue again. Yes, yes, all, all. And we're going to have to do our own self-criticism. Some of them did it. I have known some of my party who have committed self-critics about it, begin with Mr. Juan Atucha, and go on with other members who have had political responsibility. I am still listening to a few words, either from you or from different institutions. When I mentioned the observatory... I mean, it's not that you're collecting the data, but that you're taking politics like a observatory. And we should be passing, I don't know if we should ask the Euscaldi for permission from Bing's Zupiri, but for a prison. There are wet spots, but we need to get wet. And it seems that, if we share all this or at least all, some of us will think, "Come on, and that's all we have left to do, in this other main column, to give PNV a reason, and in the political region or axis, history rights, democratic grounds, self-organism, and at least all of them." "I don't know. And that's what ELA thinks, ELA. ELA is publicly pressing it, and, I think, even in private. But, well, that's what I mean. And you say, "You answer because the president no longer has the word: Where are the limitations? "I don't know. I said in my intervention: You're asking me where the political limits are, not just the young in Alsatsu, especially the Catalonia? There are highly remarkable political boundaries in the state, 155, and on the Flat Party, on the Social Party, at the Social Party and at Ciudadans, and I think that Podemos did not, although Sánchezi had confessed to him, "Listen, what you say about Catalonia, ameoto." That's the borders. Hence I say that our project, which we can accomplish in common, must be established in the State by new political and democratic principles of improvement. I don't know what he had, our political project, with the interpretation given to the current frame, does not fit, that of the Journal Party. I don't know if yours can fit, not ours. And what we see is, if we succeed in a majority by the hand of this legislature, or there are new democratic grounds in the state or in the country. So that's where the borders are. How does that change? How does it change? Now, when we have the opportunity, of course, and for that purpose his delegation at Madrid will have a great share in ours and the rest of us, how we use this majority. Baina Idoia Mendiak berak emam du sontzuna. Tell me about Lizarra, twice in Lizarra, there we have been the Socialists. Here, texts, there have been many; if you want, I can pass it on to you. Last time I passed to a leader he told me he had prescribed it, it was Rodolfo Ares, and it was the texts of Loiola, the texts of Loiola... Have they prescribed it? Well, bada, irakurri, ea zer esaten duten. Of course, this conception of what consensus is ("The consensus exists and is good if I am and the rest is division, is exclusion"), this undue patrimonyization of consensus is a right of veto. I mean, what is wrong with a democratic majority in this Parliament? It can be from the point of view of coexistence, according to you, because, of course, if you are not yourself or the Socialist Party... [[Berber]] A! Biberagarites one? Beiragaritasuna bath..., demokratikoa izan behar badu, esan nahi didazu Madrilera joan behar her? And even if you have nine parliamentarians here, the PNV 28 and the other political formations have the representation they have, taking advantage of what you have in Madrid you say "No, that, as it will not have gone, I apply the veto here". What development of the democratic principle is that? That is to say, is it not even acceptable that a democratic majority, especially if it were endorsed by an enabling consultation, does not therefore give rise to any democratic obligation for the Socialist Party to defend and respect what Basque citizens decide freely and democratically? That's the bottom line. Because we already know that 2,200,000 or 3 million Basques are never going to be more than 40 million, we already know. The question is whether apart from that viability and that path of legality arises a democratic obligation to negotiate a new consensus, a new pact of coexistence. Out of dagoena. From this point on, it has been mentioned this morning, that the President gives stability to this people, and we would like to remark it. At first I said that as soon as this law began its words were "an interview and an agreement, a political will is required." And what is clear is that this people must show strength in front of the fragility, and that's what I'm telling you-it's because in front of their weakness there is need for certainty, certainty, certain uncertainty, a kind of uncertainty, stronger leaders to get out of that, and that's what it is that gives, and to believe in our system, in our powers, self-existence, and even self-love, why not. Why? Because he has the Obligation, the social rights, economics, culturals, and political rights of all the citizens, that's the thing for you to do. We... Nine and twenty-eight, 37. At first I said that if it were a three-saup in three cells, the third cyabboga is over and we've been through it for a long time. Thirty-seven palads a minute isn't a bad rhythm, though the sandrids were only one-bog, because in that last length of his winning row he kept a row of 37. Gehiago nahi genituzke, bathe hau ez da inork irabaztea beste bat zapaltzeko; hemen trabatzerik baldin badago, if there is attachment and there is blockade, you have to untie and advance. And this is customised by the Lehendakari and his Government, as well as the Basque institutions, in which we are all; in varying degrees and proportions, but we are all. Itsutasunaren eta iluntasunaren aurrean gizarteari argitasuna eskaini behar zaio; imposizioren aurrean, before imposition, response with determination; before posture, authenticity; before thunder or thunder also originality, naturality. "Komodism"..., that some confuse stability with commodism: no, commodism is the mixture between comfort and selfishness; then, stability yes, to lead; to lead and advance this society. It is, therefore, our desire to make the decisions which this people ought to make, that resolution and constancy must be maintained. We're only 37, but we're a lot. For the last year we would like to have a part of the several parlamentary groups, the abuses of laws on the table, at least for the sake of the public, at least for the sake of the advance. It's not PNV, PSOE, the president. I don't know what the chief physician will do, but for everyone's sake. And in this case, I also think that he who takes a step in front of the necessity of a vote we are in, I believe he has what is to be won by politically, politically, because he ends by giving it to this mad force which is indispensable, and yet merit would be shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-09-20.u27	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Since we've exhausted the whole meeting line, I'll end it. It was six o'clock in the evening and forty-three.
