ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. First, before we start the subject list, we'll call our fellow Yahcov Ruiz Chico. Mr Ruiz, please. Mr. Ruiz Chico entered the room. Good morning, welcome. I just want you to know that the fourth point has been abandoned for another reason. First point in theme list: "The patrioticist and Basque Socialists, the bill of law made by parlamentary groups, the 13/2016 Law, July 28th, Turism. To decide once and for all the discussion about taking it." You have information in your documentation, the Government's criterion, and we shall therefore begin the discussion without being read. As they're on the side shift and the opposite turn, Mrs. Corcuera is on her side. Anything else? Okay. Well, Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u1	Thank you, President. Egun where we're supposed to be. The Basque Socialist parliamentary group has put forward this proposal for a law in order, from the legislative procedure and through the initiative of the parliamentary groups that allows us under the Rules of this House, to proceed to propose a legal regulation with some agility in the process, rather than to do so through a bill. And this proposed law amending the Basque Tourism Act, in this case, has a dual objective: on the one hand, to give specific treatment to the forms of tourist accommodation in rural areas by means of a rule of legal rank; to supplement, also, the treatment of the Basque Tourism Act with regard to advertising, promotion and tourist intermediation activities, in order to be able to demand responsibilities, not only to tourist enterprises, but also to the channels of intermediation. In short, this second objective seeks to extend the scope of sanctioning power to channels of intermediation. Law 13/2016, of 28 July, the Tourism Act, in its fifth title, in the six chapters, deals with tourism activity, regulating the different types of enterprises and establishments. The law focuses on detailing and establishing general guidelines for tourist accommodation companies, including new accommodation figures, and also includes the possibility of compatibility of different types of establishments, including new mediation figures. In the normative development of this law, the Tourism Act, is published the Decree of July 3, 2018...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u3	... dwellings and rooms of private dwellings for tourist use. In this decree of 2018 it is expressed that the law "... announces, as one of the new developments in the management of the sector, the regulation of accommodation in private housing, thus recovering a figure that, following the use of new communication technologies, has been opening up with great push in recent times". And hence the decree addresses "... the regulation of accommodation in dwellings and rooms of private dwellings for tourist use, based on the freedom of establishment and in order to guarantee, equally, the principle of legality and due weighting of all the interests concerned". The 2018 Decree lays down conditions and requirements that respect the principles of necessity and proportionality, and does not impose any unjustified restrictions on entry into the market for accommodation for tourist purposes. It is also said in that decree of 2018 that it cannot be forgotten that the tourist accommodation is developed in a residential environment in which it is necessary to make the accommodation activity compatible with the normal neighborhood coexistence and the right of other people to enjoy their housing without special disturbances. Therefore, this decree incorporates the possibility for communities of owners to prohibit housing activity in accordance with the Horizontal Property Act. This decree also respects the principle of municipal autonomy and recognizes the powers granted to municipalities under the Basque Local Institutions Act in relation to the Basque Country Soil and Urbanism Act and the Basque Country Environmental Protection Act. This decree of 2018 also establishes, by means of an additional provision, the first additional provision on tourist accommodation in rural areas, which is excluded from the scope of the rule "the accommodation provided in dwellings and rooms for tourist use located in rural areas or in areas classified as non-urbanized land, the accommodation provided by farmers and herdsmen in farmhouses integrated in an agricultural holding and the accommodation provided in buildings or buildings that correspond to the traditional architecture typical of the region or the area". These cases "will be regulated by the specific regulation of tourist accommodation establishments in rural areas". And that is where, in that reference, when we have to go to the first additional provision, which leads us to the decree of 16 April 2013, regulating tourist accommodation establishments in the rural environment, and whose purpose is to develop the provisions of the Law on the Ordination of Tourism – that of that time, not that of 2016 – relating to agrotourisms and rural houses: on the rural hotel, on the rural apartment and the rural tourist hostel, exclusively. Because in 2013 these new housing figures were not contemplated in rural areas, such as tourist homes or rooms in private homes for tourist use. With the amendment that we are presenting today at the beginning of the processing of the Tourism Act, what we want, in short and in broad outline, is for the housing activity in rural areas to be developed through the formulas proper to rural tourism, from the protection of the rural environment and within the framework of the development of socially and environmentally sustainable tourism. The services directive has also been taken into account in formulating the amendment of the legal regulation, as it could not be otherwise. A directive that allows restrictions on an activity to be limited, provided that reasons of overriding general interest and criteria of necessity and proportionality are invoked, which in this case can be summarized as preserving the rural environment and its sustainable development in line with European regional policy. Because the European Commission points out that among the three typical problems affecting the rural world, whose solution or not will largely determine its future, is the pressure of the modern world, which occurs especially in rural areas close to or with easy access to large agglomerations. In situations like these, the sustainability of the rural world requires addressing crucial issues: land use, landscape transformation, weakening of ecological balance, seasonal population overload due to tourism. In view of this, the European Commission itself states that the objective is not so much the acceleration of economic development in rural areas as the necessary increase in the protection of the rural environment. I said at the beginning of my speech that this amendment to the Tourism Act sought two objectives, and the second is the extension of the scope of sanctioning power to the channels of mediation proposed by the Tourism Act itself in 2016. This is not and will not be a minor issue. The current article 76 of the Basque Tourism Act is subject to tourism discipline only to tourist companies engaged in tourist accommodation or mediation and to tourist professionals, but leaves out so-called tourist offer channels, real estate platforms or media advertising. And in order to correct this omission we propose to include in the Tourism Act of 2016, as subjects susceptible of sanction, the three types considered as channels of intermediation. The types of infringement would be two. On the one hand, the recruitment of clandestine services, as provided for in Article 94.2, and the regulation of the clandestine activity of Article 27, so that, if this proposed amendment is approved, a channel of intermediation involving any of the punishable conduct may be punished, which is not the case today. On the other hand, it is also a matter of including in the law as a serious offence, and therefore punishable, the conduct of advertising or brokering, including the mere hosting of content on the internet, when the registration number of businesses of tourist activities of Euskadi is not recorded. In short, it is a question of making it possible to demand responsibility for the publicity, promotion and tourist intermediation of the clandestine offer and of the one that is carried out by omitting the registration number, with an important degree of legal certainty. Both issues, the question of tourist dwellings and tourist rooms in rural areas and the question of the extension of the sanctioning power, are matters that ultimately make up the amendment that we are proposing today. These are approaches that we have made for legal certainty through legal modification, legal regulation, and not regulatory or regulatory development, precisely because of that legal certainty. This is the content of the proposed law amending the Tourism Act 13/2016 of 28 July. A content of a proposal that I hope I will start today, that I will take the first step in the corresponding process. A procedure that the Basque Socialists propose as open to dialogue, open to negotiation from this first minute, from the minute of its approval, understanding that there is room for improvement in it in order to make more compatible and balanced the interests that today are manifested as opposites and that do not satisfy any of the parties concerned regarding tourist homes and rooms in particular tourist homes in rural areas. I am convinced that the parliamentary groups will be able to become catalysts for the generation of a broad and satisfactory agreement for the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Anybody wanna be on the counter shift? Yeah. Well, Mrs. Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed legislation for consideration consists of four articles, a transitional provision and a final provision, in addition to a very extensive statement of grounds of more than eleven leaflets, and has the sole purpose of excluding, prohibiting, not allowing by law the provision of a temporary accommodation service in so-called tourist homes or in rooms of private dwellings for tourist purposes when such dwellings are located in rural areas or in non-urban areas, in hamlets which in turn are integrated in an agricultural or livestock holding, in buildings of traditional architecture characteristic of the area which are located in municipalities or entities of rural population. This says article 53, but this article defines tourist homes: concept and scope of application. And it says: "It is housing for tourist use that houses, whatever their typology, are offered or marketed as accommodation for tourist or holiday reasons, being temporarily transferred by the owner, operator or manager and marketed directly by itself or indirectly to third parties, repeatedly or habitually and in exchange for economic compensation, under conditions of immediate availability". "The following types of buildings are included in a non-exhaustive or restrictive manner: independent dwellings located in multi-family or townhouse buildings subject to horizontal ownership; isolated or paired independent dwellings; prefabricated or similar buildings of a fixed nature. These houses include private apartments, so-called studios, apartments, so-called villas and villas." And in line with this you incorporate exclusion. In the same article we have this authorization and exclusion. Is this a legal guarantee? Surely you believe that this is a legal guarantee. This is defenceless for the owner of a dwelling in rural areas. And this is where this proposal wants to include a paragraph, as I was saying, which says: "The offer of tourist accommodation services in the form of accommodation for tourist purposes is excluded...", excluded by law, "... in farmhouses integrated in an agricultural or livestock holding, as well as in buildings of traditional architecture characteristic of the area, which are located in municipalities or entities of rural population. Similarly, the provision of tourist accommodation services in this mode is excluded in dwellings located in rural areas or in non-urban areas". In the same terms, in article 54 they do so for accommodation in rooms of private dwellings for tourist use. Nowhere in the proposal of law nor in the law that they intend to modify is provided definition or legal concept, for the purpose of these provisions, of what is understood by rural core, traditional architecture characteristic of the area... What area are we talking about? We talk about the Goierri, we talk about the Llanada, we talk about the Mountain, we talk about Rioja Alavesa, about Carranza? Each has its traditional architecture, very differentiated, too. What are they talking about in this definition or indefinition of that article? And now for the note. What is a rural municipality or population entity? Not the municipality, the rural population. What are, according to the proponents, the notes that characterize or define a population? As I said, not the municipality or the rural entity. Is the frown frown, is the txapela with three threads, is the mantilla, the apron, that they play the mus, that they are bilge throwers? What is the rural character of the population? Can you define it for me? How is the villager on a rural basis? Does the population that lives in the 64 cores that integrate and are located in the municipality of the City of Vitoria have a rural or urban character? And if it is rural, do they have a lower, equal or higher degree than the population of the municipalities of the Mountain? What is the degree of rurality? Where do they define it? Listen, and those of us who are mixed, who live in urban and rural areas, what degree of rurality do we have? How do they define it? The proposed law handles as equivalent concepts, which do not define, terms such as "rural area", "rural environment", "rural territory", "rural area", "rural core" and even, as I have said to you, "rural character". The editor demonstrates a special zeal with the rural, so that he wants to take everything. Even the character, listen. He's not interested in defining, he's interested in grabbing. Because it feels like it belongs to you. And that's where you guys hit: what's yours. You define, you include, you exclude, you make records, the one who speaks Basque, the one who does not speak Basque, at what time we have to close the society, the txoko, you cannot make shows in the centers. It's banning, it's excluding, it's registering, it's making your model of society. And we rebel against this. The Law of 28 July, on Tourism, contemplated and regulated accommodation for the first time, both in tourist dwellings and in rooms of private dwellings for or for tourist purposes. And as stated in the explanatory statement, they are new forms of accommodation that, due to their undeniable nature of tourist accommodation, make them indispensable to include in the law. The current law does not include these new forms of accommodation in the category of accommodation establishments such as hotels, tourist apartments, campsites, agrotourisms, rural houses, which constitute a different category and involve the exercise of a business activity whose taxation regime in the IRPF is that of business or professional economic activity. Under the appropriate estimation regime, they shall do so. But the provision of the accommodation service of a dwelling for tourist use, that is, the simple temporary lease for days, weeks or months, for tourist or holiday reasons, being transferred directly by the owner in exchange for an economic consideration under conditions of immediate availability – unlike I told him, of the accommodation establishments – does not constitute this activity, it is not a professional or business activity, but particular to its owner, and its taxation regime in the IRPF is that of the income of the real estate capital. So, don't mix it all up, they're totally different aspects. It should be said that this matter had already had its debate when adopting Decree 101/2018, to which the rapporteur referred. The process of drafting and approving the decree has already attempted to establish the barriers, it has already been tried to exclude with the same text that you put in these two articles for this type of non-professional accommodation, for tourist homes and for rooms of private dwellings for tourist use, by an additional provision that intended to prohibit these activities. The Basque Competition Authority concluded that this unnecessary or proportional restriction should be eliminated by amending the decree in question, by deleting the provision concerned or, as it said, by amending Decree 199/2013 and including these models of dwellings for tourist use and accommodation in rooms of private dwellings for tourist use as housing figures in rural areas on an equal basis with the other housing figures. And the Basque Competition Authority said more: "Despite the full legal recognition of tourist homes and rooms of private tourist homes located in rural areas or in areas classified as non-urbanized land, any restrictions on the regulation of tourist homes must be motivated, proportionate and competitive." A restriction consisting simply in the prohibition, in the exclusion by law of tourist accommodation in rural dwellings, in addition to being contrary to the Tourism Act, because that is not the spirit of the Tourism Act, is entirely disproportionate and contrary to free competition, since it deprives the owners of such dwellings of the possibility of competing on equal terms. As a result of this report, the Basque Government was questioned about the interpretation of the first additional provision by the National Market Commission when it was amended and drafted as you said, referring to the article. And what did the Basque Government say to the National Commission on Markets and Competition in response to the referenced request? Pursuant to article 28.1 of Law 3/2013 of 4 June on the establishment of the National Market Commission, the Basque Government told him that the answer was affirmative, which could be included in the rural area tourist homes and rooms for the tourist use of private individuals. Therefore, here is an answer to which you have not mentioned. He didn't mention it. I was asking him that, if they could be rented under the tourist housing modality. And the answer was yes. And despite this, the proposed law insists on prohibiting, excluding, restricting, vetoing exploitation. They like it a lot. They've totally "potemized." They are the same in these new policies that have come to exclude us, because only they have the possession of the truth. They're in that, in excluding, in vetoing us, in registering us. There they are. I would therefore like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the view of the Group of the European People's Party it is more than dubious legality, since it not only prohibits the holding of a legal business between individuals expressly admitted and regulated in the Civil Code, but also runs counter to Community law or to the Bolkestein Directive. This proposal does not seek to regulate tourist accommodation in rural areas. I could have established certain requirements: badges, if there's something that crashes... They have two regulations to include in one or the other those modifications, but what they want is to exclude by law. It's a real barbarity. You know that there has been a law of the Community of Balearics – of Balearics, yes – that has been appealed for carrying in the text of the law the word "exclude". They know you've been sued. You don't care, you don't care, you do your thing, to exclude, to make records of Basque society. There you are. We do not consider this proposal of law neither necessary nor proportionate, as the Basque Competition Authority has already warned. Therefore, the explanatory statement establishes as one of the reasons for excluding these activities in rural centres the protection and preservation of the rural world, the survival of the unique rural world, as well as the maintenance of the primary sector, characteristic architecture or landscape and the environment. Hey, what's going on? That tourists who come to the rural houses, are of different condition from those who come to the tourist homes, are different? One comes to protect the environment and the other comes to destroy? But how do you know that? They're smart! Do you have a previous census or what is this? It's very difficult. We do not understand in what affects the environment, the traditional architecture characteristic, the landscape, the maintenance of the primary sector the fact that people who visit us or vacation in rural centers or agrotourisms stay in private houses for tourist use instead of in rural houses. But why do you want to make just one model? Listen, and what happens to the one who wants nature tourism, the silence tourism. That, look, he doesn't want me to sing the rooster at six in the morning. But that is done in rural areas, too. In more isolated areas. So, I don't know why to exclude... Álava has the worst tourism data, and you, in addition to that... because this bill directly affects the rural area of Álava, especially the rural area of Álava. Therefore, when we have the worst tourism data in Alava you come to exclude, to restrict. What about the 20% of the population that we are in the rural world, that we do not do farming or have traditional houses? Look, I just don't know. What's going on? We're leaving, we're being ruled out, we're being kicked out? What do we do with all these buildings in the empty villages? What do we do? Shall we take them down? You're going to say what population goes there. You make a selection and then you put people in those houses. I mean, I don't know. In fact, as I told you, to exclude, to prohibit the exploitation of tourist homes in rural areas, we suspect that it has nothing to do with the environment, but with "Let them not come any more, that we are already enough". Very typical, on the other hand. I said that here when we talked about depopulation in rural areas. Much guilt has the rural environment itself: "Let them not come any more, that we are many". That's a very typical rural saying, isn't it? Favoring, in front of the owners of tourist homes, tourist accommodation establishments, favoring rural agrotourisms, rural hotels, rural tourist apartments as the only model... There are many models in rural areas, it doesn't have to be all rural! We have to offer different models, because there are different types of customers who want different types of experiences in tourism! So, what is this to exclude? When we are offering, when we have totally changed the tourist customers of perception, feeling, desire, to participate in a rural environment, but not because it is linked to agricultural or agricultural activity or livestock. If today our peoples have very little communication, relationship with agricultural and livestock activity! There may be a house or two dedicated to the activity, but then there are 80 not dedicated to the activity. So, what do we do with those houses? Ladies and gentlemen, what you are trying to do is to establish barriers that are neither proportional nor necessary. It prevents legitimate competition, contradicts the spirit and philosophy of the Basque Tourism Act of 2016, and, above all, violates civil law and Community directives. I cannot fail to express my perplexity in the Government's comment to set out its view in favour of this bill. "The Government understands that regulation must protect the rural fixation of the population linked to their socio-economic structure and, consequently, in sustainable terms. And, therefore, rural activities must be linked to the economic sustainability of farms." Hey, but do you know how many farms there are in Alava? And do you know how many houses there are in the rural cores? That, as I say to you, 80% is not linked to farming and livestock. Then how can such a thing be said, no? What do we do with 80% of those dwellings that are not linked to farming, which are not traditional, are not classical cottages? What's going on? What do we do? When we asked here in June for measures, to carry out economic activities in rural areas, what did they mean? What did they mean? We all support that. What did they mean? As I told you, excluding, vetoing, prohibiting these forms of tourist accommodation, tourist accommodation or rooms in private accommodation for tourist use, it goes against Community law, against State law, against the Tourism Act approved here, against the Competition Authority. We have a great responsibility. Excluding economic activities without solid and contrasted arguments and legally endorsed can generate very important, irremediable damage to the rural world; the one that goes away, if I exclude it, will not return. Indeed, very difficult to return. So, do you know what they're proposing? You know, they've looked at the consequences? Have you made a socio-economic assessment of the rural area and what this means? Did they? If we were here talking about depopulation, about the great problem we have, and you come to exclude economic activities in 80% of the constructions in rural areas! But how is it possible, how is it possible that this is so reasonable to them, when the European Union is also making a strategy to bring people to rural areas or not to leave rural areas? So, what do we do? You go against every law: European, state and also the tourism law here, because that is not the spirit of the law. With what environmental report can they seriously prove that the activity of a tourist house in the rural environment is more harmful to the environment than that of a rural house? I want an environmental report, by an environmental expert, to tell me what you said: that we have environmental arguments to ban this. Listen, a report, because to me, not small; here all justified, just like a socio-economic report that tells me how this affects the rural environment, because it influences negatively, because it slows down economic activities and because it slows down the fixing of population; no, it excludes it. What do we do with the 330 homes – or so on – that are already registered in rural areas to make this tourism? Shall we throw them out? We made them illegal, didn't we? Because you don't put a solution to that. They're checking in. That is, if there are 330 people who are thinking that there is an economic opportunity in rural areas, you say, "No, out." Can we afford that? That luxury, can we afford it? They regulate in the regulations what they consider appropriate, according to the sector, so that they all meet very similar characteristics, understanding that some are tourist establishments and others are private accommodation. That's a difference. Go to the regulations. We have two regulations: the one for 2018 and the one for 2013. For that there is no need to amend the law, they can do so in the regulations. But it is not the will to agree, Mrs Corcuera, as you have told us here, by means of amendments. No, they can do it in the regulations and they don't want to do it. And they have reports that you can do in the regulations, and they don't want to use them. They have reports, and they don't want to use them. They want to exclude by law, because they are sectarians, sectarians: "my model", "only model", "I control", "I say who comes, who doesn't come, who does rural activity and who doesn't do rural tourism". That's to exclude, but as far as we're concerned, that's to break society, that's to classify ourselves. If we speak Basque or if we don't speak Basque. Whether we're from a txoko or we're from another txoko. Yeah... So, you, step by step, ant to ant, are making us a record of society. Mrs Corcuera, we do not agree with this proposal for a law. They have other systems to regulate, if there is something to regulate and it has not been adjusted in the 2018 Regulation. But, of course, excluding an activity is not legal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u6	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u7	Thank you, President. Let's see, Mrs López de Ocariz, the houses and rooms in private dwellings for tourist use today do not have a specific regulation as activity in the rural area. Because of the regulations in force, the Tourism Act and some decree, it is clear that this intention is to provide for a specific provision for tourist accommodation in rural areas through the modalities of dwellings and rooms in private dwellings for tourist use. In that we are, in an intention; that is what the law marks today. Today it is not playing with the same rules of play in rural areas. Tourist homes and rooms in private homes for tourist use, agrotourisms or rural houses today are not playing in the countryside with the same rules of play, Mrs López de Ocariz, and you should know it. No, don't do me like that, it's just that you must know: you're not playing with the same rules of play. I already understand that the issue of regulating you, because, in the end, it bothers you, it bothers you very much. But I am not taught a report by the Basque Competition Authority, which today seems to you that it is no longer the question of reports, when the same value had in the year 2016 that report by the Basque Competition Authority that denied, that went against the tourism law that we were dealing with, against the tourism bill of the year 2016. They are non-binding reports, reports which speak exclusively from the field of competence, without taking into account more issues or issues that may develop a particular field. And I'll tell you again, if we do it through legal regulation, it's because we understand that that's the focus that gives legal certainty to a change. Regulatory development has limits, it has limits. Legal regulation has others. And here we are contemplating the services directive. I say this again, the general interest is protected, measures of necessity and proportionality are taken, of opportunity to make this legal amendment. Therefore, it is not a question of excluding, it is not a question of prohibiting, it is not a question of not allowing, it is not a question of defence. Furthermore, I would recommend that you vote in favour of this amendment, of this proposal, only so that you can give it the opportunity and the scope to deal with it, to deal with it through amendments in which you can at least try to amend this proposal in those areas or issues which seem to you to be completely out of the question. But, look, there's more. Here we are not banning different models in the rural area on accommodation. Not at all. We want them to live together, we want them to live together. But for that, it is not worth that some are not regulated and others are. It is not good, because then we are really putting in a state of defence those who are assuming each and every regulated legal issue. That's the problem! That's the problem! And I told you, this bill has room for improvement, no doubt. And we are going to try to reach any agreement, yes or yes, to the widest possible consensus. Obviously, not all concepts will be present today. Obviously, there will not be all the definitions that all political groups want to be in this proposal, but we can do so if we deal with this issue. We can achieve this through amendments and we can achieve it through a negotiation in that debate so that an amendment to the Tourism Act can take place that really leads to trying to reach consensus, to coordinate, interests that are today opposed. And they are counterposed because some have regulation and others do not; that is why they are conflicting interests. Because some see that the road is much more difficult to continue to maintain an economic activity than others, who have only one question of the law, because they refer them to a decree of 2013 that leaves them in albis And what's more, we must be aware that when you make a legal regulation it's not for two days, two years. It is also a matter of looking to the future and having a perspective on matters. Today we are more aware than ever of the problems that have been experienced by tourist homes, rooms in tourist homes in urban centres, in urban areas, in cities. Today we are aware that there have been many problems: that there has been picaresca, that there have been unregulated housing, non-registered housing... Such clandestine activities are still being pursued today. It should therefore be envisaged that it is possible, if not regulated, that there is also a massing of this question of tourist accommodation in rural areas. Because you have to take advantage of where there is no law, you have to take advantage of it. Not long ago we had an example with another question. When it doesn't work, there's no law to hold on to, what happens, what happens? That there are demanes, that there are demanes. I respect your position. I... Get out of the way. And besides, I'm talking to Mrs. López de Ocariz. There's a lot of clumsiness. There are problems because circumstances are used to establish, for example, large commercial establishments. Of course, there is no legality; so, listen, let's go, and let them bloom like mushrooms. Well, then, this is starting to become, or it can become, a problem of this kind. And we must also look forward to it. That is why we have a certain perspective, also in time, temporary. It's not that some of us have become... or we've "potemized." Hey, I didn't "podemize" at all. But what am I going to "podemize"! You, what do you think: that I am a chameleon who today comes from Podemos and tomorrow I come as a nationalist? Hey, I'm... No, laugh... Me, what I have so much honor is to be socialist. Point. Yes, yes, Mrs López de Ocariz; he will shock you or annoy you, but I am socialist. I'm neither Elkarrekin We can nor the PNV. I am from the Basque Socialist Group, and I take it, truly, to a great deal of honor and with a great deal of honor. I told him that the law – obviously, in the process, if we succeed in approving the proposal today – will allow us to introduce a series of measures that allow for adjustments. Because, of course, adjustments must be made. In these adjustments to those opposing interests, we need to achieve broad consensus. People who are actually having a tourist home today or who actually rent a room for tourist use, have made some investments. Logically. We cannot force – in any way, because it is not our claim – the fact that we actually force them to be part of an agrotourism or a rural house. That is why it is necessary that there may be amendments in the procedure that allow such adjustments of interest, such coordination, and that, in the end, neither of them feel aggrieved by a law such as the Tourism Act. Because today there are aggravations, the Tourism Act is producing aggravations. Surely it was not the will of any one of us who were or intervened in the Tourism Act to encourage these grievances. Surely it was not the will of anyone who promulgated the decree in 2013 or promulgated the decree of 2018 to generate these grievances. It wasn't, but there were. But there were. And since there were, we have to try to remedy this situation. I'll tell you again, Mrs. López de Ocariz, that our group... For he has met with the parties concerned; he has met with all of them. And we did it particularly with each of them, and today I say it publicly and I said it in my previous speech: we want everyone to feel concerned by the law in the good sense, that everyone can practice an economic activity in the rural environment, but subject to the same rules. And for that we are open to negotiation, to talk, and we have sought to safeguard the interests of all, including those people who have made investments and who today may be affected by a law. We understand that there is room to change, to amend that law, and I, what I would ask you to do is to count on you to, really, in that process, that you could make the contributions you considered appropriate. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. In the duel, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u9	I'm surprised: it tells me that you don't intend to exclude. Hey, do I read the text again? "The provision of tourist accommodation services in the form of accommodation for tourist use is excluded". The barracks, the aunt, the aunt, the aunt... It's out of the question. You can see that he's socialist, because... He's lying to me with a release! They are perfectly noticed that it has a little bit of socialist quail, although, in fact, it has twists. What are you telling me? Please! They want to exclude, and they have done so consciously and knowingly of what they were doing. Because if the decree of 2018 does not contemplate this is precisely because you did not want and issued a trap arrangement, a trap arrangement, because it was a trap arrangement. You know, what I was regulating. First they put this very thing into that arrangement. When the Basque Competition Authority told them no, they set up a trapping arrangement to then go to the law and exclude by law; that you have to have a quilt! One month after we voted here, economic activities must be carried out in rural areas, and we have a problem of depopulation. Listen, yes, I can prove that you have a socialist point, indeed. And you say if we're going to participate. Of course we're going to participate! Because, look, we're going to modify the whole explanatory statement, because it's unfortunate. Every time I read it, my hair gets like scarves. Because I was born, raised, lived and am what I am for agriculture, for the rural world; and let me be told that "It is necessary to establish barriers to protecting the world from the influx of people from abroad in totally disconnected forms of the main objective, which is nothing other than to try to facilitate the survival of the rural world linked to the basic characteristics that uniqueize it". But what is this? This looks like someone who's come from Mars. Really, but how can you write this? "Economic activity directly or indirectly linked to the primary sector, the maintenance of human settlement, the architecture characteristic of the landscape and rural environment". Do the proponents really believe that protection barriers must be put in place against people who do not live in rural areas, for example, want to set up tourist accommodation? Are we going to put barriers on them? But why? Let us be who we are, that we are four, and tomorrow we will be three, and after two. That's what they're going to Or what? Or are you going to bring the villagers? They're gonna populate us, aren't they? I mean, I annihilate what's there, I throw them all out and then you bring the villagers. I'm seeing them, yes. Oh, my mother! Look, really! Nothing is said in his initiative of those who are already developing, as he said, activities in rural areas. There have been some elements, there are people who have been developing these activities. Can all that they say in justification prove it? Because we already have people doing this activity in rural areas. It is true that the environment, the landscape, the barracks have been destroyed, the character of the rural population has changed. It's okay, they're options, and they're not the same, they can't play with the same game rules because they're not the same. Because you know that an agrotourism, to start your activity has a 40% lost bottom of the investment you will make. Are we also going to put that on tourist homes? They are not the same establishments, I told you that they are not the same, that they are different, that they are catalogued differently, that you had the opportunity to do so in the 2018 Regulation and that you did not. They could do it in 2013, modifying it. Neither. They want it by law. And, ladies and gentlemen, really! I will read more about the explanatory statement: "The situation is very different in the case of private dwellings for tourist use and rooms; in this case, allowing accommodation in private dwellings and rooms for tourist use in the rural area would mean opening a route of influx of tourists to rural areas disconnected from the objectives of preserving their distinctive characteristics". Hey, the astronauts are coming. Yeah, but really? But how can you write this? He says that if we are going to make amendments: from A to Z we are going to change this explanatory statement, of course. But what is this? Really! That "given the small size of rural society" – indeed, we are few – "can be a source of risk of breaking the fragile balance on which it is based". But let's see, what is this? [[Laughs]] "That is why it seems necessary to exempt in rural areas the two appropriate modalities". I mean, it's just, really... "We are few, let them no longer come." What I'm telling you, we're already going to populate it, right? Of those that you have characteristics for you... as I was saying, to make a doll throw, to play the mus, to take txapela to three threads... that's right, isn't it? That is the appropriate population of the rural environment that you consider. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote against, in case you hadn't noticed... [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u10	Now that we have finished our discussion, we will vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of 55; contraries, 9. Abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u11	So we consider the legal proposition. We'll go next to the vote, and we'll begin with Mrs García, the representative of Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u12	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. From Elkarrekin We have always demonstrated the importance of rural tourism in Euskadi. We have often talked about encouraging and encouraging measures to encourage green tourism, a tourism that gives prominence to the richness of the nature of our Community and to its different possibilities of leisure, that puts our landscapes and landscapes and the different ways of enjoying them at the centre, that people who want to get closer to Euskadi also do so to rural areas and that leisure offers and cultural offers are increased and tourism is also important in the economy of the smaller municipalities. It is common evidence that tourism in general and rural tourism in particular are at a time of boom and change, and from the institutions we have to adapt and update the different regulations and laws and the new challenges and realities presented to us. Since the opening of the first rural tourism accommodation in the Basque Country in 1990, many houses and houses have been converted into tourist accommodation, often helping to preserve the rural architectural heritage and improving the lives of its inhabitants. Spaces that have concentrated traditions and knowledge on their walls and fields and that, due to their large size and the lack of generational relief in their use for agriculture, are abandoned and given a tourist use. In recent times, aware that we are faced with an eco-social crisis and with the challenge of growing tourism, solutions must be sought that are up to date. Ecotourism offers us solutions that go a little further, looking for responsible tourism with the environment and local society. And with regard to the proposed law amending the Tourism Act 13/2016 of 28 July, which today brings us the groups that support the Government, we see important and we share the need to regulate specifically the houses and rooms of private dwellings in rural environments. We share part of the diagnosis that is made in the explanatory statement of the text that we are considering today. We agree to limit the market for rural tourist accommodation so that there is no unprotected situation, a bubble similar to that which has occurred with the rental of tourist apartments in urban areas and that any owner can rent and operate his accommodation without control and, worse, that it is the large platforms and companies that monopolize the sector. We already know what the negative consequences of these practices are. We therefore feel that this should be regulated, but for our parliamentary group the normative development must be carried out with all the actors in the sector, from the inter-institutional coordination and cooperation of the different collectives and the different associations and platforms that work or are affected by the activity in housing and housing in the rural environment. To this end, before developing this change, we had to have sat down and talked with all the existing platforms, with all the associations of owners of tourist homes and private rooms for tourist use, in order for this change to defend the interests of all people who own rural accommodation, but above all to ensure that the changes and modifications aim to help foster a model of respectful and sustainable exploitation with the artistic heritage and the environment, as well as to encourage local economies. There are more and more initiatives, both private and public, that want to be part of this change: on the one hand, to avoid rural depopulation and loss of property; and, on the other hand, to ensure that these initiatives contribute to a better quality of life for all its inhabitants. That is why we abstained, because, although we believe that regulation is necessary, we also believe that a more participatory and comprehensive debate of the situation is needed, so as to ensure the proper development of tourist activity in rural accommodation and housing in Euskadi, but by contrasting and agreeing on the measures to be implemented in order not to create more problems than is intended to be solved. Guarantee and legal certainty, yes, but guarantee and legal certainty for all. With this constructive and conciliatory spirit in the process that is now being opened, we will work to improve the text that has been brought to us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The EH Collecting Team. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u14	Good morning, everyone. As this is an explanation of the vote, I shall begin to explain why we voted, but also I think we must remember what we voted for, and today we have not voted the consent of a law, which we have voted today is whether we should consider the tramitation of a law or not. And we, by principle, believe that all laws ought to be taken notice of in order to open the gates of dispute. You see, I will read the titles of certain laws: The Law of the Social Clergy, the Law of Desects, the Law of Memory, the Law of the School Council, the Act of Betrothal of the Public Empire... All these, and others, are the laws introduced by the Combat; and the sects which uphold the Government have renounced the dispute, have closed that door. We don't want to answer with the same currency, we think in general that the gates should be opened to the argument. It is, in principle, our tendency, and we have confirmed it to-day: To the law, open the doors to the debate. We voted not today for this law, but for the discussion of what this law proposes. We must say more, we must also say that this law puts a problem on the table. And that's another reason why we vote for the tramitation. There's a serious problem about this problem, and some possible solutions are placed on the table. Now the tramite will begin, and we shall see in this tramite that this legal proposition will certainly have an opportunity of correcting the gaps and defects which this law has in it. Before Mrs. López de Ocariz – and I am not going to go in and beat her because she is not allowed in this turn – caricatured some of the indefinitions of this law, and did so with a certain joke and also with a certain reason. He then entered an ultra-liberal drift that I obviously do not share. I am curious that for some to "regulate economic activity" is to open the doors to Stalinism, and yet decrees that curtail civil liberties in the digital sphere or put video cameras at the Bilbao bus station for facial identification, that must be the summum of liberalism and public freedoms, but, well... I was saying that I agree that this law has privations, that it has imperfections, and that it has some imperfections. Our work, after considered, will be to make corrections and to listen to all aspects. We have heard the difference, and we shall return to this exercise, because we believe that two are the principal elements which must be corrected in this law: First of all, the lack of legal estimations mentioned. It is necessary to sharpen and define so many definitions, because laws cannot be made in general. If the laws are not strict, the laws are not effective, and are not just. On the other hand, we must consider that some persons have hitherto been developing a legal economic activity, developing a legal economic activity, a legal activity protected by the laws, and that this change would be affected. If these men are to develop their activity in good faith, they cannot now be affected, excluded, forgotten. And we must consider not only the tramitation of this law, but the rights of these persons. And for this purpose we will attempt to construct exceptions and compensations in the transition of the law, these persons who have been in good faith, and who perhaps in the future have joined the philosophy of the turism model which we have shared in the theory, we will also seek gaps in order to develop their activity. Ultimately, we have here a debate that, perhaps, for many of the people who are listening to it in this House is somewhat dark and you cannot understand the background to the issue, but if I raise it in other words, we will certainly get it right away. This is, a little bit, the taxi against the Uber. The taxi has strict regulation, pays a few licenses, has a schedule, has a tax, labor, etc. obligations, etc., and Uber comes to cover a similar space but with a freeway of width and legal margin that taxis do not have; therefore, it is constituted in a competition, in a certain way, unfair. We understand that a model of success has been established in Basque rural tourism, which, on the one hand, in the case of agrotourisms..., and the current law does not require that accommodation be provided only in premises or at home where agricultural or livestock activity is carried out, but offers people who carry out such activities the possibility of complementing their income through the figure of the tourist accommodation. And there are also rural houses, there are rural houses in which, without developing an agro-gaining activity, you can make an offer of tourism in the rural environment, but a very rated offer, very regulated, which, as I said, has made this country in its offer of rural tourism be perceived as an attractive offer as such, because it is well regulated what is to be offered in this space. And what we do not want is that what is working, is working well and is helping the development of the rural environment now is conditioned by the possibility of opening doors to speculation or other offers of overexploitation in the rural tourism field that run counter to this model. As I said: There are ways to correct mistakes. We're going to be assets trying. And, well, there's a challenge ahead of us. Well, let's do it. Thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours. telía pageols Without being angry, without raising a tone that does not deserve the matter, without histrionisms, without "maying us", without "party-popularizing us", we have voted that "yes", obviously, because we understand that this law, which we have co-proposed, needs to be processed. Because, after listening to people and sectoral organizations, we have seen that when we did the Tourism Act we did not finish delving into a specific issue, such as that of the rural world, which we left in some way in a certain argument that forces us to address it. What we've done today is admit to processing that law. We have not decided whether or not the law is passed. And what you can't do is deliver a bill because I don't like it and, somehow, refuse to have it processed when you admit that you have to address the issue. It is also true that the bill, as it has thus been introduced, seems that it could create some legal uncertainty, which in itself is not a problem because – we have already commented on it more than once among the groups – through amendments, I am sure that we will fix it. However, it is a project that, regardless of future legal adjustments, arises because, in addition to the fact that, as I have already said, some aspects of the matter are not regulated, doubts and disputes arise, beyond legal ones; let us say, rather, philosophy. That, in itself, without being good or bad, requires reflection and debate so that this Parliament and the political groups that make up it can discuss it and come to an agreement, what I think is not only possible, is that we will achieve it. I'm going to ask myself, without further ado, four questions. Can there be discrimination between urban and rural areas in terms of tourist flats and rooms? Does it make sense, does it make sense? If we are filled with the mouths of rural languishing and tourism as one of the resources left to provide life and economy, how should we organise tourism in this area in order to really promote economic developments? Is the rural environment the guardian of the essences of a country's culture, landscape and philosophy, while in the urban world we joyfully dedicate ourselves to destroying all that? Who accepts rules and rules from the Administration to equip themselves with qualified services has to compete with you with those who do not? That's four questions that aren't rhetorical. These are questions that arise when I reflect on this subject, and some more, on which I will no longer extend because I have not come here to ask questions without answering. It is a matter of us answering throughout the presentation of the debate on the law. Let's deal with the answers. They are all questions that have certainly been raised by those who have touched on this text of the draft bill. That is why we have understood that it must be processed, so that the information and opinions passed on to us by the different agents and people who operate in this sector will illustrate us in the work and that all groups will be able – and in that we will strive – to reach minimum agreements. That is why we voted yes, because, although it is a short law, it addresses in itself conflicts and problems that we cannot and must not forget, that we have to contemplate, and because I am sure that the different parliamentary groups are willing, almost everyone – some, it seems not – wants to address them in order to reach agreements that will allow the rural environment to continue to develop fairly and equitably. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Ostero Galirdo EH gathering, concerning the fulfilment of the ends of the intelligible law of patience." To discuss and settle forever. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Otero, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u16	Yes, hello, good morning to all. If you told me to count in a couple of minutes and so that we could understand, more or less easily, what has happened with the Energy Sustainability Act, with its development, and, above all, with the absence in the draft Budgets of the 100 million item destined for the municipalities to develop the law, I would say that it has been a fabulous thyme, a thyme of fables. And, actually, I'd tell you the fable of the scorpion and the frog, which I suppose you'll know, but I remember it. The fable said the scorpion wanted to move to the other side, where there was a river, right? I understand that on the edge of sustainability, don't I? The scorpion does not know how to swim; then, the scorpion approaches the frog and says, "Hey, let's go together, we have to pass the river of sustainability, we have to reach sustainability." So, the frog, who knows the scorpion, says, "Now, but you sting; we have a problem." The scorpion says, "No, it's okay. I bet, but, like I'm going to be riding on you, if I bet you, we sink, we both sink. We're all on this boat. We're all on this boat." Then, after some doubts, then, in the end they mount and the frog, goes, accesses and, to nothing that gets into the river, the scorpion, cataplum, itch. Scorpion stings. The scorpion stings and, obviously, they begin to sink. And the frog says, "But what are you doing? Hadn't we stayed where we were going to sink?". And the scorpion says, "Well, I'm sorry, because this is my nature." "Basicamente, yo creo que ha passo esto." I think it's so serious that the law of use in the budget does not reflect on the priorities, that it's so serious that we don't go forward with our proposal to-day, that if I were really in your seats at least I'd be ashamed of myself. For this law hath a curious story: This law was introduced into this legislature, which was limping and limping. This law was the first time entered into the law. For the first time in July 2016, knowing that it would not be possible to bring the law forward, but yet it was given in this legislature (in the public administration of Euplicity). And I say he crawled in, because he had to go in twice: then, in the year 2017, he entered the same text. Bath, herren ere, herren sartu zen. Eta herren sartu zela guk esan genuine bere garaian, baina ez ginen gu Bakarrik izan, Kontrol Ekonomikorako Batzordeak, the Office of Economic Control, in a very strong report, when he was presented with the law, in which it was very sharp, he said, "... Overall, the dossier does not provide a sufficiently well-founded overview, nor an estimate of its impact on the budgets of the public administration, neither the sources nor the means of financing, as well as an elementary cost assessment that may result from its application to other public administrations, individuals and the economy in general. These shortcomings must be addressed." That's what he said. Berriz sartu zenean hori eginda zegoen? Ez, Ez Zegoen is the first. Ez Bakarrik Kontrol Ekonomikorako Batzordeak; Eudelek era, beer garayan, legearen information-phasean bear argi utzi zuen. Esan zuen: "The economic memory that must complete the dossier of this preliminary draft has not quantified the economic impact that these obligations will have on municipal finances. And this absence should not be underestimated because, only from that quantification in the legal text, which proposes new obligations to municipal authorities, must also collect funding. If this is not done, the law does not comply with the local legal order in force, and is subject to challenge." Then, in the year 2018, when there were any shows, the mayor of Muggia, Agargi, which is the EAJ, spoke more or less in the same terms. He said without funding, there was a serious problem doing this law for the local administration. But when Eudele said, "De no hacerse así, la ley no cumple el orderimaento jurídico local vigente," what was he talking about? He was talking about the Local Organizational Act, approved on April 7th, 2016. "Y ah, en el artículo 18.3, en tell me that there was no such thing as aprobo connostros, precisente, se decía que: "Las leyes y whomas forales que atrimentias propias a los muicipios, así como los unlalaros reglamentaris de aquaellas secariales quemarique una concreción de sercios, activedas odices..." "'Come es el caso, ' degrivadas de compencias atrientidas como propias, deberán recoger en un anexo cescico la dotición de los recursos para sumir sufiiciencia de los municiis." That's what the law says. And Eudel sent for you, okay? But in 2017, this law came with the same text. We saw that the law would be a chance to get out of this, and so we began to work, and we introduced 128 of the amendment of the whole, which seemed to us to have great effects. But the law passed those things. And from that point on, I admitted that when we accepted the law, then, there was a negotiation carnival and that there was a lot more of it, and even financially, things got better. We made a specific proposal in the economic part of the law. We said that in our amendments, the Esuphora has already received the statement that it was necessary to form a $4, 200 million interinctical fund that the Eusal Organization of energy had to handle it. And when we went in on the negotiations, EAJ said that their scheme was a different one, that it was their scheme to fill his cares with money, to keep his money and to create a fund, money. The case is that, after the negotiations and an improvement account, the law was passed. And that day the law was passed, and there was some satisfaction. There was a certain celebration, wasn't there? Mr. Grajales said here that it was one of those days when politics grew bigger by the agreement between different people. We can say that an effective, ambitious, binding and applicable law was adopted. And the applicable part, the applicable part – and I read the Journal of Sessions – said: "Because it has a financing instrument. And in that we have to thank, too, for the contributions that other groups have had, especially Euskal Herria Bildu. It has a financing fund for municipal investments of EUR 100 million. It is an applicable law, because it has money to apply from behind." That's what Podemos said, Mr. Becerra. So the law was drafted as has been said several times here, that "in the immediate subsequent budget year, in order to facilitate investments, it will be a financial tool for supporting local entities". And it says the law that "the financial tool will be constituted with a minimum amount of 100 million euros, to facilitate investments", and such, and such. That was in March. In the summer, funk, with the president in charge, he made a declaration of climatical emergency. And it was the first thing that came to me: "Well, if the climate emigrate has been declared, in the accounts which we have agreed on, and in the coming of these 100 million, they will, or yes, come, because the best instrument is to reflect that there are some more green presidency or some more favourable to the climate." Así que, then, when the preliminary announcements were announced, they were announced as a violet, feminist budget, and green drugist. Or, at least, these budgets were cohere with the declaration of the climate's emergency. Beraz, imajinatu dezakezuen bezala, when the Budgets arrived, the same day that they arrived, so I, the first, the first, I did was to go and see what specific item those 100 million euros were reflected in. I went over all the money from Mrs. Tapia's apartment and I couldn't find it. I reviewed the Basque Entente de la Energia, I didn't find it. And I said, "Wow! I'll be missing something." I don't know if you remember any of the parliamentarians in my group: Pinedo, Casanova, Ugarte, Estarrona... I think almost everyone was told, "Hey, there's got to be a mistake. It may be I, who am clumsy looking at the Budgets, who may be." And I say, "I can't find, I can't find the bottom, I can't find the tool, anywhere; the 100 million." So much so that they said to me, "You have to be wrong. The PNV has committed itself to you and has signed a law which expressly states that it will be collected in the following fiscal year." I look again: nothing. Look again: nothing. I'm so surprised that I'm also addressing Mrs. Red from the PSOE, and Mr. Grajales from the PNV, and I'm like, "Hey! What's wrong with this? What about this?" I run into a cri-cri-cri book. And then we say, "Well, this can't be; this, you have to ask." We started asking. Azpiazu's answer to Mrs Pinedo: "The nature of the financial instrument is still to be determined, but it is very likely to be a mixed grant and financial instrument, not excluding the participation of the Basque Institute of Finance for its management". I saw it green. Mrs Tapia, in the Budget presentation, tells us: "the resources are at the Basque Institute of Finance, which has a lot of resources." I read the Journal of Sessions: "There are resources, therefore, and sufficient, but we need to have an instrument that allows the municipalities to make investments without being considered as indebtedness." I say, "Insufficient. We're going to make an inquiry." In the interpellation the version has already changed, the version has already changed, because there were sufficient resources, but now it is not so clear. And he tells us –textual –: "Those 100 million...", to which we referred, "... they are not in one exercise, but in several exercises." And he also tells us: "In any case, you still have to work with Eudel to analyze if it is really the necessary tool." Should we talk to Eudel? Eudel warned since 2016 and have had three years to talk to Eudel. These amendments have been around for more than a year and a half and the law has been adopted since February this year. We still don't know if he's going to the Basque Institute of Finance, we still don't know how many years he's going to be, we still don't know anything. But that is what Mrs Tapia also tells us: "The work of monitoring, inspection and monitoring compliance with the obligations of the law is also the objective that worries us." That's right, control, that's right. There is a very specific item that speaks of control of energy sustainability, 120,000 euros, recorded. That's right; of the rest, not a word. That's when I see that the circle is closing and I say, "Yes, this has been a thyme." And I remember, and I remember – and I have brought it – the best thesis I have ever read about the economic crisis, which is a really short thesis, but I think it says it all, which is this: [[Shows a photo]] "Enjoyed deceived" (We have been deceived). Obviously, it's not... it's a thesis that hasn't gone through the chair or got a cum laude. We have been deceived, but yet it seemed to us that it was worth the last attempt, and that is why we brought here today a proposal of discussion and throwing and voting, in which he says for a January, and looking at the odds, that the 100 million instrument must be on the table, and with all the agreement he agreed on. Podemos. Poseidon, I think he ought to agree with all of this, clarísimament, but in your repentance you don't talk about money, that he must be in the budget, but you don't talk about money. I suggested a middle-way proposal, but it's not possible, it's not possible, I think you'll have to explain yourself why it wasn't possible. I warned him last week: On account of the dangers of the negotiation of the former, I suspect that I do not require here what we agreed on in the law, and what you agreed to do, I find it very serious. This is what the EAJ and PSE say, that in the next act, the tool must be put into action, not even the badge and money are spoken of. You don't say a word about money. I think I'm going to end the program, Mrs. President, who's very simple, because you were so easy to make a real effort in these presides for the climate. Instead, you wanted to do something else, and tomorrow we'll talk about this, Mrs. Tapia. We believe that a justification, a deception, and games of all colours have been disguised or painted in green. And maybe it'll be all right after you've seen Podemos' headlines. What I don't understand is how it is possible to enter Podemos, and you, Mr. Becerra, definitely. You deceived me, you deceived us, you saw me. We were easy to fool. That's obvious. But as in the fable, I think you don't realize that we're all going to hell together if we don't deal properly with the climate emergency that is to be fought against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of Investigators, congressmen. Good morning, everyone. Today, EH Collector's initiative comes to the plenon, and we believe that it has meaning in bringing this initiative to us. The sense, he says, is that a problem should already be solved. It must have been settled that the law of the Consistent Power had to be admitted from February and that the problem had to be settled now. We understand that it is not easy to build a stock of 100 million euros, and that it is not easy, either for money, because it is a very large sum, and that none of them is morally easy. It is not easy and therefore in the transfer of the law we made our own proposals on the side of money as well as on the legal and legal instrument. On the other hand, we mentioned that we needed enough quantities of money, not 100, not 200 million euros, but enough quantities, so that, according to law, we could answer our duties. And in a juridically, we used the word "Toole," because there can be so many tools that it can be fulfilled: loans, scholarships, funds, etc. And this is an important matter of the instrument, because, owing to the law of stability in the past, many of the townships and many of them cannot borrow, or receive debts. Then it's the most important thing about the instrument, and it's not for us and we don't know what to use the instrument yet, but yes, there has to be a tool. And it belongs to the government to determine what that instrument is. He must choose this kind of instrument, and the precise quantity we must have depends on the instrument. For if there are subsidies, yes, it must be 100 million euros, but in the case of loans there must not be that quantity, and in the case of the funds you must have the amount you need, but perhaps you must form the substance for several years. I won't go in there, but they're connected. That's why we haven't gotten enough in our corrections. We will not enter what kind of instrument it must be, but yes, it must be in this presidency, and not, as appears in the correction of the sects supported by the Government, throughout the 2020 act. This is not fair, and therefore we will not protect the correction of the sects that maintain the Government. We hold our own correction, and allow it to be necessary to complete it as soon as possible to be applicable, as we said on that day when the law was accepted. We must form the instrument as fast as we can, because the ends of the law and the deadlines are strong, and our councils must have a way of fulfilling the ends and the deadlines of the law. That's why we keep our correction, because it's the right thing to do. And we shall offer abscession to the proposition which EH Collect has proposed, and we shall say no to the proposal presented by the Government, because we must have it in the priorities, and not in the year, as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u19	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u20	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Well, I don't think we should be talking about this either on the subject, or on the subject of shamed parliamentarians, or any of this. You, Mr. Otero, had a major role in the negotiation of the law. You negotiated with the government and you knew what you were negotiating and how you were negotiating it. When the Government, or the parties we support to the Government, we table an amendment that does not clearly put the 100 million, it does not do so because, when you read the literality of the fifth additional provision, you already talk about those 100 million. It does not mean that we do not give up the amount, but that, as we all know, a law is binding. And you know it, the government knows it and we know it by all the parliamentarians that we voted for that day in this plenary. I believe that the draft budget that has been presented, and that we will see what happens to it, does many things in favour of the climate. These are different budgets, with different budget headings appearing, which we will see, as I say to you, where the negotiation ends, with whom it is negotiated and with which each one votes. The Government's amendment therefore states that this will be done to what the Government has committed itself to. What needs to be explained is when, how and how it will be done. I think that in this debate we should run away from talking again about what was important, how the law came, how the law didn't come... The important thing is that we passed that bill that day. We also voted in favour of four of the five parliamentary groups, and I therefore believe that with that it is clear what everyone's commitment is and what everyone's concern was. I don't think anyone questions what we approved on that day and I don't think anyone denies that financial tool that is ultimately the main focus of the initiative that you presented to us today. Therefore, as I say, a few months ago we discussed the content of the law. For a long time there was a closed debate on the nuances that each parliamentary group proposed, and, as I say, you did have a leading role. It is true that you asked me about it, and my colleagues in the parliamentary group can also acknowledge that we have spoken many times about where the 100 million "Otero" are. I say "de Otero" – in quotes – because it is true that you were concerned because you did not find what you understood to have negotiated, and in my parliamentary group I also posed to those responsible for carrying the Budgets – because I recognize that I am not an expert in this matter, I am of pure, pure letters, and I find it difficult to understand the Budgets – where that was, that financial tool that you had also made appear textually in the Budgets. Therefore, I want to say that it was a shared concern, yours, mine and I understand that of all the parliamentary groups, because we understood that that departure was important enough and had an entity sufficiently..., well, decisive to be able to carry out what we had talked about, debated and agreed at that time. And then, I'm going to set an example for you to see that I'm not getting away from the subject, and I think there's the answer to why it doesn't appear in a textual way in that budget draft. There are instruments that are complex when it comes to establishing them in a Budget Act. And, as I say, I'm going to take an example. For example, the Finkatuz fund. The Finkatuz fund, after two years, almost three, talking about a private public fund to boost tractor companies in Euskadi, as I say, was approved and debated in a certain way, but it has taken more than two years to articulate it in the Basque Institute of Finance, which requires the legal framework of the Budgets Act in order to be able to meet the conditions that the European rules on aid to institutions or entities mark. What you are proposing to us today and which already appears in what is already an energy sustainability law, we are talking about a financial instrument that requires a much more complex procedure than the fact that a budget item appears with a clear name, as you ask. Therefore, the Government maintains its commitment to you in the negotiation of the law itself, the Basque Government is working internally to articulate the tool referred to in the fifth additional provision with that 100 million, and of course I understand that the Government will do so as soon as possible. And your intention, of course, is to do so in this budget year. Let us not forget that not a year ago we passed this law and that, of course, the laws, as you know, are binding. Therefore, those 100 million, as you put it, do not appear because there is a need for a specific procedure, because things cannot always be done as some believe when we approve certain things, and because no one questions the need to continue implementing measures to deepen what has to do with energy efficiency and efficiency. That bill was an extension of the Basque Government's commitments in order to be able to go deeper into what has to do with energy. And, as I say, I think it was sufficiently supported to understand that we all share the commitment and desire for the Government to do so. Therefore, I think it is more of a procedural issue. As I say to you, the Government is working internally, because it does not only depend on Mrs Tapia's department, and I have no doubt that, of course, you will be able to find that fund, that financial tool that she has agreed with the Government and that is also in the law literally. You told us about the fable of the frog and the scorpion. There's another fable called The Spooky Worm. And far from a cri-cri-cri in that answer, it is that this Member has been concerned to look where they were, and I think I have been able to give her the answer. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u21	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. I am sorry for this speech, because I am proud of what I have done. I am proud of the arrangement obtained by Mr. Becerra, I am proud of the agreement obtained by Mr. Otero, and proud of the law which almost all of us have made together. And I must tell you, I hardly agree with what you said. But if I take the text of the motion, I quite agree with what you plan here. I would make a few shades, in case of a climate alarm, because laws are not observed, although they are connected with energy because we are in a climateal emergency; because they must be fulfilled because we have agreed to it. And, on the other hand, of what is here planned: you say that we cheat you because you thought this instrument should be in the budget the first day of January. Mr. Becerra also said, "No, I'm going to vote for the amendments made by the party that support the government, because it's not fair." I do not know when I was wrong, but the amendment says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in accordance with the fifth additional provision of Law 4/19 of 21 February on Energy Sustainability of the Basque Autonomous Community, to proceed during the financial year 2020 to constitute a financial tool". And this must be horrifying. Well, well, I've forgotten to read, among other things that I don't know lately or that I forget, I don't know. I go to the law, and the law says: "In the budget year immediately following the entry into force of the law, the Basque Government, in order to facilitate the investments to be made in its implementation, will be a financial tool for the support of local entities..." – exactly the same – "... during the 2020 budget year". But "Well, since we're in a climate emergency, this has to be by January 1st." But, listen, you, who know the law as well as I do, will agree that, before the municipalities start to ask for aid or subsidies in your case to carry out the law, just like you have to start making mobility plans, just like you have to start making audits, and then what has to come will come. And here you speak of thyme; for, look, I am going to use this turn of word for absolutely the opposite, I want to reassure each and every mayor of this Autonomous Community by telling them to be calm, that the government will comply with the law within the deadline, within the 2020 budget year, in the amount set, a minimum of 100 million euros, and that there will not be a single municipality – or one alone – that can enter into the assumptions that the law indicates will be left without receiving what belongs to it, none; therefore, tranquility, that here there is no thyme or trap or cardboard. Here you have started with a fable; so let's all end with a fable. Here I don't know if there are scorpions, if there are frogs, and in case there were any who would be which. To me, this, what reminds me is that fable of the hare that ran a lot, do you know?, and of the turtle, that went soft, soft, as the song says, and that it was the one that ended up reaching the goal and winning the race, because for the hare everything is easy ("I run a lot, I run a lot"). Eta "zuriketa" exacten zenuen gaur, greenwashing greenwashing pinkwashing kickboxing And then, it seems logical to me and it seems to me that justice should be talked to the older people involved, that we should not make a bread like pies, that we do not create a financial tool that ends up consolidating debt to the municipalities, that ends up with its spending ceiling, that creates problems for them, in short. It seems to me that things have to be done well, even if they take a little longer. And in this case, moreover, as I say to you, taking into account exactly what the law says: "in the budget year immediately following the entry into force of the law", which, if I am not mistaken, runs from 1 January to 31 December. I join you in asking the Counsellor and Mr Azpiazu that the date of entry into force of the measure be much closer to 1 January than 31 December, but in any case they would be complying with the provisions of the law. And I finish: here there are no timos or timados, Mr. Otero, we're going to go little by little, we're going to do things right. If then we have to sink together already we will sink together, don't have a problem, but don't want you to run too much, because then things go wrong. And I'm going to tell you more: you know perfectly well what time we're at, right? The Government, as far as I know, is late at the moment to amend its budgets; now it is up to you, you, to do so. If you think that somehow has to be reflected there, I think it's complicated, but there you have your chance. I'll throw them the glove, and we'll see from here to Innocent Day what we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u23	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Otero, indeed, there was a time when the PNV governments gave courage to the word, but to find that you have to go back to the last century, at least. Indeed, as has already been said, this law, which was passed in February, has its main objectives. Among the many that it has is the compliance with European rules in terms of energy efficiency in the use of energy and the promotion of savings, the implementation of renewable energies, the gradual decoupling of fossil energy production, the promotion of sustainable mobility, the reduction of the energy bill of public administrations, economic activities and the residential sector, the integration of the requirements arising from energy sustainability in the various public policies and, in particular, in those of land management, urban planning, housing, transport, industry and energy. Main objectives; among others, in general terms this law refers to the exemplary role of the Administration, of the Basque public administrations. Well, you have already shown with your initiative that by exemplifying nothing, we failed in the beginning; therefore, here we are already failing to comply with the law. In order to achieve these objectives of energy sustainability, it is necessary to implement the mandatory measures laid down in this law and the regulations to be developed. The law also states that, in accordance with the principles underlying this law, the instruments of land management, urban planning and transport infrastructure must have the corresponding study of energy sustainability, and that these studies will include detailed assessments of all aspects that influence these management tools, specifically knowing where we are sustainable and where we fail, in order to be able to improve, right? The first 28 articles are duties and commitments for the administrations, from the autonomous to the municipal, and their public sector companies. Establishment of sustainability commissions, which are responsible for making inventories in their buildings, of the mobile park, of the public lighting facilities, through the inventory of consumptions and their control. In one year – which is due to be completed in February – since its approval, all buildings and facilities of public administrations must have electrical energy meters with remote measurement capability installed. The control of energy consumption per building, including the consumption of all energy used and its economic cost, shall be carried out once a year on a monthly basis. "All administrations will have to design their own energy action plans on a multi-annual basis...", but they have to do so in the first year – this house too, by the way; I don't know if it has started – that they contain assessment and diagnosis of their situation, and they must meet the objectives I told them before. The Autonomous Administration, the University, the territorial administrations and the municipalities will have approved their plans within one year of the entry into force of the law. For municipalities less than 5,000 inhabitants, the plans must be regional. For this we will have the instruction guide that must be prepared from the Energy Directorate, which I do not know if it is. The use of renewable energy, the renovation of facilities, equipment, fleets of vehicles, mobility plans for all municipalities over 5,000 inhabitants. In the first year. All this must be done in the first year – the law says –, the energy rating of all public buildings and be recorded in the corresponding register. As of 2020, 100% of vehicles purchased from 1 January by Basque public administrations will have to use alternative fuels, which are not particularly cheaper, are somewhat more expensive, right? All this, as I told you, in the first year – which is completed in two months – and for all administrations. Measures, all of them, require a significant increase in technical, human and economic resources. And that is why, in fact, this law has the fifth additional provision (Financial instrument to support local institutions), which, in fact, says that "In the immediate subsequent budget year" – which is where we are currently working, we have it on top of our tables, right? – that in this budget year, "the Basque Government, in order to facilitate the investments to be made in its application" – in addition to being exemplary commits itself to putting a start, but also exemplary, which says it among the objectives, right? – "... will constitute a financial tool for the support of local entities", that that financial tool "... shall be constituted with a minimum amount of EUR 100 million", minimum "From there up, whatever you want, but that's the least." That "the tool will be reconstituted by means of the return of the aid received by the administrations that receive prior funding, depending on the returns derived from energy savings". What we could call a reincorporable fund, which must be drawn up, must be done, we must see what the conditions, the requirements of access, the procedures of subscription, of reimbursement, the advances are going to be. That is, it is not only the departure; it is the elaboration of the text, so that it will come into operation on 1 January. They didn't. That doesn't cost money, it doesn't have to be in the Budgets, it has to have been worked out. In addition to the game you need that, because you can put the start, but if you don't have it elaborated, you won't be able to apply it in life. And what have you done this year? Well, nothing. They've done absolutely nothing. So, exemplifying, nothing. Obligations for the municipalities, because this legislature, every regulation they bring, every law that is passed here –which is less bad than there have been few – it is to bear responsibilities over the municipalities, over and over again, that need more economic, human, technical means... And, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a disproportionate amount. The other day you brought in a mayor of your party and already exposed, right?, the problems that the municipalities have. But it's that, besides, here they charge them again, and they also say, "No, I'm going to help you," but they don't execute it. Look, really, it's terrible. And, of course, the lady advisor at the interpellation is fantastic, isn't she, because she gets the 100 million back. And now we've got the 100 million, which is like the magic bayeta, it's worth everything, but come on, it's not spending one on what's right. He dedicates it to other things, but not here, right? And I've already told you once, but it's that the millions get to this basket tomorrow, to give the immediate answer, put them in the other, and there it is. No, it has not developed the reintegrative fund; therefore, it has no possibility of implementing it. And it's just that you have to do it, you have to do it because you've been committed by law, and it's not... And I think that nothing can be available at this time, because, if it is not regulated, of course, it will not be by 1 January. And we'll see if by January 1, 2021; probably not either. They're gonna make up another story, but they're not gonna comply with the law. I've got it very clearly. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u25	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing on the answering shift, Mr. Otero, Unite the EH team as representative. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u26	Mr Grajales, what is going to happen in the budget year immediately after the adoption of the law, which is this, is determined in this draft budget law, in this one. It's not worth telling me that there will be, that you will have patience, that everything will be... Moreover, the more I listen to them, the more serious it seems to me. You say you're proud of the deal. I'm on a deal, too. It's a problem not keeping the deal, it's not a deal. With no agreement. You tell me that your amendment says exactly the same as the law. Yeah, sure. If you cut the part where you say that the fund has to have 100 million euros, of course you say the same thing. They're putting in the 100 million euros, because they're not on their way. He forgets his endowment. And you still have the..., I don't know what to call it, you have the ability to pass the ball to the city halls, saying, "It's that they have to make the mobility plans, they have to make..." Listen, listen, listen. You don't tell the city halls what they have to do. You do what you have to do, which is put the 100 million euros on the table, and then the municipalities... The Government, the Government. So I, reassure, impossible, with this attitude. You tell me the law will be enforced. Watch out! Someone's lying here. I don't know, I don't know who everyone is: Azpiazu, Tapia or you. Someone is lying, because you say it will be enforced and in the amount of 100 million set. Bai, bathe on the horrella iz, and? Tapia andreak interpelazioan esan zona from "It will be available". When it refers to "The 100 million euros will be available" ederki dakizu gauza hori, trena, atera daitekeela ejertzizio deberdinetan, urte deberdinetan eginda, oraindik ez dakigunean zer zatik izango duen subentzioa eta zeink prestatuko mallegu hori. Eta ez hori Bakarrik. Esaten Zenuen: "Dirua Finantzen Euskal Institutuan dago. 102 milio daude, zati bat Finkatuz funtserako eta beasts zati bat malegu desberdinak egin ahal izazko". A, claro! Eta Aurrekontuetan jartzen dituzue, hor bai, Finkatuz-erako zer don. "Program 7212-Industrial Development and Support for Entrepreneurs". Start-up date: "Instituto Vasco de Finanzas, Programo de credites a empresas, 100 million euros". This is what goes to Finkatuz. And Tapia tells us that there are 102 million euros. And 100 go to Finkatuz in this budget appropriation, or at least so it appears. So you'll tell me how you're going to paint the 100 million that you say you're going to put for the development of the Energy Sustainability Act, when 100 million are committed budget for the Finkatuz fund. You have two left, according to this account you have two left. And it's a very simple account. So, of course, I hare, you turtle... Of course, turtle is one thing and another thing is that we all know that the proportion of investment per year in local administrations is about 60 million euros and then it turns out that in the Azpiazu budget negotiation we are told that there are already 17 million in the EVE, which is enough for what there is. How's that enough? What is not being said is that in no case do they intend to put the money. "The government committed itself," Mrs. Red told me. The Government committed itself, yes, to putting the 100 million in. That's what he's committed to. Not just to create the fund. You say the funds are difficult. Here's the money for Finkatuz. They have had 21 months since Mr Becerra had already agreed in February 2018..., because the law was passed in February 2019, but in February 2018 the amendment was already agreed that the tool, the financial instrument, had to be created. 21 months since that was remembered. And now they tell us, Tapia tells us that we have to talk to Eudel, that we have to see what the... Please, please, it is that there has been no will, it is that there is no intention to put that money. We can be yellow, so... , We can yellow (Barreak) That you, in this fable of animals going out, you have a problem, which is to swallow frogs. Sure, sure. You're swallowing frogs and you're saying that climate-friendly budgets are good in which you're included – and we'll talk about it tomorrow – the TAV, the renewed plan for diesel, and it's included a little bit of everything. And you're gonna have to swallow one frog behind another. And this attitude has reminded me – and I will end this – one thing... , it's hard what I'm going to say, but I think I have to tell you this out of political honesty. There's a scene, there's a scene that's already legendary from the "The Wire" series. It has become a bit of a metaphor for what you would want to do and what you do. There's a scene where Tony, the ex-mayor of Baltimore, tells the guy who recently won the Democratic primaries what is the essence of politics. "The essence of politics, rule," he says, "is to drink one cup of shit after another." And I don't know how many cups you're willing to drink. You will know the reasons and what you want. I'm just asking you for a favor, I'm just asking you for a favor. To call things by their name... lehendakariak Please finish... May the President of the Thurbets be at large. Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours. becer carollo Now, the $100 million you negotiated with the government, not with me. Don't ask me, ask the government. We agree that they should be put in place, that they should be put in place, because, if we adopt the law, we approve it all, including the provision. But it's that 100 million, one thing is money and another thing is the game, let's not confuse... I'm not a budget technician, but if you make a grant line, you actually have to make a $100 million envelope. But if you make an instrument that is a loan, you don't have to come up with a $100 million item. And I am not a technician, but if it has been said here – Mrs Red said and Mrs Tapia said – that the Basque Institute of Finance will make some repayable loans, I do not know what they are going to do, because in the Budget Act it does not appear; for if technically they do not have to appear 100 million, do not make me commulgate with mill wheels and do not mix neither the political ecology, neither the green nor the green. The other day, yesterday, a colleague of yours, Mr Casanova, gave certificates of good ecology, and our group did not give it to us. So, be consistent, look for someone who has the certificate of good ecology, who seems to have only you, and make an amendment with them. What are we going to do to him!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u27	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo won't speak. Mr. Grivorouss, Eubertarians. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u28	Thank you again, Mrs. Chairman. Very short. I think I've already explained it in this rostrum. Someone will see it. Surely it will not be me, but in twenty years' time some member of the People's Group will come, or whatever it is in twenty years' time, and he will say: "That government, twenty years ago, did have a word, not like those of today. Man, where it's going!". Look, Mr. Otero, really, I don't like to talk more than necessary, I'm a person of few words, and today I have the feeling that we're talking about a problem that really doesn't exist. You have felt deceived, you feel groped, you come here, you repeat more than eight times "You tell us, you tell us, you tell us", and you say things that none of us, nor Mr Azpiazu, nor Mrs Tapia nor myself, have said to you; that is, you create the problem, you do your own readings of what the problem is and you come here to pose it and you accuse us, that is, "Well, yes, indeed, with respect to the deadline you in your amendment do put...". What do they say? Exactly what the law says: "In the budget year immediately following the entry into force of the law", literally. "Ah! But they don't put the 100 million." And now it's when I... well, now we're going to proceed, we're going to vote and so on, but then I'm going to come down here and ask the lawyer to see when a non-law proposal can come up with a law. It's the law that has the prevalence, it's the law that says what it says. And I, in the PNL, say, "Complete the law," and I also say it within the time limit set by the law itself; that is, I have not just seen where the problem is, I really tell you, I really tell you. What I'm telling you is to rule... I don't know, I don't know if that's what you say they say in that show that you've made us a little spoiler. And seriously, I don't know if this is about who's more, who's less, if we're running a race... We in that sense have no problem, we know that for you we will always be the least we do and the least the first ones in I don't know what. Now, if it's true what that series says, that from time to time you have to take a little bit of something, we will take it from time to time. You, of course, do not, so year after year, year after year you turn your back on the budgetary procedure, year after year you are the most champions in this and other matters, but instead of impacting on the life of the country, instead of impacting on the future of the country, you prefer to stay talking from the rostrum saying that you are the champions, but in irrelevant. But, well, that's already your thing and your political directions, and I'm not going to go in there; but, in any case, I do think that you don't do more for the energy transition, for any topic, the one that talks more about the energy transition or any topic, but the one that gets more involved and the one that does more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u29	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Basque Popular. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u30	Mr Grajales, thank you very much for clarifying that they are not reliable; thank you very much for clarifying that you are committed to what you cannot execute, to what you cannot do; thank you very much, you yourself have said it, and you have also taken a certain habit, you do not even get colored. Look, the Basque Institute of Finance, three items, three items: Participation in companies Finkatuz; another item, Participation in companies, and another item, Credits, loans and advances repayable to companies. Not a euro to finance municipalities. Not a euro for public institutions. Not a euro for the whole of 2020. So, what are you talking about? It's just curious! She said in the interpellation: "We don't know how much the municipalities are going to need! Of course, because the bill that enters as a bill, therefore, is not based on any prior evaluation report." No, no, They did... "Here I catch you, here I kill you," putting amendments in a bad way... The government, 40 amendments, which I have already criticized in its day how to deal with this, a short and stick to save the moment and comply with the European directive, and that is why we are as we are. And then he spoke in the interpellation that, of course, they doubt the ability of the municipalities to borrow. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have said this before: what legislature we carry with us is a burden of action on the municipalities, for which they have no capacity. Well, they don't lie that much. They lie and don't blush! They have too much habit. As I was saying, he told us they're not reliable, and I agree with you on this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u31	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. [[Pause]] After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Otero Gabirida. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 18; contraries, 37; abstainments, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u32	So, not allowed original text. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; contraries, 64; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u33	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Finally, the Eucabertians and the Basque Socialists vote the whole correction of the teams. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 37; the abstainations 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u34	Since it's a draw, we'll vote again. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37; the contrary, 37; the abstainations 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u35	It's a draw, so we'll leave it for the next round meeting. Third point in theme list: "Motion, Eukene Arana Varas, introduced together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos, with regard to the memory, confession, and observation of the field of violence. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Ms. Arana, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u36	Good morning, ma'am, boardmasters, members of the legislature, chief departments, Mr. President. I open today's plenary by remembering and doing an act of memory to sisters, friends, cousins, neighbors, daughters, mothers. There are not all of them, nor are they all: Anintzane Garai; Maria Izaskun Kimenez Borja; Mari Luz Alejo; Amelia Rodríguez; Ofelia Hernández; Sandra; Ana María; Elvira L. G.; Almudena Matarranz; Noelia; Noemi; Amaya; Seydel M. G.; Idoia Barba; Jenny Rebollo; Mauren Ada Otuya; Deisy Mendoza; Maget Mbeugou; Loredana Andriescu; M. V. L.; Leire Fernández; Amagoia Elezkano Corchon; María Teresa Egurrola; Andina Reyes Pereira; Alicia, 17 months; Yaiza, 3 years; Sophia Lösche, Raquel López Árias, Sofia Taro, Ana Belén Jiménez Hurtado, Paola Moromenacho, Asun Villalba, Ana Isabel Madariaga, Rosa Lidia, and many other women who have been in Eudiska. We are convinced that on the road to a more just, more egalitarian society, to building and defending inclusive coexistence, based on the defence of human rights and peace, it is absolutely essential that the institutions reaffirm the consensus reached so far and confront with new measures and diverse policies the Machist violence. Prevention, care, protection, reparation and guarantee of non-repetition are all essential for a comprehensive policy in this area. However, we believe that the Government has placed more emphasis on some than others. So far, memory, recognition and reparation have somehow been relegated. That is why we have brought this initiative today to Parliament and to all the institutions in which we are represented, in memory of all those women and many others we are no longer talking about. One day we kept minutes of silence and, today, nothing. Some actions in relation to memory are being carried out from the institutions, but they are still punctual, dispersed and not framed in a far-reaching public policy. Last weekend, at the request of neighbors who collected 3,600 signatures, Nagore Laffage Casasola was named after a park in Irun. The mother, Asun Casasola, a clear reference to how from pain one can make memory and pedagogy, said in some statements: "Here in Irun, they resist to forget. They want to keep the memory alive so that cases like this don't happen again. It's a small act, but very symbolic. I believe that for society it is important; everything that you don't see is forgotten. Everyone who asks now or in a few years who Nagore was will be told." Asun Casasola in a few words explained very well how important it is for a people not to forget, to visualize and to bring to public space and collective memory the victims and survivors of Machist violence. Machist violence is a systematic and structural violation of human rights, that is, it is organized and established within the macho social structure, and, therefore, still played on numerous occasions by specific people in what is called private relations. Its explanation also has to do with society, and because they are a violation of human rights it is necessary to make historical and collective memory, recognition and reparation for all victims. It is a constant human rights violation that undermines freedom, coexistence and has very serious consequences for women, their families and society as a whole. And I will not tire of repeating the times when the figures of shame are needed, those that bring us closer to an invisible reality: in Euskadi, throughout 2018, the Ertzaintza recorded 2,989 women who were assaulted by their partner or ex-partner, another 870 women who were victims of violence by some man in their family, and 385 more women who suffered sexual violence outside the family sphere. In total, 4,244 women victims of violence against them in the period of one year, 224 more women than in 2017. And the number of complaints – which we know are not all – increases. And this number of complaints increases because women continue to conquer rights and freedoms, they are, we are losing the fear of reporting violence, they are organized: plural, diverse, older, adolescents, trans, lesbian, bisexual, racialized, domestic workers, self-employed or employed, precarious, pensioners, students, etc.; they find and weave alliances in a feminist movement that amplifies voices and demands. Women are making qualitative leaps and, as I say, advance and overflow traditional forms. They are paving the way for a more just society, a society that puts lives at the centre and free from sexist violence. And it's up to us all who are here today to listen to them. Society as a whole is increasingly sensitive and aware, and more and more women decide to take the step to denounce, even though institutions are not yet ready to give them a guarantee of non-revictimization. With these data on complaints in hand, which still do not reflect – I repeat: do not reflect – the whole reality, 15 women are attacked every day in Euskadi. In what we carry fully two women have been assaulted in Euskadi. In short, it is clearly a constant and systematic violation of the human rights of half the population. Carmen Bernat Mateu, researcher at the University of Valencia, wrote about the need for memory about Machist violence and said: "Generally, the studies on memory and historical memory movements are again focused on political events that had a huge social impact in their context and a character, generally dictatorial, repressive and violent. Violence resulting from gender oppression is constant and unspeakable, as it does not respond to a coup d'état or a concrete political event. A memory of systematic violence is needed, not only of violence and oppression, but also of daily, individual, collective, anonymous, common, simple and organized resistance. Memory is an instrument for transformation, it has the power to contribute to the change of the normative order, because it has the ability to shape and permeate individual identities and collective action." This is what we understand from Elkarrekin Podemos, and we recognize that some step has been taken in this direction. However, so far, the victims have not been placed in the collective or historical memory, despite the potential of the latter to transform. There is still a great field of work to explore and advance in policies of memory, recognition and reparation in this area. The reparation, recognition and memory of women who have suffered machist violence must be part of comprehensive care, and it is a fundamental tool for spreading a culture of human rights and building a society free of machist violence. We have just commemorated the International Day against Machist Violence and, from Elkarrekin We believe that on these dates all parties, all the political representations that we are here, must renew our firm commitment to the rights and freedoms of all women, girls, adolescents, young people and adults. And we continue to work, and we will continue to work, with concrete proposals and initiatives, with agreements (small, large, broad) and new debates to achieve a society free from all kinds of Machist violence. From this initiative and from the agreement that we have reached, we are taking – we believe – a great step forward to begin a public policy of memory and recognition, essential to move towards a society free of Machist violence, to move towards a Euskadi free of Machist violence. We welcome the agreement reached today and we welcome the fact that this Parliament, step by step, demonstrates its commitment to the eradication of Machist violence and to the memory of all those women who are no longer with us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u37	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Well, we're arguing about this again. It is true that a few days ago we had a precise time to remember again the violence of women, and especially the commitment to public institutions, the precise and firm engagement to remember. And this engagement ought to be directed in particular actions, and in particular propositions, in different parts, as the Populous party has always defended it. As I said recently, we commemorated, on 25 November, the International Day against Gender Violence, against Violence against Women. And I think it is a day, of course, to reaffirm the commitment of the whole of society to the fight against this scourge, but it not only has to be the commitment that lasts one day, but, of course, it has to be extended to every day of the year. And I believe that it is also – and it is a statement that I usually make, I have made in this rostrum and in numerous statements when I speak about this issue – that it is something that has to be done to us by the whole of society and that we are in fact responsible to the whole of society as a whole, not only to women, but also to men. And of course the success that we can fight this scourge and take small steps is a success and it will be a collective success, of all, if we manage to involve the whole of society. Recently, on the occasion of this day's commemoration, specifically a week ago, I had the opportunity to participate in a forum, to which I was invited, of an important association working at the national level, Women for Equality. And the truth is, it was a very interesting talk, because we were people from different backgrounds. And at that table, in that forum, the issue of gender-based violence was addressed from different perspectives. But, while it was approached from different perspectives, it is true that there was a coincidence in fundamental aspects that we must bear in mind when we talk about violence against women. We were talking about awareness, we were talking about visibility, we were talking about the role of education, of educating in respect, of educating in tolerance. And that is, of course, done with specific programmes from the educational field. We were talking about the problem – and also several people, and we also had the opportunity to have among us members of the state security forces and bodies – which is also assuming the inappropriate use of new technologies, with a consumption of pornography that, obviously, as we are also seeing in some speech in this Parliament, this kind of consumption, without a doubt, also makes a dent in certain behaviors. We were also talking about the importance of prevention, and we were also talking about the importance of protection. In this regard, I would like to point out, because I also think it is fair to recall the things that have been done well, the Law 27/2003 of 31 July, which regulated protection orders, which established a status of comprehensive protection for gender victims by the adoption by the competent court of the precise precautionary measures. I believe that this really meant a before and after also in the fight against gender-based violence. Another important issue, as well as another important milestone, is the 2004 Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence, but it is true that, after ten years, the Observatory on Gender Violence and the General Council of the Judiciary also announced the need to implement and address this issue with new legislative reforms. We also have to say that we found the Organic Law 1/2015, reforming the Criminal Code important, which clearly, with some of its predictions, strengthens the protection of victims of gender-based violence, introducing, for example, the aggravating gender, a new type of harassment, harassment and stalking, punishing unauthorized disclosure of images when someone is recorded in a certain situation, consented, but then that image is disclosed; and not only to the person who disclosed it, who has participated in that situation, but then, when that image or situation is disclosed, it will also be punished to those who disclose those images at later times. The issue of reviewable permanent prison, also in certain cases related to gender-based violence. Well, then there was, besides, a murder... I also think it is important to note the 2017 State Pact against Gender Violence. And I especially want to quote this pact because it was in the hands of consensus. When things have gone hand in hand with consensus, they have gone reasonably well, and I think it is important that all the different institutions commit themselves to gender-based violence when this pact is signed. Finally, I also wanted to quote another organic law, the Organic Law 8/2015, amending the Law on Protection of Children and Adolescents, which recognizes – and I think this was also a repeated demand, above all, by the experts working on this issue – minors as victims of gender-based violence. Thus far, children who were victims of gender-based violence were not recognized as gender-based victims, and this simply meant that children who were victims of gender-based violence were left, for example, without assistance. I think that too has taken a rather important step. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that, while much remains to be done, I believe it is also fair to recognize that this society, also, that the various institutions, the various political parties have lived up to the circumstances by arbitrating the mechanisms necessary to combat gender-based violence. In view of this initiative, I have to say that on the one hand we share the substance – of course, how we cannot share that the situation of a victim of gender-based violence is being repaired – but it seemed more timely to us, too, on the line of this initiative, to go into practice, and in this sense we are presenting our amendment in its entirety. On the one hand, we ask the Basque Government to refer the bill amending the Equality Act. We all know that this Government's commitment was to forward a specific bill for the eradication of violence against women. In the end, the reflection that has taken place in the Government itself has led to the conclusion that it is better to amend the Equality Act, but that bill that was committed for the second quarter of 2018 has not yet been approved in the Governing Council, and has therefore not been referred to this House. We therefore believe that, above all, in view of the fact that the legislature is in the final stages, it would be highly desirable for the Basque Government to adopt this bill to amend the Equality Act as soon as possible. And for that purpose, I believe it is important to strengthen all programmes relating to prevention, awareness-raising, care and protection of victims. And in order to put educational policies at the centre of policies against gender violence, we also consider it essential to strengthen all educational programmes and to enhance education in values such as respect, tolerance, solidarity, justice and equality. We have not finally signed the compromise amendment because, obviously, it still seems a bit generic to us. The part referring to the 2005 Bill has been included in the reference to the reference to the 2005 Bill. I think it is also something that is logical, we have also incorporated it in other debates on this issue. I am saying, of course, that we are not going to vote against it, but we would also have liked a greater degree of concreteness on one of the points and, well, that some more of the issues to which we referred in our amendment would have been incorporated. I believe that in these debates we are exposed to our engagement, but our engagement, and our commitment to all, must be directed with certain actions. And that, after all, was the plan of the Popula Party in presenting our full correction. That's all, thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours. houserary legrand I've often spoken to you about all the things we've done when I was in the feminist movement of Irun, and I wanted to bring one of them up today because it has a lot to do with the subject. In Irunen, Irungo, we started a job to recover the history of feminist or women in time. Merche Tranche, people around here can recognize him. He's one of those wise women who's got the brains in books, who's done a lot of work to get their memory back. And he gave us several keys. And one of them was matchesmakers. In Irun there was a match factory, and here, during the franchise, there were women who worked. And their story seemed very interesting to us, but if you like, I'll tell you more about it in a cup of coffee. What I wanted to say was that once we had a show in town with pictures of them and other women in Irungo. And a woman came up to me and said: "Pospolomakers. We used to talk very badly about them at home. Las Ilamámos, whores... "I don't know. And she told me how because she was the head of the family, because she had no husband, they called them whores for working out of the house, they were banished from the village. And this I have brought because at this moment we are speaking of memory I want to problematize, or to place my memory in the centre of the discussion, to which we give memory, how far we lead the memory. And when we talk of violence, what do we understand as violence, how far we will go back to do it in history? And Ms. Arana also mentioned Irun, and last week Nagore Laffage offered a square. But I want to remind him that the achievement of this has been due to Nagore Laffage's mother, the struggle for the Casastola, the feminist movement of the place for years, because the feminist movement had led him into town and to the City Hall to have a space for Nagore Laffage. And I want to remind myself of this because I want to insist on how this point and achievement start, too. It does not start from an institution; it is a process starting from feminis and organization. And the recovery of memory is something that must be socially started, because institutions can do whatever they want, but if they're not willing to take it, they're willing to work around it, and there's no one ready to give them that memory. Zuriñe Rodriguez Pikara Magazine- In addition to denouncing the horrors of the war, Salvadoran activist Gloria Guzmán says that memorials act as physical spaces for encounters between victims who help to repair their pain, especially that of relatives of missing persons, and perform a pedagogical function for future generations. Guzman participated fully in the construction of the Memorial to the Memory and Truth of El Salvador. It was led by women victims, human rights defenders and feminist activists. She says: "We organized ourselves after the peace signatories ignored the recommendations made by the United Nations to build the memorial." Who starts these processes? And that's what we had on our points five and six. We think it's very important to break the process, which begins in the feminist movements of the people, or in social and memoirs, and to give them the means, because they have often had difficulty in obtaining the place they wanted at the time of demand for public space. We've got to get these local practice back, find out. We've got Ermua, the Ondari, we've got the jackals too. The maps of many steps, the maps of footprints, had been conducted in the past few years by researchers like Luz Maceira, who had gathered in these countries the memory of women's memory and of the victims of women. But in a wide way, and not only by inserting this view of the victims, or introducing the view of the dead, which is very important, but which we must bring together with the others. Well, to finish, he had a lot to comment on, but Julia Monge remembered that in 2016, in the town of Azkoien, in the Ribera Navarra, a sculpture was made that honored the women who resisted extrajudicial executions, haircuts and humiliations during the war. It was an initiative of the Women with Memory Association, and its funding was self-managed. The memorial was made up of three women who wear wide skirts in which they keep stones, stones that carry messages that have previously been written by the neighbors, or that have arrived from any point of Euskal Herria. For Monge, it is a special memorial for the participatory nature of the process and because it allows to repair the victims, while being didactic in the transmission. On the other hand, as I said, women-led processes often find obstacles when it comes to negotiating with institutional and political actors, who can jeopardize the visibility of the memorial. Sometimes, all these expert women who have worked on these processes say that the places proposed by the institutions do not coincide with the complaints or demands made by women, who demand central and quiet places, such as public parks. "In San Salvador we were offered a cemetery for the monument," Guzmán recalls with anger, but today the monument is in Cuscatlán Park, and has become a therapeutic place for the victims." But, instead, when the construction is done from top to bottom, it endangers the legitimacy of the memorial. This is the case of the monument to the women of the memory of Chile, endorsed by the State, which reminds women victims of political repression, but which is practically abandoned. It is also the case of the memorial to the victims of feminicides in Ciudad Juárez. It is a monument within the framework of the sentence imposed by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights on the Mexican State. According to this sentence, on the one hand, the State had to compensate the families of seven victims and, on the other, to carry out a public act. Money is nowhere to be found, and that is what we were putting in our second point: that reparation be economic for the people who survived and for the families of the people who were killed. Because without any kind of economic aid, without any kind of benefit to be able to develop these life projects and to develop their life after these traumatic situations, it will be very difficult for them themselves to be able to participate in the elaboration of the need for these spaces. Because without them it's not possible. And in the end, Gloria Guzman said that memory must go beyond official versions of public space, and insisting on the wars that women have had in the wars now. And we turn it over today: not only do we suppose that it is necessary to recover those past memories, because they are in a full cycle and in a whole history a chain-end. Therefore, because we believe that this proposal should be started from the councils, from the feminist processes, and because we thought it necessary to have money and some economic part of it; none of which, as we have seen it, has been introduced in it alone, we have not...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u39	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u40	We're not gonna protect him. And I'm gonna focus more on the answer shift because I'm a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u42	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all again. One more plenary in which we have sexist violence as a topic for discussion. It is true that these initiatives usually end with a vote in which an agreement always comes out, sometimes with more votes than others, and this time it is true that we would like the votes in favour to be more, because it is true that Mrs Etxebarrieta always makes contributions that end up being part of the final agreement, and EH Bildu on this occasion does not agree with what we have agreed three parliamentary groups. As Lehendakari began her intervention by responding to Mrs Arana in an inquiry, she stated that the process of intervention with victims of male violence must include the principle of reparation at all stages. The Basque Government works in all areas related to male-based violence. It is a cross-cutting issue and there are many departments involved, each one of which is competent, from prevention to complete actions. We therefore understand that the Basque Government and the political parties represented here have a commitment that is, of course, undeniable. Moreover, this can be extended if we look outside this institution, because Basque society is involved and is increasingly demanding in what has to do with the reparation of everything that happens to the victims of macho violence; of course, all the institutions involved, understanding the municipalities as one of the most important managers for this, and there is nothing more to talk about this week's event with the theme of Irún, in which, of course, the Nagore family is the first responsible for what has happened – therefore, the success is of their family – but it must be acknowledged that all the parties involved in the municipality have participated and supported this initiative that would hopefully be extended to the rest of the Basque municipalities. All the actions the Administration does have something to do with this. As far as Justice is concerned, we have already spoken in this Parliament; as far as GIR and economic aid are concerned, we have also spoken, and I believe that no one denies that things are actually being done. We all seek to prevent revictimization, which is what we end up worrying about in each of the initiatives we are debating in this House. Many things have been done in Euskadi – I believe it is undeniable – but when we are forced to repeat these debates over and over again, we must recognise that much remains to be done. We are awaiting the amendment of the law that Mrs Garrido was talking about. It is the seventh equality plan to which the Lehendakari referred in that plenary, and the economic measures, which, of course, must be implemented because they do not end up being enough, and I share with Mrs Etxebarrieta that it is very difficult to continue or start your life project when you have been the victim of something as vile as macho violence. Once again we share the background of the motion. Probably, listening to the proposer of the initiative, almost, the others should do nothing but explain the vote for or against, because although we repeat this topic always new things appear, always appear testimonies, and, of course, it is almost... I say not to invent, but it is difficult to prepare initiatives in what has to do with sexist violence. Today's initiative is aimed at supporting measures in favour of memory, recognition and reparation in the face of macho violence, and I also believe that the Government is taking action in this context. Those of us who are part of one of the presentations that were created at the end of the legislature have heard over and over again the need to work in the educational field. We can implement measures in justice, we can work on economic measures, but if we do not start working in the educational field, we will not finish this. The II Co-education Plan for the Basque educational system on the road to equality and good treatment 2019-2023 already set strategic objectives for the school of the future; after the completion of a diagnosis, clear conclusions are reached. Therefore, the Socialist Group's view is that we must continue to work on everything, but we should focus our efforts in the Department of Education, because that is where the problem begins and that is where I think it is not coming; for, I do not know if it is necessary to start earlier, if it is not actually doing everything that needs to be done, but I think that is in the right. From the Socialist Group we will support the agreement reached, because we understand that this issue should have the agreement as the final objective, because it is much more what unites us than what separates us – in the eyes of the eyes it is – and because macho violence is part of the day-to-day life of Basque society as well as of the rest of society, and it is our responsibility to work on the policies necessary to eradicate it. Because devoting efforts to the memory, recognition and reparation of violence is an ethical commitment, no longer just political, for my parliamentary group. I therefore hope that one day we will no longer need to discuss this issue, and I hope that on more than one occasion – because there are not many – agreements on initiatives relating to male violence will end up being voted unanimously by this House. Because, as we said, a few weeks ago, when we were participating in five speakers in this House in a debate about politics and women, if we do not finish agreeing, it is difficult to achieve the ultimate goal; because this is a matter for everyone, but – with respect for them – it is much more of a problem for us than a problem for them. I hope, therefore, that we will be able to understand each other, because we are much more in agreement with everything, although then it is difficult, when it comes to drafting the amendments or the agreements. When we discuss and put on the table what concerns us, we are all concerned about the same thing, and although some are committed to putting the whole society as the victim of this problem, there is nothing more to see than the data, there is nothing more to see the news, and the percentage of women, of course, is much more bloody. It is a problem for all of us, but it is true that we are sometimes able to humanize politics and reach agreements. And I hope, on the next few occasions, that unanimity will be the result of the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u43	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Even today, we come with a subject of machista violence, represented in this case as a motive. I should like to begin this inventory in a different tone, but unfortunately, on Monday we celebrated on the day of the opposition of women, on that particular day, we met with the 52th wife of the Spanish State, and one reason more, to give us the importance of this subject which we now bring. This honetan eduki dugun Giza Eskubideen eta Berdintasun Batzordean, bertan eduki genuen gondidatu batek esaldi bat esan zuen, eta, well, esaldi hori gelditu zitzaidan eta hona ekarri nahiko nuke. Batzorde horretan egon ginenok badakigu gondidatu horrek beast kontestu batan kokatzen zuelela esaldia, gure gure gaira zuzentzen badugu, strapolatzen badugu, zeresan handia eduki dezake eta erreflexiorako puntu gerta daiteke, baita ére. Berak esaldi hau esaten zuen: "The common has become extraordinary and the extraordinary has become common. What should be common, that is, respect for all, reprimanding all kinds of violence against women by the whole of society, unfortunately, has become extraordinary by one side. That is why from the institutions, also from the various actors, associations and, ultimately, from the whole of society, we must combat these kinds of actions of human rights violation that fall on women only because of the mere fact of being so, protecting them and preserving their memory and recognition." As we mentioned last week's entire check meeting, violence has become one of the principal concerns of society. We cannot forget, as I have said, that we are in the presence of a watering of human rights, a violation of the rights of which we are peculiarly to protect; and, moreover, of all the violence which women suffer only from being women. In this struggle for destroying this violence against women, in the reconnaissance of these victims, we must continue to work in memory and observation, always protecting their own integration, and avoiding recovery. From the justification of this motion given by Podemos together, there are many assertions that lead us to agree. We must place all our efforts to protect these victims, to assist them in their care, and to show them that we are with them; in short, to preserve their memory, and to strengthen them. In this sense, and as Mrs. Arana has said, great progress has been made, as it is asserted, to accept violence as a machination of rights, especially in the Euskana mad. It is true that we have still a great deal of work before us, and as President Urkullu said last week's check meeting, we are not satisfied. Therefore the most important foundation of our middle course is to keep working to protect the victims of violent curses against women, with their memory, their reconnaissance, and their attention always considered. As Miss Rojo has said, the interference which is made upon the machison of violence must involve the principle of observation in all its stages, as all regulations and external considerations are referred to. In this sense, M. M.M. has confirmed his commitment in every part of the process, prevention, caution, protection, co-ordination, and justice. This is the seventh point of the equality of Women and Men's Arts. For the first time in the plan, M. M.M. has taken notice of this pain; in particular, to ensure the individual observation of that pain which the women have suffered to escape from the state of violence, and the right to collective observation, in order to avoid just as I have said. And that's where we have to go. Another aim of this plan is to increase the public actions, which imply the rejection of violence against women, by giving these victims a voice, in order to ensure the extent of the reality of the situation, and to guarantee the social dependence of the living. With all this in mind, we'll take half-way with Podemos and Basque Socialists together. I'd rather say thanks to Mrs. Arana and to all of us who've been working to find this arrangement. We believe it is a very important and extensive agreement, especially because we place it in the centre, in respect and protection of women who have been victims of the machista violence, and because it opens the opportunity to cultivate different ways. At the first point of this middle course, we clearly admit that we accept the surrender of the victims of the machison violence by pushing them to protect them from their collective and historical memory, and by encouraging their actions to publish their reality, as has hitherto been done, and to the equality of the women and men mentioned. In the same way as that which penetrates into the sphere of the planet, such as the institutional actions. All the women who have been victims to this reconnaissance, including agents in feminism, must be considered, including the development of the experiments that have lived in Eukadin. On the other hand, we endeavour to continue the operation of the innumerable materials necessary for the production of consciousness, by examining the consideration of the victims of violence, and the development of the victims in society, laws, and communications, and, as is shown in the seventh plan above mentioned, to publish that reality to the two victims. On the third side we talk about Project Fear Barik. This project has already been ten years and has become very important to break stereotypes among the young people and to detect signs of illegal violence. The Institutions, and the several members of society, certainly contract this project; so that we have endeavoured to penetrate into this middle course. By means of this project, the testimony of the victims of the machista of the machista, and of those who are expert in the matter, strengthens us by examining the means of creating material, in order to use it with young men, and to produce this consciousness among them, because we think it very important to strengthen the community which has introduced the principle of the genus among the young. We believe that at the base of the machista violence is the equality of women and men, and that we have to influence them in it, and consequently to guarantee memory and resentment. As to the last point, Mrs Garrido, as Mrs Garrido has said, the modification of the law between women and men is so often set forth in this law of law, that the change between the law of February 4/2005th, between women and men, has always been set forth, and we have always admitted, but this change of the law, like the change of any law, has its legislature, and at this time that change is in that procedure, it must, therefore, come in the phase at which it comes, and is in that phase of the Euskion. For this reason, as has been said, we shall assent to this medium, because we must continue to defend the protection of all women who have suffered violence, and their memory, their rebellion, and industry. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Passing on the answering shift, Arana shouldn't say a word. Anybody want to take the word? Garrido andrea? Okay. Well, Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u46	Yes, because I only said that I had to throw off some things that have been left to me, and to make amends for the reason that we decide today to appeal to abscessation. I think that deserves an explanation too. As I was saying in our proposal, it was important for us, and we put together some subjects that gave accuracy and concretion. These were issues of which we thought it necessary to define the frame of violence, to make it necessary to seek it; and, to finish, we spoke of the feminist autodephensa. And it's not... I don't know if a proposition received from the hair may sometimes be given. When we speak of memory and confess to the subjects, should we not also give them action, action, and active character? And in this sense, it seems to us that the importance of this formation, which we also set up here, must have been a necessary one of the problems, and that the feminist autodephensa must be beginning from the minor ages, because to strengthen these women, one of the instruments of violence which proceed from the feminists, which are given through the power of power. And we're asking you to put these power lessons in value. In this sense, this proposition, as we said when we spoke in its time, has a couple of things about which we are not convinced. One of them is to dissect the actions of confession, the institutional events, the memories of public space... We believe that they are important, but this does not at first belong to the institution. This is something belonging to feminist movement, and in countries where there is feminist movement these paths must be disturbed to do the events that will come after them. For it is often easy to put them behind the banner, and harder to work out particular propositions. That's why we brought in a few concrete suggestions. And the consideration of the victims is very important, and therefore we believe that they ought to be given to them, in addition to their consideration, to the nature of the subject. And when we talk about attention, I ask here whether they notice that. I wonder if we're ready to be what they need. Because we're used to a few classic schemes True, what matters are what they are, but there may be others, we ought to invent others, and in these we ought to begin the passage. Then, in that sense, we decided to keep our proposal, thanks to our wishes, especially to the efforts of Mrs. Arana, Iphazar, Rojo, and Garrido. And, well, today wasn't possible because we thought it needed more precision. Maybe some other time, of course, we'll find each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Did Miss Rojo want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u48	Yeah. Thank you again, President. Very briefly. I was saying in my first speech that it's starting to be a little complicated to prepare interventions to talk about everything that has to do with sexist violence. We have said this about older people, we have talked about children, teenagers, teenagers. We've done it most of all. I think, as I was saying, it's more what unites us than what separates us. And we always end up claiming that this has to be linked to economic financing, because then, many of the policies remain in the stands, remain in the electoral programs, and it turns out to be very complicated to carry them out. I think I'm overdoing it anyway. I don't even know if there is much to say, but I think that since we talk about this in all the ordinary plenary sessions and it is always on the initiative of EH Bildu or Elkarrekin Podemos, it might be time for this Parliament to adopt a country pact against macho violence. We have always talked all political parties about what was done in the Congress of Deputies. From what you do well, I think we should all learn and unite. All departments, each in their own right, end up doing things about violence against women. And perhaps it would be time to place the lehendakari to lead this country pact against macho violence, because I believe that when we end up giving up so much of a subject, it often loses importance for those who have to echo it, which is often the media. Of course, in that country pact, the feminist movement – which I think it should have – would have a leading role, each of the political parties, the government, in the responsibility it has, but perhaps it would be time to start taking a step beyond continuing to debate and debate initiatives that are not important to my party, but I think we could do something else. And when they propose country pacts for other things we all unite; so, let's see if we are able to unite in this which seems to worry us all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u49	Thank you, Miss Rojo. End of discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the middle-point that Eucators have signed. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 47; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 26.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u50	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by Eva Lopez de Lariyabe, Saez de Maturuna EHGGGD, near the register of Rioja Alavesa. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Ms. Lopez de Laroyabe, your word is to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u51	Hello, good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Today we bring this Chamber into possession of the mark of Abar Erriax. Rioja Alaves has been registered in Spanish Mark's records almost 20 years ago... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u52	Quiet, please. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u53	In the year 2017, the Ferrioxian Committee made a request to register Rioja Alaves for several uses in the European registers. In the year 2018, the Koadridil of Erriša of the Guardian Aranaba presented a resource against this request. This year, the European record announced that the party did not accept the resource which had been introduced by the party. Finally, in Europe, Erriox has officially registered as the property of the Rule Council of Rioja Alaves. You can't understand a thing like that. It's hard for me to understand too. Let me be more clear: We don't have the Ravabar Rio mark in our hands. Today we bring to this House the most important news for those who live and work in Rioja Alavesa. Today we discuss the appropriation that has made the Rioja Alavesa brand the regulatory council. And we bring not only the register but also the attitude of the regulatory council itself, not only to the Alavese wineries, but also to the Basque and Alavese institutions. An attack of great proportions and with serious consequences, also for the future. A usurpation – if not a robbery – of something more than a trademark. A usurpation of a territory, a usurpation of an identity, and a usurpation – one could also say – of five centuries of history, which is what the region Rioja Alavesa has. Because this is not about the management of a trademark, one more trademark. Here these five centuries of history are called into question. The name of the region and of those who live and work there is questioned. Rioja Alavesa is a historic region that accounts for 10% of Álava. It's a Basque region that we don't forget. And today we bring this motion here because we believe it is a very important news, if not the most, if not the most. And we are going to denounce the inadmissibility of the Rioja Regulatory Council. And I was saying it in Basque, which was hard to understand, but I am saying it in Spanish, so that I do not have the feeling of not saying it: the regulatory council attacks Araba by removing the Rioja Alavesa brand, but not for personal interests, no, no, no. These are business and, indeed, economic interests. 20 years that this brand was already registered by the regulatory board and in which, well, while the situation has been calm everything has been quiet. But it has been 20 years since Rioja Alavesa's situation gradually worsened. And I'd say we're in a pretty desperate situation now. In 1996 there were 720 wineries, more or less. In 2019 there are half. In 2019, in the same year that we are, in which there are few left, 20 family wineries have already disappeared. In these 20 years everything has been calm, no one has cared about this brand, Rioja Alavesa, but what is it? That the situation is complicated, and there is a group of Alaves family wineries who decide that this can no longer be, that their interests in the regulatory council are not represented as they should be and that they are going to take a step. In the face of despair, in the face of uncertainty, in the face of the weakness of these large groups and of this Rioja group decide to move. Two years ago, this movement went to the regulatory council, also with the support of the Basque Government, and posed a clear differentiation, a differentiation based on quality and not so much on quantity. This happens in August 2017, and the regulatory council, in response to the request for a new designation of origin, which would be Vineyards of Álava, well, at first it says yes, that it accepts it, that it will make a gesture of "good will" – and I will do so because it is in quotes – makes a gesture of "good will" and approves that same day the possibility that they will differentiate; that the wines of the area, the wines of the municipality... Well, let them differ. Everything seemed to go well, nobody moved until the next day, in fact, someone moves and the regulatory council, not content with having the Rioja Alavesa brand registered in Spain, goes to Europe and registers it there, because it thinks they come curves. And, indeed, curves come. The attitude of the regulatory board at all is of good will, and that record in Europe not only says that it is not of good will, but that it is very bad and that it does not do things at the front. And that he is also afraid, he is also afraid that suddenly someone has questioned this economic and business model, legitimate absolutely, yes, but not familiar, nor betting on the Alavesa quality – in this case, differentiated – and makes it very clear. This year, in 2019, well, it is proposed that the Quadrilla Rioja Alavesa, an agency without technical resources, without political resources, but without economic resources as well, will resort. It turns that trademark registration with an external law firm and in August all its resources are definitely rejected and it ends up confirming that the regulatory council owns and is now lord of the Rioja Alavesa brand. He said before that they have never united the institutions, and it is also that until recently we talked about..., well, until now we heard the deputy general and also here the Basque Government: "We cannot lose our name, Rioja Alavesa, well, we have to recover the name of Rioja Alavesa...". Well, then, if he was not lost, he would not have to be recovered, I say; if we have to be recovered, it is because, indeed, he is already lost. It's been 20 years, but now it's been the sumun. I have pointed out here: talking about the Rioja Regulatory Council and its attitude. It makes me even difficult to read it, because the over-limitation that you are putting forward, the prepotent attitude – I would say that it chulesque, even – and provocative, provocative, putting not only the Basque government but also the parliament, but, of course, those wineries that fight every day, but that do not fight for winning and making great profits; no, no, they fight for continuing to survive, they fight for continuing to survive. And worst of all, the government, I think, is aware of the powerless attitude of this regulatory council. And, Mrs Tapia, I thank you for coming to the end of my speech, because I had a sentence at the end for you and I thought, "If Mrs Tapia doesn't get here, who am I going to say it to?". The regulatory board is overreacting, but it's nothing new, it's nothing new. It is suffered by wineries, by those who live and work in Rioja Alavesa, and now also by the Basque Government. Who dominates the Board of Regulators? It's simple: the big ones..., I was going to say the big entrepreneurs, but no, I'd be wrong, the big marketing companies, the big wineries. And, of course, it does not allow any movement, however small it may be, because even if they are few wineries, they are alavesos, they are small, what war they are going to give. Well, it is perfectly clear that the steps of the regulatory council always, always, have a second part. Of course – he said a moment ago – the regulatory board has a legitimate strategy. I cannot deny that, that is so, but it is antagonistic with the family model, with the model attached to the earth, with the cohesion of those peoples that we talk so much about, with sustainability, that word that I think I bring out here every day, but that we often don't even believe it. Well, the model that the regulatory board is putting forward today is "anti-sustainable" – I don't even know if it's right. The family cellars of Rioja Alavesa propose to differentiate, propose quality and propose, well, that what the regulatory council is doing so far, then, as it is no longer worth, no longer serves. That's why my 15-day-old interrogation was accurate or three weeks ago, that way. We called for the Basque Government to move. Well, it was an interpellation in which we initially asked him to move and we asked him to put in the means, which he has, to recover that mark. It was very simple, besides, I think in one line I was saying everything. We asked for technical, legal means to recover that Rioja Alavesa brand, which, by the way, I hope it is not too late, that when we go to recover the Rioja Alavesa brand it is still necessary to be united to Rioja. I hope it's not too late. But the attitude, at least, seemed worrying to me. And the interpellation we bring here today is because the reaction of Councilwoman Tapia was, as a matter of fact, surprising. I'm not going to say I wasn't happy; things, as they are. I was so glad, because I said, "Well, they recognize that the Rioja Alavesa brand is not in our hands; it has a private company." Well, up to that point, I was glad. I also noticed it a little uncomfortable, because it's true that when you get out of the comfort zone, I think it happens to us all, when you get out of the comfort zone you get uncomfortable. Indeed, it is a somewhat uncomfortable situation, because it is not easy for the government to deal with this regulatory council, which owns and runs not only the brand, but so many other things. I also saw an attitude a submissive point, I'd say, a submissive point, a little naive, because I was talking about good faith, didn't I? A feeling of "Well, we're not going to bother you very much; come, we're going to ask you to give us back the brand in good faith and we're going to be good guys." I believe that with the regulatory council and with the attitude it is taking, one cannot be a goodist, but not for nothing, but because they do not respond; it is that they respond to the counter. So you were appealing, Mrs Tapia, to the good faith of the regulatory council. It sounds a bit like a joke to me, because good faith has shown they don't, because they have to ask permission. And now I remember the T-shirts of the Alavés or I remember also in the games of Baskonia, how there are large posters in which Rioja Alavesa put or the players of the Alavés, which two years ago were branded Rioja Alavesa. It's because the regulatory board let us put Rioja Alavesa in those T-shirts, because we had to ask them for permission; because, if they had said no, it would have been a "No, nobody wears those T-shirts"; then, let's go a little further and be rigorous. He said you had to ask permission. That's right. You have to ask them for good faith. All we have to do is apologize to them. It's the only thing we need. So, that's why today's motion, because the big companies, the big brands, the countess, the kings, the list this Forbes gets the red carpet, the big wineries come and there nothing happens; but when a group of small wineries claim Rioja Alavesa as something of their own, as something identity, then the thing gets complicated and I don't know why we don't make the decisions and we don't bet, because the same other model is also possible. I am not saying that it is the only one, no, surely they will be compatible, but we advocate that the people of Rioja Alavesa remain alive. Yesterday afternoon I was in Rioja Alavesa and I came trembling here, I came trembling, because what I came to say there is: things are very complicated and the political parties are not seeing them, you are not seeing them, you are not betting or putting your money on the table, you are not playing the beans there; we are, and we do not know how long this will last in this bloodthirsty. And I say this because yesterday afternoon I lived it and it impressed me so much, they told us: "The region is liquidated", and I said: "But what are you telling me? What are you telling me? Rioja Alavesa, how will you be cleaning up this region, if it's our...?". Well, I'm not going to say a barbarity; it's our excellence and we're letting it fall down the ravine. I mean, today it's not just about getting the brand back, it's about putting Rioja Alavesa at the point she deserves. So I'm going to finish, because I see I'm running out of time and I didn't think I'd talk for fifteen minutes. I will put the future on the table: the Basque Government has to put legal measures, indeed, to recover that mark, it has to put the technical part because it belongs to it, but I would also ask it to put political means not only with the mark, that this is something urgent, because the Rioja Alavesa Quadrilla cannot act on something that is not even its competence, that it has no capacity. I would ask you to defend the interests of the Riojano-Alavesas, because they are Basques, they are Basques, as simple as that. Because it seems many times that we crossed Herrera and that behind them are there, forgotten. No, no, they're part of us, and you have to empower them in that feeling. And I would also say that we must respect as much as we can the decisions that are made in that region; first, because they are not personal decisions, they are business decisions, and as such, I believe that it is up to the Government to protect and facilitate this differentiation of the product, right? I'd ask them not to be late, so simple. I have said that Erriox of Abarah is not ours, but that it is Errisha of Ara, and I have said it, and it is the Basque Country. That's clear, isn't it? Erriox of the Arabs is more than wine or vineyards, much more than wine. Errioxa of the Arabs is history and culture, they are people, and this government has not yet reached the subject. Today's the time for the government to be initiated. I had a phrase – and I just told you, Mrs. Tapia – that, well, "Move, Mrs. Tapia" had pointed here, move, Mrs. Tapia. Well, move, the government wanted to ask, because the future of Rioja Alavesa, I think it's far from the future of La Rioja. And I'm going to end up with something I have here, which I found when I got up to my desk in the morning, and it's a pasquin full of bottles, of how wonderful Rioja Alavesa is. [[Has shown a release]] And on the cover, when I tried to find out and put on my glasses, he says "Vinos de Rioja". "We came from Rioja. Memorable harvest." Fixed. "The regulatory board predicts that the 2019 harvest will be remembered in history." I hope it will be remembered in history not only because the harvest is going to be excellent, that I have no doubt about that, but also because we finally own the Rioja Alavesa brand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u54	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u55	President, ladies and gentlemen. We share the concern of the initiative. We share the concern that the Rioja Alavesa brand, which was born as a brand to protect the wines of Rioja Alavesa, to promote them, to extend their trade around the world, is at the moment in a position of uncertainty, because there is an intention, an interest to be exceeded in what means this protection that in its day was given to this brand, as I say, referred exclusively to the promotion of wine. Different commercial interests are beginning to appear that go beyond, that invade other sectors of economic activity, of productive activity, and, obviously, this is a concern for the institutions and that is why we share this concern about the qualitative step that the Rioja Regulatory Council has taken and we also share not only this parliamentary concern but also the concern of the Basque Government, of the Foral de Álava Diputación, of the Rioja Alavesa Quadrilla, of the set of institutions that are trying to find a correct, adequate and proportionate solution to this problem. Indeed, for a few years now disagreements with the regulatory council have been important. We have many problems and many open fronts, we have them in relation to how the quality of the wines of the whole denomination is evaluated. We have it in relation to what is most important, whether a quality policy or a price policy or how both things are combined: where there is production there can be price, but where there is quality there must also be another type of price and other type of value for precisely that quality. In recent years there have been many initiatives that have generated confusion and uncertainty in the sector. I will remind you that we have talked about the vineyards of Álava, of the vineyards of Euskadi, of elements that have also generated tension within the regulatory council, and, therefore, I believe that we are facing a rather decadent time that should be brought back as a whole, and I believe that for that is more important the policy than the judicialization of the problem. In this thesis is the Basque Government, a thesis that we obviously support. We believe that problems with the regulatory council must be dealt with through policy, through dialogue, to seek understandings, among other things because, at least the socialists, we do not question membership of the regulatory council at all. It seems to us that it is essential, that it is essential for the economic promotion of this sector and of the whole region, and also for making a country, because it also has a fundamental impact on employment and the economy of Álava and the Basque Country. Therefore, we do not question that membership, but we do believe that there are internal factors, of internal relations, and also external factors that are aggravating the promotion, expansion of the economic and productive reality of this sector. We are in a period when all internal tensions accumulate the brexit It should also be said that Rioja Alavesa, the wine sector of Rioja Alavesa, is not a homogeneous sector. Not everyone thinks the same, not all wineries think the same. It is enough to say that there are several associations, associations that emphasize different aspects of the promotion of wine, which have also confronted ways of seeing and focusing this sector in recent times. Also, within Rioja Alavesa, production varies in quantity and quality depending on the areas. In other words, we are not facing a sector that is homogeneous, monolithic, in which they think equally or have the same interests. The same is not true of small wineries and large wineries. The same is not true of wineries with a certain quality and a certain projection in what is their ability to enter the market and the large groups that have also been installed and that come from the interior or that come also from other commercial alliances with other designations of origin or with other economic groups from other places. We have countless open fronts and we also have, as we are dealing with, a sector that is poignant, that is important, that generates a lot of activity, a lot of economy and a lot of social attention to that region and that brings it to Álava and to Euskadi. And that is why dealing with this matter is of great importance, and it is very reasonable that it has been brought to this Parliament. I believe that the most important part of this debate is that both the group that presented the initiative and those that we have tabled amendments agree on a compromise amendment, which I hope will be supported by the non-amendment groups. I believe that here there is a unity of opinion and a unity of action so that the institutions and the Government, more specifically, continue to work as it has done, in defence of this brand, which, as its name indicates, has a much greater condition than that of the wine sector and which, therefore, its use, its use, the added value it can have, corresponds to the whole of the territory. Firstly, it belongs to the region, secondly, to the territory, but also to the country. And, well, I believe that with this backtrack that we are going to give to this initiative and this compromise amendment we can say that this Parliament has a unity of action to try to defend the recovery of that Rioja Alavesa brand, that the best way to fix it, beyond the things that the regulatory council is doing, is to appeal to dialogue and understanding. And, well, I hope that that dialogue and understanding will give some satisfaction and it is not necessary to go to the end from the judicial perspective. But, in any case, at the moment that is obviously also open, and that is why this Parliament has also defined itself in this respect and has taken a stand. This is the socialist position, and I would like us to start to tone down a little bit in relation to the confrontations and confrontations between Rioja Alavesa and Rioja as a denomination. I would like us to enter into a more, more reasonable, more understanding field of collaboration. I bet for that, I believe that the regulatory council remains fundamental and decisive for the promotion of our wines and that perhaps we need to lower political tension, we need to lower ideological tension, we need to be aware that we cannot tackle this problem with a single voice or in a homogeneous way, because the interests and differentiations between us and us with the council are many. And, therefore, I see no more solution to address all these internal and external fronts than dialogue, collaboration, cooperation, harmony, and this is done, fundamentally, in the diplomatic relationship – let us say – which, in turn, has a very important basis, and is the very existence of wine. We all know that around wine have historically generated great consensus, great agreements, is a great ambassador of personal relations and social relations, and, well, to see if putting some bottles of wine on the table between the regulatory council and Rioja Alavesa we are able to fix this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u56	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Ms. Molina, your word is yours. MLINA PEURS: Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. The issue that we are now discussing has already been discussed quite a bit over the last few weeks, so I guess we're not going to hear anything new either. Of course, I warn you that I will not tell you anything revealing either, because you already know our position. We recently heard the question Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe made to the Sailburu Tapia and also the answer she gave, which, by the way, was quite enlightening, as she pointed out the work that the institutions had done to curb the appropriation that the Rioja Origin Regulatory Council has made of the Rioja Alavesa brand in Europe. We have also been able to hear at the General Councils in Álava the explanations given by the deputy general on this matter, and at the initiative of the same proposing group there was also a debate based on that House. We therefore know perfectly well the situation and the position of all groups. However, it is worth remembering what has been the mark's peril during these years. The Rioja Origin Regulatory Council registered twenty years ago the name of Rioja Alavesa for food use and wines in the state, that is, in category 33, and it is true that since then no one has done anything – not even the proposing group – but recently the council went beyond and tried to register the brand for other uses that have nothing to do with wine, such as clothing, footwear, coffee, cocoa or non-alcoholic beverages and even a wide catalog of merchandising And, in the face of this, the Basque administrations acted immediately and in a coordinated way to avoid it. And that's why the Álava Provincial Council won two resources to the state regulatory council, where it intended to register the brand for clothing and footwear products and entertainment services, i.e. class 25 and 41. And thanks to the work of the congress, the Register of Trademarks refused that registration and today its use does not belong to the regulatory council within the State. At its closing, the Council also decided to request the European Union Intellectual Property Office to register the name and brand of Rioja Alavesa for the same, i.e. for categories that have nothing to do with wine or resemble it. And, in the face of such a misconception, the Basque institutions, again, from the first moment on and in a coordinated way, but this time led by the Rioja Alavesa Quadrilla because it was so decided among all the institutions, submitted a request for opposition to the European trademark registry. Unfortunately, it is not always won, as in life, and the office failed against the allegations presented and leaving in the hands of the council the exclusive use of the Rioja Alavesa brand in Europe. For our group, it's incomprehensible. We consider it pointless to extend that trademark registration to other uses or categories in the field of Spanish patents – and much less European – for merchandising products. A region's branding should be protected only for the product of that designation, leaving the country's brand record in the country's administration. We understand that it involves an extra limitation of the competences of control, promotion and sale of wine in the council and a mercantilization of a brand that identifies an administrative region of the territory alaves. Gehiegizkoa da age ez da justifikatzen zertarako egin two, zer asmorekin eta zer lortu nahi two kontseiluak erregistrea Bereganatuz. Eta, heifer, zer jango from the hurricane, udalerrien zena erregistaza, huta era? As Councillor Tapia has already said, after the failed appeal, efforts are still being made to curb the strange movements of the regulatory council, which, in addition to demanding that the "good faith" register be ceded, as she said, as should be the case with any negotiations – nothing to do with the submission, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe – will be taken as necessary. A study will have to be carried out from the legal, historical, administrative perspective and with more arguments or what is appropriate, but they have no doubt that they will continue to work to recover the brand, so that it will be used under the supervision of the Basque institutions and companies. And they will do so as hitherto, discreetly, away from the headlines, in coordination and using the legal and legal advice that is necessary to ensure the interests of the Riojano-Alavesas and Riojano-Alavesas. And all this dealt with the amendment that we tabled with the Basque Socialists, which looked like the motion tabled by EH Bildu. And I say it looked like it because we were insisting on the same thing but with nuances, nuances that must be highlighted because they are the ones that make the difference to us. And in this case it was important to stress that the Basque Government continues to work, because it is doing so from the first minute. That "move" that Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe said has already been done and is still being done. In fact, thanks to that movement the regulatory council does not have the trademark registered within the state right now, although unfortunately it still maintains it in Europe. And our correction says, "The American law is asking everybody to go on working with Kodrila from Errioxa, and the National Fordun of Arai, and all the legal and technical resources that he can use to get rid of Abar Errix." So we hope we can go back because we don't understand the movement of the council and share the quick practice of the Basque organizations in order to get the mark on the inheritance of the Errix of the Arabs. And I simply demand protection from groups that have not been corrected. Thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mrs. Molina. Teams that haven't run any corrections. Basque Popular. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours. lópez de ocarariez lópez de muina After the inquiry made by Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, I was surprised at the beginning, right?, assimilating, matching the Rioja Alavesa brand with a taboo theme. I mean that we can talk about Rioja Alavesa as one of the three areas of the designation of qualified origin Rioja: Rioja Alavesa, Rioja Alta and Rioja Oriental. Something, for example, that we cannot do with the designation of origin Idiazabal, right?, which also affects several autonomous communities and the three territories of the Basque Country. We cannot talk about Idiazabal de Álava or Idiazabal de Bizkaia, Idiazabal de Gipuzkoa or Idiazabal de Navarra. I am surprised that in this, then, you have no interest; as an Alavesa, I would like to have the name of Alava more visible in the Idiazabal. Yes, I'd like to have it. What you call taboo, the Rioja Alavesa brand, is in an area spread in just over 300 square kilometers of southern Álava, with special characteristics of subsoils, right?, which are archlocalcáreos, which give a differentiated quality to their wines. It is composed of 18 municipalities with a wide range of tourist resources that contribute an economic value complementary to the winemaking activity itself, in addition to natural, cultural and historical values. In Rioja Alavesa there are registered 12,978 hectares of vines of ink and white grapes, with a yield of 7,196 kilos per hectare, I mean, reflected this in the yearbook 2018. The total number of wineries registered in the Rioja designation of origin in 2018 was 340, representing almost half of the total wineries of this denomination, which are 781. About 25,000 direct and indirect jobs, depending on the times, but, well, an average of 25,000 jobs. This is the Rioja Alavesa brand, in addition to all its producers and the whole environment. And if this seems taboo to you, then, yourselves. The Rioja Alavesa is present, it is future, the only agrarian activity where there is generational relief, an agile, active region, with the difficulties proper to any activity, including the climatic ones, and then, then, the ones proper to various circumstances that surround an economic activity like this, so, as the other day we spoke of the brexit Rioja wines are present in 130 countries, but in 2018 their sales have fallen by 7.3%, and this is a problem, a fat problem, a major problem. Moreover, the low consumption of Rioja Alavesa wine in Bizkaia and in Gipuzkoa, in its capitals, in Bilbao and San Sebastián is a big and important problem. And this is taboo. This is being covered, this is being covered by the Government, which is looking elsewhere, which we have insisted on in this House many times to promote the environment of Rioja Alavesa wines, and it does not. He doesn't. It is taboo to put in Bizkaia wine from Rioja Alavesa. Taboo. Only 12% of the wine consumed in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa is from Rioja Alavesa. I am also concerned that neither Bildu nor the Government nor Mrs Tapia nor the groups supporting the Government are concerned about the problems that wine workers are experiencing in the negotiation of the collective agreement. You bring here many problems of multitudes of companies, of agreements, of negotiations of sectoral agreements, and this one seems not to worry you, do you not?, the collective sectoral agreement of Álava for the industry of the trade of wine. The previous agreement ended on 31 December 2018. Negotiations for the next convention are still blocked, and I am surprised that they have not taken any initiative. It gives me the impression that Bildu with this initiative comes to compete with the PNV in the old and caspian laudation of the grudge with the Regulator Council of the Denomination of Origin Rioja. A pundit PNV, to which tomorrow's headline cares, nothing more. He doesn't care any more. Council representing the wine sector, ABRA, Association of Small Wineries, UAGA, producers, Araex, grouping of exporting wineries, the Rioja Group, the Basque Government itself, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Communities of Rioja and Navarra, and no representative has opposed. It is sought that the council comply with the law and register the Rioja Alavesa brand in order to be able to market the product. Because the sector representatives know something more than all of us, who talk a lot about hearing. The producers present on the regulatory board are aware that they have among their functions in the board the promotion of the wine protected by the Rioja designation of origin in the markets, the realization of dissemination actions, the defense of the protected product, as well as the protection of the name protected by the Rioja Designation of Origin and the registration of trademarks, distinctive signs, domain names on the internet and other industrial property rights that were necessary to complete the protection provided in this area. The regulatory board has registered the Rioja brand and that of the sub-areas – Rioja Alavesa, Rioja Oriental and Rioja Alta – in more than 40 countries, because this is required by Law 6/2015. And you know it, the government knows it, Bildu knows it, the PNV knows it, the Socialist Group knows it. As is required of this denomination, other denominations are required. It referred to the designation of origin Idiazabal. All right, there are no sub-zones, there is no differentiation of anything; but yes, they carry txapela. Yeah, yeah, they're from home, okay. Nothing there, all quiet. They know perfectly well that the regulatory board does its work protected by law, and that has already been told by the courts. So, why do they keep tangled up? If there is any difference in non-compliance, then there are the courts. It has disappeared when it has been so, and on other occasions, therefore, it will not be right. That's right. There is an interest in insulting the Rioja Alavesa brand and mistreating its wines because it annoys – I believe – certain people that this wonderful potential is in Álava. What happened, did something happen when they named the capital of the wine in Bilbao? No, everybody shut up, it was Bilbao. Everybody shut up. Does Bilbao deserve to be the capital of wine? Do you have merit? What do you drink wine from Rioja, Rioja, Rioja? Is that the merit? Ah! I didn't know. The representative of the Government of Spain of the Ministry of Agriculture attends the plenary sessions of the regulatory council, and has put no objection, no objection. Nor does the Government of La Rioja and the Government of Navarra (socialists) have or have expressed any objection. The representative of the Basque Government, listen, did not attend the plenary sessions on 21 and 28 October. Why would it be? It's been two years since these brands were registered, and it's taken time to see the alleged problem. Nobody's said anything in these two years. And, as I told you, the representative of the Basque Government did not either. The reality is that the law has been complied with, or it seems that the law is being complied with, and, as I said to them, in what is not done goes to the courts, it is the way. They know that the powers of the regulatory board are the promotion and defence of the protected product, as well as to ensure full protection of the name protected by the designation of origin, by registering for this purpose the corresponding trademarks, domain names, internet names and other industrial property rights which may complement the protection provided for in the legislation in this field and by exercising the judicial or extrajudicial functions within their power to defend the name protected by the designation of origin, from their illegitimate use which constitute acts of unfair competition or other misuse. That is the law and, as I say to you, if in addition to registering the mark of wine, you say that there are other parameters, then there is justice. Of course, we are going to abstain from the compromise amendment because we believe that this is what we should do in this initiative. And I would emphasize to him: please, let's value what we have, that we have a lot of surroundings, very close, that he says he loves us very much, but that he takes away everything he can.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u57	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u58	Good noon again. Now we're discussing a motion introduced by the EH Collectors to recover the Ryriex of the Arababa, and that's why we agree with that request and that's why we didn't make any corrections. We see that almost all the groups agree, but whether there is an agreement or no, we think we're in a superficial discussion with the middle. For there must be a real dispute about the mark we want for, a new brand, or the mark of the Erriox of Aruba. Will a similar wine be added to the production of wine, the same which is made in the Rhyx, to sell that wine in the same markets? If that's what it really is, it's not worth it. The question, the real debate that we should be facing today, and which I have seen so far in the speeches, is why we want a differentiated mark. And it is not my intention to break unanimity because, as I have already said, our group is going to vote in favour of this compromise, which we share. Although I also have to say that we liked the original EH Bildu better. But if we remain in the superficial debate, we will certainly not be moving towards the real debate. Obviously, our group would like the same unanimity that we have in the need for the Quadrilla de Laguardia and Rioja Alavesa to recover a mark that should never have been lost and to count on the cooperation of the Basque institutions, as I say, we would like that same unanimity to occur also to define what we want this differentiated mark for. If what we are looking for is to compete with a new brand with the Rioja Alavesa brand, which is known all over the world, or almost all over the world, except in Bilbao, if we want to do it to produce the same wines in the same markets, then this initiative is doomed to failure. Now, if we are looking for a new brand, if we are looking to recover the Rioja Alavesa brand to have a brand that emphasizes the quality of the wines in front of their quantity, the sustainability of a wine growing, to be possible ecological, to defend small and rooted wineries in the region, a production with decent working conditions and to market here, in short circuits, even until Bilbao, then our group will support that proposal. Otherwise, we're making a billboard castle. And it is not our intention, in any way, to break the debate, but to make it clear that the debate exclusively on the ownership of the brand remains short. What we need to know is what we want that brand for, and that is the debate that we would like to have, sooner or later, both in this Parliament and in the General Councils and throughout the territory of Rioja Alavesa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u59	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing on the turn of the answers, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u60	Thank you again, Mrs. Tejeria. I have to say that I am happy, on the one hand, to share the concern, because, in fact, that is part of the solution. And, as politicians and politicians, what is ours, in any case, is to seek solutions and share concerns. I understand Mr Socialist, Mr Prieto; I answer him that way, don't I? It is not up to us to judge what they want to do in business, it is up to us to facilitate. And I think that's where we all agree in this House, isn't it? That is why today's initiative, an initiative which, of course, has, in fact, also been able to remain on the outside, but because it has a double bottom, we could say, right? On the one hand, we need to know that in Rioja Alavesa there are two models, and the Rioja Alavesa brand has to be ours, because we can make it easier to choose the type of model. There are two models, absolutely different, but everything is run by the regulatory board. So we will hardly be able to differentiate, if it is not recognized that there is an industrial model that seeks benefits, that seeks quantity and that quality, then, well, we can negotiate it. There is another, which is of small wineries anchored in the territory that for the moment the peoples of Rioja Alavesa and that are the most undervalued and those that have the most difficulty to compete in this tumult of great profits and great industries, isn't it? That is why what we came to ask the Government today is, on the one hand, to recover the name, because it must be because it cannot be otherwise and because we owe it to the region and to the people living there, but on the other hand, well, to develop, push and facilitate that other model, based on quality, which is now being questioned. The Lady of the People's Party spoke of generational relief. Well, if you want, I'll make you a bet: we'll leave you and me tomorrow to Rioja Alavesa, we'll try to buy some vineyards and we'll try to put in a small cellar, see if we can get it. It is impossible to look for a generational relief, because it is impossible to access the land, because it is very expensive to enter that market, and because you already start to elaborate and compete with these big companies is almost impossible. Of course we have to look for generational relief, but today it's not happening, today it's not happening. And the Foral Diputation of Álava, who does have skills in that, knows it firsthand. Of course the Basque Government so far, well, the last two years have been absent; that, I believe, no one has been able to deny, because I have heard it again today in this atrium, I also heard it on the day of the inquiry. For wine, the Rioja Alavesa brand remains the regulatory board and in Europe today the regulatory board is the owner of the Rioja Alavesa brand. The Basque Government knows about this inferiority of forces in the regulatory council, because the inferiority of forces is measured in the number of votes. There are 200 feasible votes on the governing board. Do you know how many Araba have? Seventeen. We know of the inferiority of forces, David versus Goliath, there can not be done. Moreover, the registration of the Rioja Alavesa brand did not even take place in full, it did not even vote. It is true that little had to be done, because with 17 votes against 200 little had to be done, but it was not even taken. So, well, inferiority looks there. The attitude of the regulatory council is clear, and I believe that the proactive attitude in defense of Rioja Alavesa of the government, I am already giving it for granted, because, in fact, the motion that we are going to present today and that is approved today, I see it positive. Indeed, I would have liked much more to be more ambitious, but I understood that it went beyond partyism and that today we do need a general agreement to move forward and to defend a Basque region, Rioja Alavesa, above any other party interest. So I am going to finish and I am going to finish with a sentence that I have to say to Mr Prieto; I cannot finish in any other way, moreover: wine unites us, whether we like it or not, wine unites us, even if the People's Party is abstaining today. I want to thank everyone for their attitude in this court today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u61	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Mr Price right there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u62	President, from the seat, because it is simply a point of order. The Rioja Alavesa brand exists and has existed for many years and operates within the regulatory board and has so far been protected as a brand in relation to the promotion of wine; and, moreover, when such promotion has been attempted to be to other sectors or to other activities of the economy, it has not been allowed. What we want is to recover the step taken by the regulatory council in relation to the Rioja Alavesa brand, which wanted to register it in order to be able to place it before another type of activities that are no longer related to wine, but are related to footwear, to textiles, to the economic activity they would like, knowing that this is a brand that also represents a region and that is part of a country, and that therefore has an identity that is superior to that which refers to the promotion of wine. This is the conflict we're in. It's not about inventing a new brand, it already exists, it's already registered for many years. With it have been promoted the wines of Rioja Alavesa within the Denomination of Origin Rioja, and we want it to continue to be so, but we do not want this to happen to a higher stage, with a commercial and economic aggressiveness on the part of the regulatory council that is not according to any of the purposes for which the wine sector exists or for which there is the regulatory council itself. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u63	Thank you, Mr Price. Ms. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs López de Ocariz, if we agree... Sorry, Lopez de Arroyabe. We agree with the reflection on this subject, but do not deny me the steps that the Basque Government has taken to curb this situation, and above all I insist that it continues to give them, right?, because above there is still time to appeal that remedy, worth the redundancy. And I would like to remove from the debate the questions here on sales, on the denomination, on the situation of wineries, which it is clear that we must address and it would even be interesting, as Mr Becerra said, to reflect, right?, but today's debate is about the appropriation that the Rioja Origin Regulatory Council has made on the Rioja Alavesa brand; we are not going to deviate, are we? Mrs López de Ocariz – now yes – you put the cry in the sky when ABRA decided to remove the name of Rioja Alavesa from its association. Why don't they put it on when the council takes the name of Rioja Alavesa for uses that have nothing to do with wine? He also talks about the representative coming or not coming. Well, that too will be discussed, because you have presented another initiative. But it doesn't matter, it's that the representative doesn't have a vote; therefore, they can say whatever they want, because they can't vote. He has also said that the objective of the regulatory board is to defend the protected product. Totally agree, but is it your job to protect a cup where you put Rioja Alavesa or a suit printed with Rioja Alavesa? No, right? Well, then. And then, of course, put the wine into value; totally okay, but without letting us step on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u66	Ladies and gentlemen. Well, me, what I'm going to tell you is that we believe from the People's Group that the Rioja Alavesa brand belongs to the winegrowers of Rioja Alavesa, right? From the People's Group we firmly believe that together we are more, that the brand identifies us in the world. The Rioja Alavesa brand is part of the designation of origin, and any attempt to remove it would involve the departure of our wineries from the Rioja Denomination of Origin. Which is what you want, which you have said many times, by active and passive. And they're tangled and tangled. And they've been louding for years and years. We also demand greater promotion of Rioja Alavesa wines at international, national and local levels from the regulatory council and the Basque Government – of course it is between its functions and we will demand it. It cannot be that in Bilbao and San Sebastián consumption of Rioja Alavesa is only 12%. From the People's Party we've always been betting on Rioja Alavesa. Twenty years ago we bet on watering. There it is. Then we bet and improved and fixed the watering pad that they left at Lanciego. There's the success. Fifteen years ago we bet on the Wine Route. We have created it since the parliamentary term, in Mr Rabanera's government. Today it is the biggest tourist destination of Álava. In the People's Party we know how to support the Rioja Alavesa and we do it gladly and eagerly, because it is a great treasure. And for this we set in motion ideas such as the Fair of the White Wines of Vitoria, in its second edition, such as Ardoaraba, which was also the initiative of the PP government in the Diputación de Álava. Are you, in addition to entanglement, willing to reinforce the Denomination of Origin Rioja and Rioja Alavesa? Are you ready? Can you tell me Bildu an initiative that has developed in favor of the Rioja Alavesa brand, of the Denomination of Qualified Origin of Rioja, one, one? Can the Basque Government tell me why it has been running since 2014 without the contribution it has to make from the budget to the regulatory council? Can you tell me? Can you explain? Do you have an explanation? They don't have a vote. Nor does the Community of Navarre have a vote, nor does it have the Community of La Rioja, but they can negotiate, they know how to be, they know how to speak, they know how to dialogue, they know how to respect. That's the point. In addition to drawing attention, to exercise dyscolo, not to appear in plenary, what do you contribute to the regulatory council, counselor, what do you contribute? And I propose a challenge to you: look, we are going to recover for Vitoria the capitality of wine. lehendakariak Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. After discussion, we'll vote for EH, the Euskal Socialists and the Eucalists, the Middle Amendments signed by the Eucalists. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the abstainments are 9. So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together about the map of Eucharistic language. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Flattery, represented and defended by Mrs. Potemus, has the word. wide here Mr. President, counselors, fellow congressmen, good morning to all. Now we will treat another proposition as well as map of language morality. First of all, I must tell you that the year of 1863 is far off when Louis Lucien Bonaparte published the map of seven Basque provinces, in which he divided the eucalyptus into eight Euscans, 25 subscans, and fifty varieties. This map had been maintained to 1998 until Professor Koldo Zuazzo Euscal University Diallactology and Socilinguistics upgraded it. That same year the second sozygic map was published. Now we have the fifth edition. In fact, 19th. the 20th century and the 20th century. for the whole century, the sonic reality of Arba, of Gipu, and of Biscaia, was confined to the use of two official languages. The presence of other languages was rather small. This state of things has obviously changed in the last three decades, and at the present day, more than a hundred languages are heard in our society. All these languages bring forth a cultured wealth, which has been formed by time, and which sometimes has not been properly rated and measured. It seems obvious, but we don't know how important it is. Although the state of languages spoken by the emigrations of Eukadin, is different, it must be admitted that all these languages are languages of euscal society. They are therefore speakers with their rights, which must necessarily be placed within the limits of human rights. The population of foreign origin has gradually increased, and at the present day more than 10% of population are foreigners. In the case of the guitar, there are people registered who came from 175 countries. That's how the Multiplic Language Maps, request from the aldundias, monographic examinations made by Sotionlinguistica Kluster. Portifer: this investigation of Kluster will publicly present itself tomorrow. The purpose of the report is to update information on the changes you've had during the past few years, to identify the needs that are most urgent in a more and more mestified country. Document insists that it is important to know each of these languages socially, and that would at the same time be used as an incentive to learn foreign people to resist when their homes are fixed here. The purpose of the test is to examine the language in the gym, in order to design the proper policy of management. And from this point of view it must be regarded as a starting-point that all countries have not the same presence. After describing the map of population and its geographical distribution, he makes some proposals to protect the language used by monographic study. The authors of the report say that the confession of all languages is very necessary. The document says this must be explained to the society of the Gipulia by various activities. Many foreigners learn Spanish almost by inertia, or by error, and see no need to learn it. As a group of people who care for investigation, the language of the original stranger, and his culture, makes him proud to be social, and likewise urges him to assume the importance of the Basque. The knowledge of this diversity of language may, in their opinion, aid a more balanced relationship between the hegemony and the lesser languages. The trial is complex, and therefore the first step may be to allow this question. This context helps us to understand the importance of language based on scientific science and recommendations of experts. This scientific knowledge is, therefore, a very useful instrument to know not only the state of euphora, but also the sociolygious reality of Escla. In this valley, it is an exemplary experience in Gipuzia to apply the autonomy to the whole member. The knowledge of the manifold and manifold reality of languages is also a primary instrument for taking public policies. For it is the state of many people who now live in Eukadin in language. To plan politics and solve these situations properly, we have to know the reality better. And all this requires an update of our language, in order to adapt to this new reality we live in, though sometimes we don't want to see it. Besides, it is necessary to design a new policy of language in order to improve the relations of the emigrants with the Basques, in order that learning may not be an insurmountable obstacle. To leave these obstacles which Krone a state of inequality, we must work from all the fronts to develop the appropriate and updated public language policy. Yesterday we learned that euscal society wagers for the integration of multiplicity. That's how the view confessed, the Euskals of Immigration. In his report, more than 60% of the impacts pointed out that multiplicity is considered positive and abscessive. Together at Podemus, we thought it's worth working for such an agreement, for everyone's responsibility. We have brought this proposal here to improve and adapt the language of modern eascal society to politics. Let's not forget that language is the defining element of personal personality. At the same time, respecting the rights of the language of the speakers, even in any language, is also a defence of human rights. And that's why our team proposes to ask the Basque Bill of Sale and the Language Department to do a study that will make up a map of the language of the Renaissance. And I must be grateful to all the groups because they told me that they didn't make any correction (Murgaga, Mrs. Agueza, Mrs. Uberai), and above all thank Mrs Garrido, who put the correction aside, but as there was a misunderstanding, she'll turn back and vote for it, because she didn't quite understand the original message or the circumstances. And after all this, thank Mrs Garrido that she will vote for him, and that therefore, with all consent, this other proposition shall be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. The chief physician, good morning again. Well, Mrs. Wide, it's true, especially when you hear your interference, we'll accept your original proposal. We think it would be all right to know the amount of ligaistic difference in our Autonomy Er member. As you have mentioned, it seems that throughout the Gipuz, the forum-dundia is doing a study or study, and therefore we shall know the state of languages, the state of all languages. It is true, as we all know, that the sociolinguistic maps are made here, because Eustate collects data, and when these maps are made we know more particularly, or the end is to know what the use of the euphora is. It is true that when we speak of this subject, and make the socioggistic map, we have at last a photograph of each country, we have always mentioned the respect of sociogenustic reality, and the respect of that precise linistic reality of each country, and of which we have always spoken when we speak of it. But it is true that the precise purpose of the original proposition you mention is to make a map of the whole language of Euskal Autonomy in Errenia, and to know which is the state of all languages. And as you have mentioned in your interference, the situation has changed completely, and in the past ten years many immigrants have come, and apart from official languages (Euskara and Spanish), other languages are spoken in our Autonomia Er memberian, and that's a fact. Well, I would like to point out that in the end we are going to vote in favour of the initiative put forward by Mrs Zabala and the Elkarrekin Podemos Group. We see opportune to have a map that can explain to us, a map on linguistic diversity in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which would be different from a socio-linguistic map, which rather aims to know the situation of the two official languages. Indeed, we also believe that the situation in the Basque Country is very changing and has nothing to do with the situation of a few years ago. Many languages are spoken, apart from official languages, even if it is a minority language, but, well, it is appropriate to have an X-ray of that situation, and we will therefore vote in favour. We also believe that, as has been said here by the proposer, we already have an experience that is being done in the Gipuzkoa Diputation, promoted by this institution. And in that sense, well, we believe it is positive to have that linguistic X-ray of all the languages spoken in our Autonomous Community, not only of the Basque and the Castilian, but of the rest of the languages. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u69	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, passing to groups that have no correction. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u70	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Wide, it's a proud thing to have convinced Miss Laura Garrido after your interference. That, too, has merit. Well, if we leave the jokes aside, we really think it's a very appropriate proposition. For us, it is very important for us to reflect on the cultural, political, social, and, as well as about the linguistical variety, to make a map, and to follow our policies, if this question is required to change, to adapt, and to update. All the sparrows, right? After all, there is also an instrument of cohesion in language, and in order to cohesion, to improve our society, and to improve our societies, these tools and studies are always very useful. 'Esquekadi is a great variety, as I said. Our sociological map has also changed quite a lot during the last decades. Euskadi isn't even less rincibata than that, is it, uh, a society like that 30-50 years ago? Society changes, the world changes, and even in this globalization our society lives in a different reality. A very manifold reality, in every respect, isn't it? And for that, our politics must also be changed. Two or three days ago we had some parliamentary passengers from Venezuela to explain their situation, and I said that from the Euskaca it must be a holiday-place, a place that always opens its doors. And for this purpose it is also essential that Eukawa, a people with a strong partnership, is to be a place, a place, a place, to see all the people who come from without, that Eukadin is a place to develop the future. And for this we must expand a little, to these cultures, to their traditions, and even to offer our culture, to our personality, not to encounter them, but to obtain their co-operation. Therefore, in view of the fact that in Basquedi we live and live with very diverse people, people who were born here but who even though they were born here have different origins, it is important that we try to make Basquedi a place, as I said, where we can live in a plural way, in a diverse way, respecting culture, respecting languages, even showing that in Basquedi we also have a language and that we can live with those languages, those cultures, calmly. It is about enriching each other, living together and, in some way, learning also from the circumstances and everything that surrounds us in our day to day. Therefore, within this pluricultural, multilingual coexistence, we understand that it is very positive that such studies should be carried out. And the model of the study that has been made in Gipuzkoa, I think it serves a great deal; it serves to know what situation we currently have in our Autonomous Community, in Euskadi, but it serves, above all, to reorient our policies, to make an analysis of the current situation of these policies and to have the possibility to see from a future perspective what changes, what changes, what adaptations we must make so that Euskadi does not lose that qualification as a meeting place, where it lives in all aspects. A place, as I said, that receives people who come with open arms and who are even able to show the culture we have, the language, the identity we have, to welcome them and to make their own culture, but also that they make their own culture. Therefore, on this issue we have a good opportunity, a door that opens up to seek more wealth. More cultural wealth, more economic wealth, because this also opens the door to us being much more competitive, to know other worlds, other cultures and also other economic realities in which to look for niches of market; educational, because also, through this study, we can improve our educational system, adapt it, improve it, as I said, generate synergies that generate a wealth and allow us to enrich culturally, educationally, the whole society. In short, we can also improve our values and improve our coexistence. We highly value cultural mixedness, linguistic mixedness. And we also give great courage to the survival of all languages, to continue to keep those languages alive, that are not lost, because in some places, unfortunately and looking at us more inside, our Basques have been lost Therefore, without any encouragement either to impose our language, our culture, but quite the contrary, in the spirit of trying to offer it to serve as a tool of cohesion, we also want the other cultures, the other languages, to serve to cohesion us and to generate these synergies. Therefore, we, of course, are going to vote in favour, because we understand that the model that We can put on the table today, taking as a reference that study that has been done in Gipuzkoa, is perfectly extendable to our Community and will certainly serve as a tool for all the Members present here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u71	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u72	Good morning. Well, today's proposal for discussion, Mrs. Wide, the EH Collect decided to make this proposal. But we didn't do it because we didn't present anything that came through our mind to see us. We didn't do it, we still had the Gipulia report, the study, because we knew it wasn't finished, and we thought: "Let's wait till the Gipus come to their conclusion." And, as Mrs. Wide has said, the report will be announced to-morrow. We think it's a very necessary exam. Of course, after that, if the maps, photographs, and effects are applied in the daily language policy. I'm saying this because, well, we have a lot of tendency to do the reports, to study them, but then the reports and exams are often in the drawer. And reports and exams are useful for real language policy later. We have two official EAE languages, okay? And a language, natural. But our society is no longer eloquent. We often talk about eloquence, but our society is eloquent. We often talk, and so do we: We're trying to get an Eussanized Society. Society is already popular. What we have not been able to accomplish is to be the axis. Because, exceptions to exceptions, it is a young man who places himself in centrality. The Euscara has not succeeded in being a toast to all these languages, to be the rendezvous and axon of this eloquence. Spanish is reference, exception. And besides, several communities that have come to us here, many societies of our society, live in this way: their references are youthful references, and they do not know our language, though afterwards in all reports, as the key that appears in all our investigations, as determined, to integrate us into society. It's funny. And what's worse: Besides, each community has its refreciatives, has its media, and each of them, with reference and communication, creates its collective image. And thus it is very difficult to build a life together. So that what is in us is more than living together and living side by side. That's ours, isn't it? It's not life, it's life together, it's life with one another. I'm afraid that's what we have. That's it. So gradually, examinations of this kind are very well adapted to change our mental scheme, to change the clabes for our language policy, to make the language policy adapted to new times, to transform it into a referrence, to transform it into a rendezvous. It's for the eucalypine of all of them, isn't it? A great deal of language, and, as it is made in other countries, to resist, to pegament. And in this sense this report may be very useful, and, by the way, I will take advantage of this discussion to make the propaganda of other policies, because it seems to me very useful to me in this way, for example, to get 25 experts from the Board of Education, you, Miss Wide, as you have said very well from science, based on objective data, based on reviews, and this is not possible. And there are 25 instances, which ought to be recorded, a tremendous work, that may be very useful in making language policy, based on science, not political opinions, not science, objective data. And, by the way, it would be also a quantum step, I'm going to make EIB's Propaganda People in the Basque Country for Collectal, and, well, I think it would be important to accept in that direction the law of what's going to happen for the Basque society, too, isn't it? Oh, in those clabes. I like the rights of language, Mrs. Garrido, the rights of language belong to all persons, all of them. And that's where we're all the same. But today also your subconscious has betrayed you. I don't know what you guys thought. When you already see something of the euphorum, the red alarm is already kindled: "Cla, clacked, clacked, clacked. Careful, careful, careful." And they have betrayed you now, and you did not know what the proposition was saying, but the Yea esta. And I want to take advantage of it today, and, well, that's why I won't thank you, I won't thank you. All right, you'll vote for it tonight, but your corrections, you see where he went, and what sort of position do you have against the decree, and what is it not? So I just want to ask you a little reflection, so I'd like to ask you a little thought about the discussion today. We may have different criteria, but we all suppose that we want to protect, defend, and respect the people's rights. It's supposed to happen because we see what's going on in practice, don't we? But the Rights of Language are also Rights; and then it seems to me the least to defend the Rights of all the People at the same time, is the least; And here, well, it would be very well for Popular parties to reflect on their new times, to remove them from Pleistocene, and bring them to XX. To settle in, to see, isn't it? Different communities, different communities, different cultures, life, respect. And we Basque deserve respect too, okay? We live in our village, the euca is an official language, it's natural, it's everything, it's everything. Then we reflect, for we often talk of action. What exposure? Who does? Who does? We Basques are always begging, raising their fingers and begging for mercy. And I'm too tired to beg. I wish to proclaim my rights, and to respect my country, as other languages, cults, and communities do. And that's the frame. language rights, language rights. That's the frame, that's all. So little thanks to Popular Party, very little, and, yes, I'd like to ask him for reflection and respect.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. I shall speak very briefly, I think it has already been said on this subject, and it is quite agreed. We didn't have a full-scale correction either. Of course! This equipment is set up by the maladinous Foru of the Gipu, the head of the equality of languages, by the hands of the vastly Mountains we had before us, and also by the direction of Human Rights. We also agree that this is not only a matter of language, but also a question of human rights, and therefore we agree with this proposition which has come to us today. We believe that what he's doing in the gym is important to take to Abara and Biscare and see what this situation is like. This work was ordered, as has been said, to the Cluster of Sotolinguis, and the end was clear: in what state we are living in, linguistically, to know how much language we have in our country, and to present ourselves to it in action and politics. I think when Mrs. Ubera tells her to do diagnostics for doing... I think that when such enterprises are decided to act, it is really a necessity, that it is a method of making a more efficient policy to resist it, and that this is the end from the very beginning. This study, as has been said, will appear tomorrow, but we already know that, if I am not mistaken, 163 languages live in Gipulia. And this reality that we live in the gym is the indicator of changes in the world, isn't it? We have people here who come to live better in order to improve their lives, and the object is to possess this diversity which they bring about. And I think that's one thing that's also in Basques, it's not just a case in Gipuke, and it's positive to do that. Besides, we believe that the duty of the administration is to give choice to these emigrants, even when it concerns the linguistics. The wide thing, as the lady said, is often engaged in inertia, even with those from without, and I think that we must realize that what we have to do is a great deal, that there are many of the external profiles that come from without, and that these are different profiles, and that we must show them that we have two official languages in this country, and that they have the right to learn these two official languages. And I think that at last we must appeal to it. As we respect and confess to them, and the confession of the culture they bring from their own people, and the confession of the language, may we also ask to ask for the culture and language of our lives here, that they should respect and possess them, and not? And I believe that this is always positive, that eloquence is positive, and that we have need of it, even to encourage the cradle, and to guarantee the survival of it. I believe that there is a clabe in the politics of language from that reality which we have to live in this language, and to encourage even the euphora. When we say that we must exhibit it as an opportunity, I think we ought to be able to express our language, to exhibit it as an opportunity, for it opens the doors to work, because the integration is managed in a better manner; and I think that we have to open it, and that we must give it to them. And with all this, it's not what we're looking for informization, I think we all have that. What we seek by this is to confess to respect and variety. I think, then, that this proposition is right, and that we are on the side of it, because we ourselves are engaged in the Forum Aldudian of Gipuia, and it is important for me to carry it forward in Biscaia and Araban. When these are once in our hands, we shall see what politics are taken and what measures are to be taken. And, well, I'd like to congratulate Mrs. Wide, because it's not often so easy to accept a proposition with one mouth, and this time it'll be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. Passing it to the answers turn, Mrs. Wide must not speak. Mrs Garrido from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u76	Thank you. To answer Mrs. Ubera. Well, on the one hand, I think I've made that clear, haven't I? The explanation given by the lady, Intervention, has been clearly stated by us, and therefore our vote will be accepted. You've already mentioned that the euphora is the inheritance of all of us. Yes, he is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u77	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Doneza mustn't talk. Mrs. Ubera, right? From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u78	Mrs Garrido, do you really think there's an engagement? Do you really think about it? There's nothing else to see in this house. Well, it's a compliment to what you want to put in the language. And the love and respect of the eucalyptus are seen in the most beautiful of everyday days, and you show a little respect and little affection to the eucalyptus with your daily enterprises. The only thing now is to see, when the decree of local institutions has been cleared, how you immediately raised and betrayed and introduced the means, and we shall have another just. It's only to be seen in Osa-like when we speak of language criteria, or in education or so many fields. Then please. I don't think I've used the word 'Starine', but if I used it, it would have been a lapsus, because I don't like it, because at last I think I'm in a drawer or a box, something that's dead, something hidden. And no, I want to see life, light, and highly dynamical eucalyptic. I want to live with it, and I really want you to take a seriously into account on the beautiful days of life. For, unfortunately, from this colonial mentality, this mentality and ideology of supremacetors, we are crushed by the Basques, our language is not yet official, it is not official. But I will not go to Navarre, nor to the North: There is nothing in this house but to see, as it were, the great organization of the EAE, in a democracy, what is the treatment of our language in respect of all, as a whole, as an institution. You'll tell me about Spanish and eus, both official languages... not only the eucaia, the natural language, in what state it is in. So I don't know what to say. Maybe it's just the fashion now that polyamor Polyamor-
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. After discussion, we'll vote together with the original text of the proposition as well as that of the Podemos. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters 73; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u80	The original text of Podemos has therefore been unanimously accepted. I interrupt the whole meeting till about four-fifteen. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and twelve. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-five.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u81	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. The seventh point on the theme list: "In other words, as the Socialists made parlamentary groups of people, to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the United States of Guernica. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Pastor representing the Socialist Basque Group. It's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u82	Good afternoon. Gracias, president. Good. On this day the Socialist Group proposes not to overlook the important dates – and this is so – the historical ones, the ones that have brought us to where we are, the ones that have allowed us to make the Social Euskadi and the plural Euskadi. And it seems to us especially important that it be done at this turbulent moment, at this moment in which the essential pillars on which this society has been built are being questioned, a way of living together among different people, a formula that we must continue to keep alive and a model to be updated, to bring it up to date. These are the three basic issues that are included in this proposal, three ideas that in those terms have been endorsed by a vast majority of this House to this day. We do not bring a socialist idea of what our own self-government should be like. We have a project that we are beginning to build basically socialists and nationalists, which has been able to add communists and centrists from the beginning and which in its 40 years of journey has been adding more wills. Because everyone, we all have our idea of how to project it into the future. In two days' time, the committee of experts will forward to us an articulated text on the basis of which two forces (Vasco Nationalist Party and Euskal Herria Bildu) basically agreed, but this will be nothing more than technical work, as they have been in charge of remembering, by the way. Political responsibility will come later, whether or not each group accepts this text as the basis for registering a bill. And here I do want to recall the socialist position, which is, so that there is no doubt, that we do not assume as a starting point any assumption that the legality or any interpretation that derives from the establishment of categories of citizens will fail. On the other hand, we will work to deepen the many coincidences, which, as we have been repeatedly insisting on the presentation of self-government, are much more than the aspects that separate us. But our starting point must be the guarantee of the social rights that we have won, the guarantee of plurality, the guarantee of legality, which is what makes everything else viable. We think that the three essential pillars, which have brought us to this day and that the Statute is 40 years old, which is what we wanted to celebrate today, what we want to share today. And we have seen the amendments tabled by other groups on our initiative. We see a People's Party that wants to stay where we are, without addressing the new social realities that need to update the pact, as has been done in the rest of the communities, except ours, because I want to remind you that it is the only status of autonomy that has not had any reform process since its adoption. We see a Euskal Herria Bildu who, as he insists where he can, flees where he has always fled, from the historical responsibility of the abertzale left for not having been in all the years in which this Euskadi was built. And we see a PNV and an Elkarrekin We can see that in other institutions on this same matter they have agreed other things. Here they have changed their alliance and some have also changed their position. Socialists say here the same as in the City Hall of Bilbao, in Barakaldo or in Vitoria, the same as in the general meetings. And we do so with the firm will in all the institutions not to discuss the final model, which will take time, but the agreements already worked out earlier. That's what we want to talk about. The Statute of Gernika has been and is the best pact that the Basques have been able to make so far to progress together. The best pact between us and the best pact we have ever made with the rest of Spain. It is the best instrument we have been able to find to achieve the greatest transformation that Euskadi has ever achieved. And that pact has managed to survive every attempt to be laminated and ETA's permanent attempt to put an end to it, because it's not a long shot that it was right after the adoption of the Gernika Statute when ETA's terrorist action increased the most. When ETA has killed more, has persecuted more, has threatened more is when we advanced more in self-government, when we got Osakidetza or the Basque public school or the normalization of the euskera or the right to an income guarantee income. We have succeeded in overcoming all attempts to impose and we have succeeded in ensuring that even those who opposed the Statute 40 years ago today either demand it or demand its development. Socialists also join that demand. We also believe that we have capabilities to explore and agreements to culminate. And we join the approach that the Basque Government explained when at the beginning of this year the Government of Spain, led by Pedro Sánchez, committed itself to a negotiated and agreed development of that self-government, as we stated in our proposal. A commitment in force that we trust will have a possible channel, that of finally unlocking the governance of the whole country. We reiterate our commitment to modernising this self-government, adapting it to the challenges of the twenty-first century and doing so, as agreed in this Parliament, within the framework of legality. But this round anniversary also deserves future commitments and recognition of our present, why we are, why we are here, why we are parliamentarians, members of the Basque Government, why citizens feel safe in a space where nationalists and non-nationalists agree to develop policies that serve the people. And we think that that is the spirit that really permeates our present Statute. That is the first thing we want to place in our proposal, the demand for the achievement achieved on what our elders dreamed of: a Euskadi where we all fit. This initiative, therefore, is not born against anyone. It is born from the country built together, and from the commitments made to continue to make, also, a country together. And in this Euskadi, all public institutions have to be part of this shared space. That is why we are putting forward this statement, which is not a socialist statement. It is true that the Socialists are proud to be part of everything that is gathered here, but what we do is, in each paragraph, ratify each other in agreements that are shared with others. That is why we call for your support for this proposal. We live in times when principles that we already thought were trivialized: labour rights, equality of women, the dignity of the victims of dictatorship and of the victims of terrorism, democratic institutions. In addition to all this, the importance of our self-government is also trivialized and its disappearance is proposed. Basque citizens have understood these risks and wanted to shield themselves. So we interpret that he wanted to speak on the various occasions he has had this year. It has done so for the last time on November 10, overwhelmingly supporting those who have different ways of understanding Euskadi and its future, but we share some values that have made us get here, so far. Following these elections, there is an effort to set in motion a Government for the whole of Spain that preserves these fundamental values, these democratic principles and also, as is reflected in the pre-agreement already known, to ensure that solutions to the territorial problem are made in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. The Socialist Group believes that it is worthwhile to contribute from this Parliament to this effort of stability and progress. And the best way to do this – it is our criterion – is to emphasize that here we have managed to drive away the attempts to take down the space of coexistence that the Statute opens. That we have succeeded, even with the terrorist threat, in never breaking this path. That we have managed to keep from the institutions everything that was so hard to sew to overcome the dictatorship. Others have not succeeded, but here we breathe calmly knowing that we have not followed the drift of Catalonia and knowing that in the Government of Spain there will continue to be a proposal for dialogue and meeting within the framework of legality. It is in this context that this debate takes place; in a context of turbulence, but also in a context of hope. And it is especially opportune to move those often disoriented citizens that their institutions contribute to serenity, to the commitment to joint progress and to preserving plurality. And it has cost a lot, a lot – you don't have to explain it to yourself – to get here. The Basques were never able to vote before 1979 on an agreement with this scope. There has never been a longer period of progress in this period. No citizen vote in Euskadi has ever had a clearer support than that. There are many reasons to celebrate that we have come this far. And it may not have been, and the future may not be, if we are not able to highlight the value of what has been achieved as a better basis for further building. We know that there are amendments from other groups, we know that these amendments reflect partial positions. The Socialist Group calls for support for the three issues that I have stressed in principle: commitment to self-government, commitment to its development and commitment to its updating in a viable, secure and legal manner. A broad position, which we believe should be shared by all, and with that in mind we call for the support of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u83	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u84	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. To-day we shall speak of the State of Guernica, and young people like me, who are born and bred in the Basques of the State of Guernica, sometimes have several different perspectives about this state of State. The State of 1979 supposed that there were, at a certain time, not a few auto-bernations from Euskka, but also in some very important areas: in health, in education, in economy, in industry, in administration, in subjugations, and in culture, for example. And, of course, the people of my generation put all these achievements in value because they were born on a political and social agreement that could not be foreseen for a moment. But the anniversary of the Statute of Gernika also invites us to make two reflections: on the one hand we are surprised and fills us with uncertainty the fact that after so long this Statute remains unfulfilled and with many competences pending transfer; and on the other hand it challenges us towards the need to renew this law, to renew this pact of coexistence in order to shield and guarantee rights and improve the well-being of Basque citizens. Today, 40 years later, Basque citizenship is not explained why a law that represents – and I quote literally resolutions of this Parliament – "the expression of the majority will of the citizens of the Basque Country and therefore constitutes the basic institutional norm of which we have been endowed". Or "a law that represents a project of internal cohesion as a basic meeting point of the different political projects existing in Basque society, valid framework for the progressive resolution of their conflicts and their decisive contribution to the strengthening of democratic trust and peaceful coexistence". Or that "represents the commitment that must unite us all who claim the democratic legitimacy of our institutions". All these are resolutions that, of course, we make our own too. And, also, the generations that we grew up under the Statute, in many cases, we do not feel recognized in the current text of Gernika, which has visible holes and, at times, I would say that even unforgivable, such as the absence of any mention to women. That is the meaning of the amendment that we have tabled today. Amendment, Mr Pastor, equal, equal, the same as we have tabled in the other institutions in which this initiative has been presented. Therefore, it is not we who have changed our position or our allies. A first point that values the Statute of Gernika and what we have achieved through it; a point that requires the central Government to publicly ratify the commitment to comply fully with the transfers; a point that requires that this compliance be conceived as a right, and a fourth point that recognizes the need to renew the Statute of Gernika and urges us all, and urges this House, to continue working on that renewal. You all know our position. We think it's time now to fill up those holes I've just mentioned. We make a bet that the agreements we make should be the most extensive, in the matter of auto-generon. And we further believe that the innovation of our social contract cannot be regarded as the element of division, but conversely: the best instrument we have for reconnaissance, and, moreover, to say that Euskadi is multiple, and to place our present needs and our future needs in the middle for the euscal society. And from Elkarrekin We have demonstrated with clear facts and commitments our commitment to making the new statute a social tool at the service of Basque citizenship, reaching a broad agreement that makes this new statute a feminist status, adapted to the times that run; ecological, that contemplates challenges of the present and the future such as climate change; digitization; coexistence in an increasingly plural society, and how not, our relationship with the State and how to articulate the right to decide. In short, moving from a written text to a typewriter and thinking in black and white to a modern text that incorporates all the colors and nuances present in our society today. That is why we are concerned, and very concerned, that after so many years of working for the renewal of the Statute, we remain trapped in such old debates. We've been on the same screen for years, and since we can't move forward, the next screen is game over. Seeing these days the headlines who release various political forces on the table of expert people, on the future text, makes us think that some parties seem more comfortable entangled in their usual discourse than working to build bridges and reach agreements. And I sincerely believe, sincerely, that the society that brought us to the institutions requires us to work to bring forward agreements that will allow us to move forward, and also on the Statute. The question is very simple: either we agree on a new statute or we stick to the old. The new or the old. In that regard, we would like to reiterate our confidence in the group of experts who are drafting the proposal for the new statute. And we find it extremely irresponsible that his work has been hampered by suspicions, parallel texts and interested leaks, with the sole aim of fossilizing the debate in the old positions and preventing new horizons of understanding from opening up. That also drives people away from politics. Baina ez izan dudarik: batzuek sokatiran aritu nahi duzuen bitartean, guk, euskal gizartaren gehiengoak bezala, lan egingo dugu korapilo ha desegiteko, aurra joateko herri bezala, bide bebera. And that is why, with a constructive attitude, we will abstain from the original proposal of the Socialist Party and from the amendment signed by PNV and EH Bildu, but we believe that it is urgent that we be responsible and get to work. We need a new deal now. We already need a new statute. So please loosen the sokatira and let's get our hands on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u85	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u86	Madam President, thank you very much. Get out of the way. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors. Well, today, Mr. Pastor, your initiative will agree with me that it has been overcome by the expectation generated by the amendment that the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu have signed to the alimon. Because it is true that the Statute of Autonomy, our Statute of Autonomy, the most important norm of which, throughout history, we have endowed ourselves with Basques, which has allowed us some quotas of self-government as never before in our history – not recovered, but as never in our history –, quotas of self-government, of progress and of social well-being, unprecedented in the history of Euskadi, the norm that for the first time constitutes this Autonomous Community as a political subject, as a political community – something that had never happened throughout our history – deserves to be, indeed, a creditor of a recognition. But not from a recognition that as the sentence ends builds a completely different thing that destroys that recognition. It is not true that we do not want or are closed to any reform of the Statute. What we don't want is to go to a worse place. And where they're taking us is an extraordinarily worse place. To a place that alters what is Basque, because empty of content also the essence of what is Basque, which is to amputate a part of what it is to be Basque, which is to be Spanish. Amputate a part of our story... [[Barres]] It amputates a part of our fundamental history, because we do not understand the history of Euskadi without its commitment to the rest of Spain, as we do not understand the history of Spain without the participation of Basques and Basques throughout its history. What the Basque Nationalist Party and Bildu are trying to do is to be less Basque, to disfigure our condition as Basques, to alter our history to take us to an infinitely worse place. And there, indeed, the People's Party is not willing to go. But they do so through an amendment which mentioned that it says remarkable things, and it is also worth remembering. This amendment comes to say, apart from calling for the repeal of the labour reform, of the law "mordace", the same day, by the way, that we knew – someone remembered it this morning – that in the new and new bus station of Bilbao there will be cameras with facial recognition you sign, precisely, the Basque Nationalist Party signs the repeal of the wrong so-called law "mordace". Of course, in the approach of prisoners, here they have managed, in fact, to drag Bildu; they no longer ask "Amnestia bear!", they now settle for the approach of prisoners. But it says very remarkable things too, as, of course, in all this where we want to embark is fundamental – literally – "a renewal and adequacy of our competitive existence", "Skills necessary to guarantee the political, economic, social, linguistic and cultural rights of Basque citizens". As everyone knows, the Basque language in Euskadi is separated, marginalized, cannot be studied in Euskara. This Statute of Autonomy has erased the possibility of studying in Basque, because of this Statute of Autonomy or because we do not have a new one the Basque culture is also not being able to expand and our economic potential, as we do not have Economic Concert or Cup, because it is also widely damaged and we need to go somewhere else, somewhere else. This must be the post-truth. But then there is another point, also very remarkable, which is that they call on this Basque Parliament to reject "attacks against fundamental rights carried out by certain sectors and political parties of the state". And this you sign with these gentlemen; you sign with these gentlemen who are unable to make a commitment to them in this paper that you have created, that we have already said no. I was going to serve for nothing – do you remember, Mr. Egibar? – in this paper created for peace and coexistence they have been unable to draw a single commitment to peace and coexistence from them. Or, in other words, they have been unable to correct their serious record of these political leaders in the Basque Country. And they come here to sign with them that I don't know who in the rest of the state says I don't know what things. Is this really what we're going to do? Is this the confluence between the nationalist world? And they end up saying something also that is no less remarkable, because, of course, we have to sustain in some way, we have to look for references – and the Catalan nationalists have tried to do so too – we have to look abroad for a reference that supports what is proposed here. And he says that "In addition, as in other countries in the European environment, it will lead to the exercise of the right to decide". In which European country, Mr Egibar? O lords of EH Bildu, tell me a single European country that in its constitutional rules collects what you call the right to decide. Because this is another issue, it irritates much already the euphemism. You look like the right coward. Talk about what they are now openly. Because we move from calling for independence to then self-determination and now to this euphemism – which is the triple mortal leap – of the right to decide. And in the end, where you want to take us it is not to any right that you intend to decide, you want to lead us to disfigure what is Euskadi and to a de facto independence, which is provoked by emptying the presence of Spain in Euskadi, emptying the presidency of the State in this Autonomous Community, which is what you intend to do in the light of the work that has been done first in the paper and then by the so-called experts. And what you intend, in the end, has two dimensions, two dimensions. One, which is legal, is that what they intend to do is an objective and indisputable overcoming of the constitutional order. There is a proven case law of the Constitutional Court in relation to the ill-called right to decide. Accredited jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. It's a legal overflow, you look where you look. It is an emptying of constitutional requirements in relation to the competition field. It is, from every point of view, a legal nonsense. But there is a second dimension, which is no less than the legal dimension, because the legal dimension will be clarified where it has to be clarified, and there, that sheet that you carry in the flap reminds you, Mr Egibar, where those issues that affect the constitutional order are clarified, because nobody is above the law, nor an independentist. But the political dimension is extraordinarily important too. And there too we are going to give the battle, because if anyone believes that the People's Party is only going to give the battle on the legal side, they are wrong; also the ground of emotions is of those we are not nationalists. Because, even if some are surprised, those of us who are not nationalists also have feelings of belonging and want to live together in a land where we are not stinking. And we want to live with different people in a land where the singularity is also recognized and where the sense of belonging of those who are not nationalists is also recognized. Because, moreover, it is not written anywhere that being a nationalist makes you more Basque; nor is it written anywhere nor should it be accepted by anyone. Nor should it be accepted by the nationalists. Because I defend..., we defend that our history must not condition us, no doubt, but our history must not be altered, nor must it be manipulated, nor should it be lied about. And if there is anyone who is able to go out to this rostrum, or anywhere, and affirm that what you intend to do gathers, is heir to a preterite Euskadi, perhaps for that debate you have some argument, some tool, but it is materially impossible, because it is not held anywhere. And some historian is in this room. Therefore, there is another way of understanding Basque, which is not the nationalist, and I humbly believe that it is better than the nationalist, because it does not limit us, because it does not section parts of our identity, because it does not force us to choose if you want one more or you want another more, because it does not strain the coexistence between Basques, because it allows citizens to be as they believe and as they want and as they like, and that it has rules in which it does not tilt the balance to one side to the detriment of the other, which is what the Statute of Autonomy in force meant, an extraordinary, magnificent meeting point. And to go somewhere else, Mr. Pastor, you better not go. If we go to another place, it is to improve, to broaden coexistence, to widen meeting spaces, to strengthen them more, not to impoverish them, which is what these gentlemen intend. So, what do we have to stay with? With the breaking of affections? With the breakup of our story? With us becoming less plural, less Basque? By disfigurement of what Euskadi is, that historical but extraordinary and wonderful complexity? And we want to preserve the complexity of Euskadi, we want to preserve that extraordinary plurality, which is one of our main signs of identity, which forges our character. Some have already tried to put an end to plurality. These with which you now sign that there are attacks on fundamental rights have already sought to end our plurality by defending violence as a political tool, defending terrorism as a tool to impose a political idea; these with which you are going to sign this today. You don't have to go to Congress of Deputies or anywhere else, they're here. We can't falsify history in this either, Mr. Egibar. A homeland is not worth it, nor is a flag worth disfiguring history. No, they're not worth it. And I'm going to tell you one thing to finish, because I'm done – thank you, Madam President, for your generosity. Look, we, unlike other speeches, do not believe that you will be able to separate us from Spain. We don't think so. What we do believe is that they can turn us into Catalonia. And I can assure you that as long as the People's Party has some kind of representation and strength in this House and in Basque politics, that will be very complicated for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u87	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u88	Mrs. President, thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Pastor: late, bad and never. Late, because today is November 27th, and the Status Day was October 25th. You should know this because you imposed it as a holiday; unless this proposal does not contain another purpose. Bad, because it does not bring anything, neither materially nor politically. Nothing constructive, I mean. Materially, you have had many years to complete this Statute, to fulfill it, some with "absolutely" majority. But you ignore the law once and at the same time demand that others do it. You bring this proposal, which you have repeatedly avoided the implementation of this Statute. You, who have curtailed it on the basis of basic laws of the State, using the courts, in short, using a thousand ways. In any case, in Euskal Herria Bildu we believe that what is happening is what you want to happen, because it responds to a subordination relationship that you want to perpetuate: González, Aznar, Zapatero, Rajoy and Sánchez have failed this Statute, and that is what you want to celebrate. Bad, therefore. Although they must be recognized the merit, that is that they also manage to associate and bind a partner like the Basque Nationalist Party in most of the institutions. And never, because they never propose anything constructive. I have told you on several occasions in this Parliament. I could remind you of the words of your founder, of Paul Iglesias, not of your apparent new partner, but of the founder of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. The founder of his party – and he said it in Spanish courts, by the way – said: "This party, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, is in legality as long as legality allows it to acquire what it needs. Outside of legality, when she does not allow her to fulfill her aspirations." We could also remember one of Mrs. Mendia's predecessors, when Txiki Benegas manifested himself by holding a banner asking for self-determination. I want to call them to reflection, because from completely distant points of view and starting points, the best solution for all and for all, which is an advantage for all and for all, is that of an agreement that recognizes the existence of national realities different from Castilian. And to recognize that these nations, whether Euskal Herria, Catalonia or Galicia, have the right to decide their own future, as other nations do in Europe. This is not only the best formula, but the only and definitive one, even for Spain. The only one that secures its future by definitively closing a great problem that has been dragging for centuries and that generates a great loss of energy to face its own future successfully: to pass the page of repression, to pass the page of imperialism and to open up to a modern and – I hope – democratic state. As they arrive we will oppose his initiative and we will be delighted, moreover, that they join ours; because there is no, there is no line in it to which the Spanish Socialist Workers Party must oppose. And the same goes for Podemos. There is no rational reason for this, unless it is a nantine defence of the unity of Spain, but that is not a rational reason. As is not the case in the agreement on bases and principles approved by the self-government paper, which we will have to re-infuse the tooth from next week on, bringing back the manoeuvres between the scenes of those who have been able to claim to steal the debate from this Parliament. I repeat: we will support the amendment and not the socialist proposal, because we cannot give up the obvious: that this country called Euskal Herria exists, is a nation and therefore has the right to decide its future without guardianship or vasallage. And you have the right to decide your future so you can take care of people. I'll read our middle-class, because Mr. Sémper did it in a confused way, but I think it's important to meet him well. "The law of Europe confirms the demands of the end of the state of Guernica to complete its development, and confirms that the space of power which has not yet been transferred to the State itself. "The legislative of the world rejects political expressions and tactics, which aim to prevent the development of the Euscal autoberon, to abolish and to condition. In this sense, OLMCE, requires the abolition of law as a work form or form. We demand, too, that at the present day, the abolition of the exception of the policy of prison and the removal of all prisoners of euscals and bringing them to the prison barracks, and the release of those who are seriously and incurable diseases. "The law of Europe expresses that the establishment of the euscal auto-genera must contain the rights of the rights we have left, and adapt them to the demands and wants of the euscal society, to guarantee the rights of the community; political, economic, social, liguistic and cultural. "In that case, the Basque parliament rejects several sectors of the state and political parties... " It's like, "It's... to resist fundamental rights, as far as to demand ideologian illegalization." And lastly, at the fifth point, he says, "That a new organization of communication is indispensable to the State, in order that they may establish mutual respect for one another honest culture and loyalty between the organization, which will not allow them to comply with the law and the agreement obtained, and consequently will not prevent it from making any political use of these observances. This new arrangement must be founded on differences and agreement, and must receive its proper security, as it were on principles and principles agreed upon by the self-generonity of the system. Besides, as in other countries of Europe, it may be allowed to exercise the right of deciding the people." And when I read this, I want to ask the Euca-Jelter a question too. I want to ask him how much this is worth. We want to know where the Jeltist Party of the West is: In this correction, where correct appeals are made to the fundamental principles or principles of the agreement of self-generonity, or to the subordinate scheme which this state wants us to have. We want to know where, as this medium says, the right to decide is on the way to commit or decide. We say it plainly and distinctly: We are in an agreement, in the agreement we have made with you. And we say the same thing in private and here in public. This middle course will come out today, clearly, and we are perfectly satisfied with everything that is summed up in this middle term. But what offer shall we make to this village tomorrow? Again, a dependency offer? Or we shall offer a promise to determine the future, which will give the power to decide all things in the future, which will receive a political concert, but not in mere words, not in mere groups, but in the form of a political concert filled with it. Or shall we stay, because some say it is occultity, with regard to it as occurity? I think it is very clear, because this people have insisted that the majority of this people will determine their future. That's how it always describes it. We agreed that when we came here, we would work to do this request, that we would do everything that was in our power to do, and that we would arrange that request on our way. And that's all we've done so far. And we're still doing that, like we've been doing. What I'd like to know is, like this middle-way, that you'll be in a place where we'll be escorting the Jest Party or some other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u90	Good afternoon. First of all, it's not a medium: It's something we signed at the same time. He seems to have been spectivating or something, but it's just that Borja Sémper reminds us of the same debate we had a few months ago. And in this assembly of the whole there was a resolution exactly the same as that of the voter which we have brought before us today. So, in the middle of the spectivity, it's so far away that we should remember what happened and what was discussed in the past. But there's a self-interest in the news today, and why, from now on, we've known the scholarships from this day forward. Yesterday, at the Permanen, the Digital Decretu of Madrid has been admitted by the Socialist Party, the Potion Party, and Ciudadanus, and by the Absence of Podemus, we voted against it, of course, because it hurts the auto-bernation. And, indeed, we have just been acquainted with the fact that, though here and there again, the Constitutional Court itself has said that there is an article and transitory 18th, and that this member autonomical author belongs to the social security of society. Also, it has happened, so it has today's experience. What's going on? That in the past, and not so near, the attitudes and attitudes of the past remain. Why do we propose with our proposition, our amendment, and, on the one hand, the defence of what we have, because it is not a joke that the State of Guernica supposes and has it, even though it be not fulfilled, where are we? We're also here because we don't hide our past. The past, as far as 79th is concerned with the structure of this people, is here. We have to defend it, of course, today's duty. Why, from the national view and from the point of view of a modern society, whether social rights, economics, politicals, language rights, and cultures, this country requires other tools to be able to win the future, and to guarantee all these rights. Of course, the rights and collective rights of individual people. So that's why we have to do it for today, and that's just what we have to do for the power. From the point of view, this people have a right to judge and determine what means to-day, and, with the greatest possible consensus, proceed. Eta zer eskatzen of hirugarrenak? It's disrespectful, it's disrespectful. Horiek will say hiru kontzeptuak: defense, update and respect. He doesn't have much of a secret. And multiplicity is cited, over and over again. Multiplicity. We're a multiple society, yes, it's true, and there are collective personalitys. It's indisputable. Borja Sémper himself mentioned his two collective personalitys: of being eroscal and Spanish. We don't fit in that. What we're saying is that there is only one way of understanding a variety politically symmetrically, at least from a democratic point of view. Multiplication means politically that if all political projects are democratic, in order to develop, to develop, to develop all political projects, minimal conditions are required. And the only condition of the people is that which lies beyond them. If the political project wants to go on, it'll need a popular protection. And the roads must, of course, be democratic. And that's the guarantee, too, that this country demands. A political project, a democratic one, to be able to develop. And that's what Spain denies. He denies, because he does not acknowledge the character of this people, or acknowledge the character of the people. Why these collective rights, independently of the right of individuals, belong to the people. And that's not allowed. And therefore when it is said, "Yes, that's right, that's a democratic law, but there's a legal law here," "Yes, yes, and there's an anchor in historical rights." You say they are the historical rights of historical lands. And we say, besides these, that historical countries have rights, but that there are rights in the forum, and that there are rights of the people. And it is the law itself that acknowledges the States of Guernica. What then depends on: is a democratic principle subordinate to legality or conversely? Who breathes legality? The majority must be democratic, democratic, and not vice versa. And there may be an endless discussion, but I, in short, have spoken of it. What do we want, eh? confirm the expression mentioned in the document, in the proposition made by us, the state established, confirmed, and completed. The state in force ought to be formed, and in the parts where it has been reduced, we must endeavour to cover it, to supply it, and to supply it, why this state, which is now at present established, has been reduced; therefore, in those parts where everything has been respected and reduced and diminished, we must refill it, and correct it. And then, looking at the future, of course, Lander mentioned it, we must renew it. New responsibility has been created, and we, the Basque institutions or institutions, have their business. But in order to answer all these new grievances, social rights are identical with climates or whatever they may be, or the right of language is required to protect all these rights, a new powerful political equipment, which demands to-day, self-organization. And that's what power does. If that is what it is now how it is: It is clear, therefore, by respect of what is set up, Mrs. Irrea. Where are we? By respecting what has been built, by protecting it, by keeping it up, why forty years have passed, and watch for the guarantees of the maintenance of the state. It's still full after 40 years. Of course, in what sense and wherefore, and how to do this, a popular protection is required. And to have a wide national armor, the wider the agreement of this Chamber is, the better. Better, why the projection is different, there is a political party, two, three, or four. The popular armor is clear, that it is impossible, whether you will or not. That's what we plan on this proposition. And I saw it, yes... The Socialist Party says that it was a successful time for the State to place it in this country and that it was a source of well-being. That is true; who will deny it? But there's a responsibility for not keeping the state. 40 years have passed, and, as has been said, the Socialist Party has been able to do so by the absolute majority. When Merchell Batet and Josu Erkoa want to establish the calendar, the Social Security Party, the Spanish Government won't include Social Security. He doesn't want to introduce Social Security. Why? And now the Constitution says: "No, no. That's in the state. That must be changed manually." So who's in charge? And what inspiration is there: In case of the State, or of the State, which has been left unfinished, every now and then, with the Jestal Party, or other parliamentary group, the Rolling together, will continue to negotiate gradually in Madrid, to see what speed the State is filled with, another 40 years? So we don't accept a dependency scheme. We're not looking at the past, but we have the past. And the people, the majority of the people, know that the past is near and not so near, that this people have their responsibility. And in order to build the future, it is absolutely necessary to know whence we come from, and to determine the future, the direction, the direction, the content, and the rhythm. And for that, as far as possible, we would be willing to obtain the greatest protection in this legislature, and we will endeavour to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u91	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u92	Well, let's see if in these minutes we can specify some aspects to each of the interveners, right? I believe that all of you without exception, we can, too, unfortunately, have placed more emphasis on what we lack than on the demand for what we have. And it seems to me that this is a mistake; that the great achievement of the Statute, with the drawbacks it has in non-compliance, that I recognize you and the Basque Socialists have never denied you..., but it seems to me very important that it be claimed how much progress we have made in this country thanks precisely to the Statute. A Statute that these gentlemen, by the way, fought for a long time. What needs improvement and updating? Of course, but I would like to remind all of you that the first proposal made by the Basque Socialists in the self-government speech was to bet on a federal reform of the Constitution. And it had no success, because they said that, in the political climate that was breathing in Spain, it was impossible. And this is easier? Is it easier for you to achieve this politically than a federal reform of the Constitution, especially now that a space of opportunity is opened in Spain for a new government that can address the territorial crisis in another way? I'd like you to think a little bit about all this. Man, Bildu has made a sort of leap in the void, as if we were beginning to talk about the Statute... I already understand that it is very difficult for them to talk about when the Statute was approved, why it was approved, how it was approved and the successive events it had to suffer. I mean, that kind of not claiming the fact, well, I understand it because you fought it, and you even fought it with dead people on the street, right? And now it seems to me very good that you bet on a new status, but why don't you, as we have proposed, opt for a federal reform of the Constitution to manage the Basque reality in another way? Because we have not refused to talk about the concept of a nation in the Statute either. Another thing is the dimension that each one wants to give him. But we cannot be asked to commune with a concept that, although it is now disguised as a right to decide, was formerly called independence and is now self-determination. And those concepts don't fit within the Constitution, and you know it perfectly well. Also the Lords of Podemos, who, by the way, I have to tell you that what you have signed here is one thing and what you signed with the PNV in Bilbao City Hall is another. And we, at least, can assume that in all places we say exactly the same thing, not according to the institution where they are and the partner with whom they agree. And then, frankly, this has sounded to me, Mrs Iriarte and Mr Egibar, a kind of theatre, which I do not know if I believe when you say that you are renouncing the agreement with these gentlemen and that you are presenting an alternative proposal because you have betrayed them, and that is the real ones, both of you, or are now the good ones, which you must believe when you jointly sign a proposal that until four days ago you rejected and staged publicly in the media that were absolutely far away and accused these gentlemen of moving away from consensus and of betraying the commitments of the laying of foundations. I don't know what I have to stay with: with Mr. Egibar who deals with you in the self-governing presentation some bases or with Mr. Egibar whom you now accuse of not fulfilling that commitment? Which one, which one? With what Bildu and what PNV do I have to stay with? With what Mr. Egibar says now? With the proclamations that Mr. Urkullu makes and that I basically share? Because it creates doubts, it creates doubts, and I think you are playing to make a scenario of political staging to try to bring each one of you to your mill and get electoral revenue. Honestly, I don't think it's serious that you're playing with this subject on that short-flight policy scenario, do you? I believe that you, Mrs Iriarte, have few arguments and little legitimacy to name even Mr Benegas, nor to name him, because he had to suffer you, unfortunately, for many years. And Mr. Benegas, it is true that he carried the flag of self-determination until the very moment when the agreement of the Constitution and the Statute was reached, and there he considered a political objective fulfilled. And do you know what an illustrious socialist, Ramón Rubial, the first lehendakari of this country, of the Basque General Council, also said? "The Statute must be the place where people are defended, mainly." That is what we continue to defend so far. And I, Mr Egibar, with regard to the mention made of the ruling by the Constitutional Court – which I am glad that you are now claiming the Constitutional Court – will not be so bad and so perverse for the Spanish State when it is able to say that, in fact, as the Basque Socialists have also said with you, it recognizes you the right to transfer the economic system of social security. In short, it will not be this perverse state that seeks only the humiliation of the Basque people, will it? They have rules by which, as you have seen today, when it is found that it is indeed a competitive title, it is recognised that it exists. And, by the way, I have to remind you that in Mr Erkoreka's talks with Mrs Batet it is the first time that a timetable of transfers has been agreed, which was then frustrated by other reasons outside of you and outside of us. And I only urge you to take advantage – I am sure you will – of the historic responsibility that is being opened up in Spain at this time to deal with a government that is different from what we have had, broad-spectrum and sensitive to the territorial situation in Spain. lehendakariak Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours. martínez Hironez – why you bring this initiative and why you did not bring it a month ago, which is when it was the anniversary of the Statute – then we will not be able to reach a common point. For, it is true, this is what I expected to be a harder argument, and it was not so. But putting their points on the table isn't just good enough to get to the agreements. What I'm seeing is, there's a discussion today, that everyone puts his points on the table and that there's not much trouble, but we're still seeing that in the first weeks we're dealing with this kind of thing and that the people we have are getting into trouble with are both leaks and things like that. I think it's time for us to get the laws out as far as we're politicians, we're supposed to make a deal, and it's time for us to get ahead of ourselves. I'll say again that we're not staying with the old man because we want a new one. And in this sense I also refer to Mr Pastor. We have put everything we have achieved in the Statute of Gernika into value, and we put it into value in this amendment, but if we want to look to the future, we have to think and we have to look and we have to discuss and discuss what issues we have to deal with in the future. It is not exclusive, as it is not exclusive to talk about constitutional reform in federal or even confederal terms, and to move forward here in a reform of the Statute. Not even one condition the other. I believe that these are two acceptable paths and that it does not have to condition each other. So I think it's important that we don't have a failure in the next few weeks, the failure of a new state. We had a lot of initiation about a couple of years ago, three years ago, to get rid of all the locks they're in. We proposed two tables, because we knew there would be locks on some points in the state's discussion, but it was necessary that this state should be carried on. And maybe we'll see that in the next few weeks we'll be involved in taking in some kind of initiation to get rid of these locks and bring them back to the reforms of the State. We'll still wait. Let us wait to be a new text, and there we shall have time to discuss, there will be time to correct text, to listen to, and to hear among us all. I hope that this is a chance for us all to take advantage of and be tall about what our citizens ask us to do. Thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Popular. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours. Perligual Émper Mr. Lehendakari, look where we are. Gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, to the House in general: look at what historical moment we are in; the context, our environment, and in relation to it, the situation proper to the Basque Country. After four decades of asphyxiating and terrible terrorism that has caused extraordinary damage to this society as a whole – in particular cases, but in this society as a whole – of years of unbearable confrontation, division, irreconcilable blocs, today Euskadi can look to other autonomous communities, to other places, with a distance that we were relatively few years ago unable to imagine. And it turns out that it's like there was a centrifugal force that forced us into a grudge, that led us permanently to seek out what divides us instead of what unites us. A kind of unequivocal will, above all, on the part of part of this parliamentary arc and part of it, which leads us to seek the difference and to break the consensus that has allowed us to move forward, despite terrorism, in those 40 years as never before in our history. Because we're not talking about a competitive issue. Here the problem is not whether or not the Statute of Autonomy has been fulfilled, which objectively, in its substantial part, gives political tools to be able to progress and to be able to make a society evolve, is clearly fulfilled. Because, if what we're talking about is jails, you've never loved them while ETA was killing, you've never loved them because you didn't want to become jailers. Or if we are talking about the economic system of social security, that this last judgment, Mr Egibar, does not contribute anything; there is already jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which says in what terms the transfer should be done and that it should be carried out. But you are not interested as the Constitutional Court has established, you want something else. Another thing that we do not share because it puts at serious risk the single social security fund and, therefore, the pensions of the Basques and, therefore, their well-being. So, above the ideology must be the practical wisdom of what really matters to people, which is to collect their pension and have it guaranteed. In a context, by the way, full of uncertainties, too, about the future of the pension system. And you, what you intend to do is to introduce even more elements of instability or confusion. And a very remarkable part, Mr Egibar, which seems to me at the end to be part of the heart of the matter. Look, I confess to you that I don't have too much attachment to collective identities; I don't have it, but this is something very particular, very personal. Everyone understands identity in a way, because that is personal, because identity – in my opinion – is personal. What is true is that there are people who live it differently. This is also true, and it must be recognized; I recognize it. And what I'm telling you is that if we enter that field, there are perfectly compatible and non-minority identities, precisely in this land, which live naturally – each one to a greater or lesser degree – with its Spanish and Basque status. And you send him out saying, "We don't go in there." What do you mean, we're not going in there? This is the crux of the matter. Because what you're going to do with EH Bildu, what you're already putting black on white, Mr. lehendakari, and that we vote today... Mr. Egibar, how will you not awaken this expectation? If we have spent years with the baton this of the self-government presentation, so that we now have breakfast – once again, a few hours before the conclusions are presented – already telling us what they are, which is the right to self-determination! So, what have the experts been for, what have we been for before, why are we going back together, if we already know what the end is? Of course it generates political expectation, because the context, obviously, is not the same! Of course they have voted on it on numerous occasions in this House, in this own legislature, and I think I remember that at this very session, on independence or, in this case, the right to self-determination, or, in this case, the right to decide! Of course they did! But, just a few hours before the experts present their conclusions, it becomes even more relevant, it becomes even more relevant politically. And, Mr. Pastor, when you talk about the territorial sensitivity that Mr. Sánchez is going to bring, we really worry some of us. Here, the sensibility... Hey, look, we're all sensitive, you know? But one thing is called the law, the rule of law, the constitutional order. And if the sensitivity is, in exchange for being president of the government, "Amen, Jesus" to ERC, "Amen, Jesus" to what these lords decide, "Amen, Jesus" to whatever it is, that is not sensitivity, that is Mr. Sánchez's irresponsibility. It's a tremendous irresponsibility. No, this is my political position, our political position: that at the expense of everything it does not justify being President of the Government. Because you have to govern a country, you have to conform to some laws... Listen, and we also have to try to make things work out reasonably well. And I assure you that there are fellow travellers – and this also goes for you, Mr Lehendakari – who do not guarantee, precisely, that the destination of that journey is reasonable. And every week that goes by, every initiative you adopt here in the Basque Parliament, with these gentlemen, there is less room to back off. And in this you should take good note of what has happened in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u94	Thanks again. Mr. Pastor, you're always talking about the federal reform of the Constitution, and that's the kind of rabbit you get out of the joke or know since when, but then you don't do anything. And you've had a chance to do it over and over again, with "absolutely" majorities, as I told you before, but you don't do any of that. And then, you talk about summarizing: what adds up, what divides up... Well, I would also tell you that, for example, it divides job insecurity or poverty or the wage gap or the difference between men and women. And you, neither here nor there have done great things. [[Berber]] And, well, it also divides the digital decree, which you, in short, so, in plan decree, approved yesterday. What a letter of introduction for a government that defines itself as progress or wants to be progress, even if we are in the prolegomens! Anyway, you say what it is to add and what it is to divide, and I find myself with many things that divide this society very much. I believe that it divides the veto, and that it divides the impossibility for citizens to decide their future democratically and to decide on all political options. And you don't allow us that. And, Mr. Pastor, it divides beating people on the street; it also divides. And you know you have to open up to a democratic state. You know that this is the solution, the real solution. You know that the immobilism of the Spanish political system has been and is absolutely irresponsible, especially when there are very important majorities demanding that they want to decide their future. This is it. Mr. Egibar, you said that you want it and that you want a proposal that will be the greatest protection in this legislature. And so do we. I believe that I have said this to you several times, and that I have said so here for many other times, we would have a most protected consent. But what's that agreement for? I asked the President in the pliant of general policy, and now I ask you: for what is this more extensive harmony in return? We're also for the big deal, but do we make room for the veto? We'll have a wider consent to decide if the right to decide is abandoned or depressed. I am prepared for extensive agreements, but I believe that we agreed to some principles and principles, which I heard you maintain with great majority, that the plurality of our agreement here, some of them, seems to give a label to plurality, but I believe that you and we are very different in many things, and therefore we think very different; and therefore that there are some who give their label to us, and I ask what is going on with which we have received the principle, and what is prepared for us to make a greater part of the sect. Because at this historic moment, because I feel that, at this historic moment, the Jestric Party of the Euscals must also step forward in the path of a state of eupulka, and make a road for it, I shall say in public and private, that the help of collecting the Basque People, and of agreeing on the way, and of agreeing to the following route, and of deciding whether this state, which has hitherto been the indispensable piece of Spain, has been laid down, and of thousands and persons who have claimed it in the Basque and once again in the Catalum. That's what I want to know. If you're on the first floor, you'll gather the Basque Country and the thousands of men and women in this village will be ready. Thousands and thousands of men, even those who vote at your party, because they already are selling or preparing the Tripship's lottery for questioning. Yes, every one does his job as best he can, and as far as he can, but he does believe it. And these women and men, too, do the work for the right to decide, Mr. Egibar, and that's the way it is. And, as I was saying, if you are first, thousands of women and thousands of men will be with us. The Basque People will also be gathered together, and there will be many of the agents of this people, because the majority of this people require a right to decide. Or else? If not, the Basque People will continue to work. They will continue working for the right of deciding the work, and will continue to work for the future in order that this people may be an independent Euscal Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u96	With all due respect, Mrs. Irart, I don't think that position is appropriate. "For what? Will he surrender again, will you accept the order of submission from Spain? If not, why come with us, there are so many men and so many women, and we will win with all of us." Why do you take that paper, as you always do, to interpret things? I mean, when you say to me, "What for, where were you, where have you been? "I don't know. I told you before. I still remember... If, when the Constitution voted, I had the opportunity to vote in this country, and I didn't vote, we went to Abstium. And 70% of the population went to Absten. He agreed to 30,8%... I'm sorry, it was a negative, but it was abscessory, obviously, the greatest. Even in the state, 59% voted. I voted for yes, and they voted for 90 percent, and I was there, right? Then this town has made a career. And I remember doing mitinies before the House of Times became president, or when Juan Mari Palace was to defend the State in the Place of Orio, isn't it? Well, maybe too many years in politics or in town, but I've got memory, and I know where we were and where we were going and what we were going for. We will not allow the collective right of this people, or the decorating the character of this or the nation of the Basques. We won't accept it. This is why, among other things, the largest column of the State of Guernica. There is the constitutional subject, there it is, because it is the Basque Country. Then it's called Euscadi. And there are historical rights in the Constitution, as well as in the State. We're not going to let that slip. From that point on, if others accept these great columns, there will be a way of building them all. And it is natural for nations and nations to decide. That's why we say the right to decide, but we're in a certain state today, or we're in between two states, until... He'll have to talk, he won't be able to do one-sided exercise. At first, at least, you have to make an agreement. So, the popular character, and what we say, the right to decide isn't just a box, but social rights, economics, politicians, language rights... Everybody to make sure. That's the right to decide. Well, that's not what we're going to refuse, but please share a few minors with others, don't we? I mean, no, no, an agreement, even in a social area, together with Podemos. But there are other political parties. I don't know a line yet, I don't even read a line about what they've done, not even a line. I don't know what they're running. Then we must see whether anything can be discussed in the language or not, and why, it seems, there will be a great deal of texts. Now, ponciency must do its work to bring it together or unite it all. Borja Semper once again raised the issue of collective rights and so on. I, when I said in Basque that the basis of political plurality is that all democratic political projects, first, must be respected and must have the possibility to materialize that project... They must have the opportunity, provided they have popular support and use democratic means. And, of course, that is the democratic principle, which is the right that also assists the Basque people – because we are not only Basque society, we are Basque people – the right that assists them to decide their future, to be consulted on their future and to have that determination, freely and democratically expressed, respected. That is the democratic anchor, and the technical, legislative and legal anchor is in historical rights. We must combine that peaceful tradition of what has been historic rights with the democratic will of the present. That is what the paper has put forward on its bases: to try this symbiosis in the tradition pacted, pact, with the democratic principle. And I don't say that, I used to say Herrero de Miñon in this House. Of course, I know you don't like Herrero de Miñon, but he is one of the parents of the Constitution. And he said in this House, he went on to say: "Constitutional law, either serves to resolve conflicts of power, conflicts of identity, conflicts posed by freedom, or serves no purpose. The future of the Basque people must be what the Basques want." It is not just about living together – which also is – but above all, and in the light of the discussions we have had on pacification and standardisation, it is about coexisting, at least, coexisting. That there is a plurinational state and those nations must be able to live together without nullifying each other. Co-exist from respect; respect for the Basque nation, the Spanish nation, the Catalan nation and the Galician.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u97	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the original proposal which the Basque Socialists have proposed to the team. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 55; Abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u98	So, not allowed original text. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; contraries, 64; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u99	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the contrary, 65; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u100	So, it's not accepted the full correction of the population team. And finally, we vote for the full correction of the EH and Eubertians together. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the contrary, 18; the Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u101	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. The eighth point in the subject list: "The other proposal, as the Parlamentarian Group did, concerning the jobs of the working-makers' work-in-law. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. De Bengoche has the word to represent and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Lehendakari, councillors, parliamentarians. For me, it is a pleasure at the moment to announce to you that at least we will close this plenary session with a positive vote unanimously. Many times in this plenary we talk about equality and discuss it from each of our points of view. Because yes, we all agree on equality, but we each focus it from a point of view. Because, let's see, I, the heteropatriarchy, so, like, it might be yes, but also, rather than no. And what's wrong with us? That speaking in general about these issues is very difficult to coincide with. Well, I wanted to remind you that the other day I read in an article... Ideology is necessary, and, of course, we are not going to give up our ideology, but I read – and I thought it was very correct – that the best way to escape from reality was to get stuck in one's own ideology; in this way you have everything already solved and you don't need to see reality. We have also talked a lot in the past about recruitment. And as we have spoken in general... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u103	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u104	... and as we have each spoken from our point of view, it has been very difficult to reach an agreement. That is why I believe that, if we look at concrete aspects, concrete collectives with specific circumstances, it will be much easier to agree. And so it has been in this case. Let's talk a little bit about the collective. Look, we're facing two groups that are mostly female, mostly female, and with very high rates of single parenthood. And it turns out that they've been in temporary circumstances for about five years – that's good, they're five years – to people in this group who have been temporary for 22 years. And let us be honest: do you believe that if we had such a collective of men this would have been maintained? Tell me a group of men, in addition, employed by the public administration, who have been on temporary duty for 22 years. I believe that here, when we talk about equality, we are going to go from talking about the general, where we may not agree, to talking about the concrete, that we all certainly agree. Well, not everyone, there's one that's not there, but anyway, go, mostly. That is why we are bringing this debate to plenary today, and we are pleased that we all agree. I actually think we're all very tired; I'm not going to read everything, but I just want to say that we're going to solve the problem of some people who are mostly, at ninety-nine eat something percent, women, who are in a difficult situation, who have a very high single parenting rate. In addition, they rarely get a full day, because they are people – such as home help, which is usually a problem for municipalities – who have five hours, four hours, six hours. So, we're talking about people who can just make a little over nine hundred, a thousand euros, which prevents them from getting help, but they have to keep their family with these money. And that is the reality; and there all those who advocate equality will agree. So, we're going to solve this problem, and for me it's a pride that you all agree. And so that, from theory to facts, and that's what we're going to do today. And that is why I, our group as a proposer, thank you, but no merit, because the whole House has merit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u105	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengoechea. Passing to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u106	Good afternoon. Yeah, I'm gonna try to be brief, too, because there's a broad agreement. But, Mrs De Bengoechea, I have to tell you that I do not share your view that, if I have not misunderstood you, the agreement is possible because we abandon ideological points of view and go to concrete things. I believe that even when we deal with concrete things like this, behind the position that we take by the different groups there is, of course, an ideological position. Another thing is that I believe that behind the objective of this initiative that you have brought and that I share, and my group shares, behind it there is a position that does not correspond to the ideological position that your political party applies to policies in the world of work and in the world of work. That is, of course, our opinion, and I would not have entered this issue if you had not spoken about the ideological issue, but I cannot share that. But it is true, I share the objective that you have brought with this non-law proposal and I am glad that there has been an agreement. The deal was very easy. I would like to say that the situation of this group is mainly due to the recruitment policies that we have in the Basque public administration, which are based on a temporaryity and an interinity that is brutal. And as a result of these policies we have situations such as that of this, indeed, highly feminized collective, and that of other similar collectives working for the public administration. That's why I think there are two tasks to be done. Today we have put to the government, with this initiative, that I am glad that you have succeeded with it, Mrs De Bengoechea – I am glad to say – we are putting a very concrete task on a particular group. But I believe that there is also an outstanding task on recruitment policies, on how we want the Basque public administration to be, and on how we want the world of work to be managed, on the people who work for the entire public administration, on the whole of the Basque public administration. And I know that it is not the debate, there is the Basque public employment law, which is stuck, and I agree that that is where this issue should be discussed. And I also share – it was discussed the other day following Mrs Ubera's initiative – that this government has failed to comply with agreements with trade unions that would come to address issues such as these. But beyond this, and because, in fact, I also share the view that Members of Parliament will be tired and that they will want us to finish, I will simply say that I am glad that we have reached a broad agreement, that I believe that we have instructed the Basque Government to do something concrete and that we will then have to wait for those results. And the groups that have signed this will also have to work, collaborate and pressure the government to make that a reality. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u107	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. EHGG rep. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u108	Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs. Bengochea, you know we had the same discussion last week at the thread of the legal proposition our party introduced. Then, from the general point of view, we proposed a general frame to all the collective ones, not only watching the kitchens and washing machines of education, but also, in the end, all the staff of the administration, all the collective people who worked in the department, with a large supply of provisionalness. And not only last week, but two weeks ago we had a discussion about the collectives which you mentioned are feminized: about the clerks and homeworkers around the house, EMPANYING, which are very feminized collectives, but we didn't even have the support of the group. If we had accepted our legal proposal last week, we would already have had some time advanced, and we would have demanded self-respect, this regulation, or that frame, we should already have begun to work. And besides, instead of waiting for the government, we'd be doing it later. But, alas, it was not so: We refused. And sometimes when the propositions are introduced, it seems to be more weighted than the content of who presents them. And it's a shame, we think that's a shame. And we're looking at what's going on, because, for example, all the legal suggestions we're presenting are drawn back. But when this is done, especially when the citizens are injured, and especially the workers or people who are in this situation. The subject we're discussing is very important. It's very important, because the rate of provisionalness we have is enormous. We are in a state of exemption, and, of course, we must assign the exceptions to this condition. And as Mr. Hernandez said, so did I last week: this was not the effect of chance. This has been the consequence of a specific policy of opposition, which OPE did not, for one reason or another. But in the end, it's a serious problem. And it is certain that the subject is corrupted, or already corrupted, and that it is time to arrive at it by necessity, and settle it. He's in the fixer-upper and above all he can't make sure he doesn't come back. Which means changing the contraction model. It's true that the public function is very obsolete, very old, that it needs to be updated, that it needs to be changed, but first we need to place a floor. And in order to place a soil, we must first apply some exceptions, which may be made in one way or another, but must be done. And to put on a good soil, what are we supposed to do? Well, first, we'll have to identify the uncoded jobs, we'll have to make a diagnosis, what jobs are (a list). Then we'll have to put on these jobs a financial, a fund to get ahead and start the consolidation processes. And when we have this, then we shall have to set up the proceedings to settle them. And when they're very high percentages, there's more than one shift, and special processes can be started, right? We can perform special investigations according to the categories. But it has to be done. And it is true that there may also be other ways; there may be possibilities. And it seems to me, as we have been able to agree today, that from now on, descending into details, we should be able to agree with all this, because, in fact, there is a great need, even about the kitchens and washing machines in education. So, to say that, I mean today's deal is important. And whether from now on it is the same whether we are able to work seriously and to get to the point. It's just to see what happened today in the union elections of the general administration at the Lake. People have uncovered what they need, what they want, and it's clear that we'll have to get into the subject. And from that we must begin by making changes around public function, adapting the public function to new times, and taking a turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u110	Well, also, quite briefly. This non-law proposal was born in the Education Commission that we had on 23 October – as Mrs Bengoechea already announced there – in the presence of two representatives of the cleaning work group assigned to the department. In short, what has been done is to transfer that debate that we held in the committee to the plenary of Parliament. It is true – and I think it is something we all agree on – that the problem is complicated to solve and to tackle. It is not a job to use, it is an access to the public administration, and this entails certain regulations and access systems other than the usual ones, because for access to the public service the Government has rules and procedures. And in addition to this cleaning collective – as has already been said, practically feminized in its entirety – there are also other groups that are in the same conditions, which also suffer from this precariousness due to the rate of interinity and temporality and which are also part of the educational community in many cases. They are not officials of the Basque Government, but they enter the Department of Education and other departments, and efforts must be made to prevent this from becoming a situation of discrimination against other persons in the same department. As we mentioned in the committee – we say it again here today – the way to work is open. The cleaning unit is staff, not fixed; they are of a temporary nature, and that is exactly what causes the uncertainty as to whether or not they are going to continue in their job, or even under what conditions it will occur. I therefore believe that we should explore this possibility of regulating from the point of view of the labour legislation of the public service. And we also find it interesting to put forward a consolidation system, which we believe would go in phases. And this, as I have been quoting, would serve not only for the cleaning community, but for many others who may be in the same conditions. And this consolidation should have priority and focus on those people who are closest to the retirement age and go down, because it is understood that the other people still have a certain margin and a career path that is not within the reach of those who are close to the retirement age. In any case, we all agreed that this is a complicated situation, which is not easy to solve, although alternatives have been proposed, because jobs have very specific characteristics from the public service and this should be dealt with as an exceptional situation. Another alternative could be, like another, to fix existing contracts of a labour nature, which are not at this time of an indefinite nature. In short, the main thing is to be able to guarantee the stability of jobs, progress, passage and enormous journey that would be made in the system itself, because regardless of the collective that we are talking about, they have exactly the same rights to receive fair, reasonable and fair treatment for this particular labour problem. And, in any case, what we think is necessary is to regulate this situation in some way, which is what these people came to claim when they appeared, because we are concerned, because it responds to problems of precariousness and lack of stability, because it is a situation of anguish and permanent precariousness, of not knowing how long this situation will last, which in some cases I believe would add up to 27 years in this situation. There have been other cases of collectives with unique characteristics that have ultimately been given a relatively dignified way out, and I hope that with the commitment of all of us we can continue to follow the same path. Nothing more, and thank you very much. lehendakariak Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours. Far in the Olargue We, from our group, since we first had a meeting with those women from the Board of Education which afterwards came to appear, saw clearly that, in front of our collective meeting, we were present in front of our collective meeting, and in front of such collectives, we saw a solution which was received in the law of public employment in the law of this legislature, 19.20, and that by passing regulations, these words might greatly facilitate the establishment of Euskion and its autonomous organizations (intelligent) namely, that the function of the State must always be supported by the principle of equality, and the principle of equality. Then, a little bit, we heard it all when we set this up on the committee. Even those who came to the scene didn't like it too much when they came out of the meeting we had with us and had nothing else. Another bill of law stood before the slowness of the law of public employment, which was said to require other settlements, and it seemed almost as if we were selling smoke, but we find that they were not there two weeks later, and that we were correcting this activity in the Eulegal Council of the Public Function, because these transitory regulations have been admitted into the bill of legislation in 19 and 20. And this now leads the way to a solution to the collective workers of this kind; and by the way, fortunately, it also opens the way of the agreements. We don't want merit. Let others take it. Let this be a good bargain, as well as an agreement in the Basque Council, and a treaty which we have also signed on this parliament. I don't see or feel capable of telling you how and what terms this is to be treated, for here, a little, Machado's poem will prevail, do you? ("Caminante, no hy away, s hace campo al force"). And here too, you have to walk. I am not going to say what this means must be, how broad it must be, or how broad it must be, but I have my full confidence in those who have come to the treaty at the Basque Council, and in the members and members of the community who will come to the legislature. What pleases me is that we have found the way from the agreement, and I am glad that this may be of service to the men of the casuistics we have seen, in this case, as is said in many respects, especially when they have a woman's face, and when it is perceived that in any other case there may be people who are very difficult to understand. That's why, thank you. Congratulations to all of you and just thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mr. Faraway. In answer time, yes, Mrs. De Bengoechea, representative of Basque Popular. Your word. de begorechea extrade Mr. Hernandez, do you know what the difference is between you and us? That we don't have ghosts about you and you need to have a ghost about us, because that gives you as a certain epic. Look, if you want to find someone who has a ghost against you, say, "Oh, my God, the communists are coming!", go find him somewhere else. We don't have ghosts with you; not like you, who do have ghosts with us. Then something else. Let's see. Bringing this here is not an act of charity, nor is it an act of "Oh, what a pity it is!". No, no, Why did we bring him here? Because, look, there is – I believe – in many parliamentarians – perhaps not so, but I have noticed it – a real confusion between workers and officials. Fixing the problem of the interinity of officials is going to be a mess, but a big mess, and it is going to be a puddle where the Basque Government is going to have to get involved. But it's going to be very hard to solve. We have brought this here because they are employed by the Administration; then, there is much more chance of solving it. And, Mrs. Ubera, I know that what you have said is reasonable, and whatever. But, let's see, we can't mix civil servants with workers. We can't do that, because the officials' thing is going to be one thing to see how it goes. But we are going to solve this particular problem. And you, with everything you have explained to me that needs to be done, put me in the solution of this problem and that of the officials and other situations ad graecas. So, let us solve this particular problem and let us leave the problem of public service and the problem of civil servants to be addressed by the Basque Government. Because, believe me, whether you are bullies or anti-taurinos, torturing the problem of the interinity of the officials is going to be a big mess. And the only thing I ask – and in that I join you – is that we are not in fifteen years, again, thinking about how we are going to solve the problem of interinity. Every two years there has to be OPE, and that way we won't be in the problem we're in right now. That, probably, we, then, as we have always done in this country, when they are workers' things, join together. I want to remember the Ikastolas, I want to remember so many others. But I don't know how it's gonna end. And it's a puddle we're not getting into. Now, in the pool of labor contractors, we think it's much simpler. These people passed a test to get in. Well, then, let's do this, because the Basque Government would not allow any company to have workers for 27 years on a temporary basis. So, let's set an example, let's fix it. And the civil servants, and the civil service and all that, then, slowly. Slow down, 'cause it's gonna take time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u111	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengoechea. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u112	No, very brief. Just to answer Mrs. De Bengoechea, because I don't have any ghosts on you. You're not my ghost. I know I'm not your ghost either, but if you go out here and make statements that I don't share, you'll understand that I go out and say I don't share them. And I think that even if we agree on the objective of what you have brought to this House, in my opinion – yours, you have already expressed it, as I know it is not coincidental with mine – that has nothing to do with leaving ideology aside and focusing on concrete things. For me, these are two things that are very, very linked. And I, of course, don't know who you meant. Of course, I do not consider that you bring the initiative here on a matter of charity or anything like that; of course, I have not said any of that. Because, if not, I'd be saying it about our own group. Because I have started my previous speech by saying that we share the objectives that you had with this initiative. What I have said, because you have spoken about ideologies, is that, in my opinion, when you make a defense of this specific issue – the one you have brought to the House today – that for us is far from what you have historically defended in labour policies, in the whole state and also here in Basque. And that's our opinion. And it's no ghost. It is no ghost, because some of the reforms that you have promoted in the field of work have much to do with expanding the capacity that there is – in this case, in private companies – in the temporality, although today we are talking about the public administration. That is why I say to you that in my opinion it does not correspond to the policies that your party has defended historically. And I believe that behind all political positions there is ideology. And I'm absolutely convinced of that. But I am glad that today we agree on something objective and we have also agreed on something that is usually more difficult, in the specific wording. But I believe that, now, the fundamental part – and in that I do agree with you – will have to be done by the government. And, in our view, this specific problem that you have brought to the House today is the result, as I said earlier, of policies, not only of the current government; of all the current governments. And we must all take it for granted, eh?, that my political organization was also part of a government in this Autonomous Community, but each in its own degree of responsibility. And we think that the problem of temporality, and temporality in the Basque public administration, is a very, very big problem, which is determined because the structure has been sought to be so. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u113	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u114	I wasn't going to take part in this second shift. Mrs. Bengochea, look, I don't know what the Greeks do and what they do. I'm the only one who knows what I've done, what our team did, you and everybody, okay? Then often, before you come down here, think twice what you have to say and what you don't. And sometimes it's better to keep your mouth shut. It's better. Our team, with all its deficiencies, has put initiative on the table. Because, as Mr. Hernandez has said, the problem is serious. The temporary period of public employment in the public system is serious, and it is very serious. And the case was not intended for a political decision. And because of this political decision, there has been a policy of contraction, or there have been some OPEaks, there have been laws (the rate of retrogression), there has been a policy of expense... But when he wanted to, he negotiated with the edge. And these laws have been passed, and have not been obstacles. In other cases (in cases, machines and cooks) there has been no opposition from 2001. Yeah? And when I got down here, I talked about all the staff of public employment. All of them. All categories, all profiles. At least we've tried to bring in the initiative and make suggestions about the feminized collectives, and you've never protected them, you've been looking away from them. Then to teach lessons here today seems to me to be of no use to me, right? And in such cases, one must go out with a little humility. And last week we brought in a legal proposal, which was very useful, even for educational cooks and washing machines, and you refused. And we could already be working on that subject. And perhaps our bill of law would not have been appropriate, it would have been defective, but among all the rest, as the distant one said, we might have agreed to make the way, the content we might have changed, but it is not to be wished; for here, it seems to be agreed, rather than to confirm the propositions which it presents, instead of default or purpose. What about losers? Well, people and people. And in this case, workers working on the public system. So today has been a pleasure to me, but it seems to me that to say what is not, what is not, and what is left to be said, must sometimes be thought twice, considering what every one does, and what he contributes to these matters.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Does Mr. Pastor have a word to say? No. Far away, gentlemen... Not even. After discussion, we'll vote for the Basque Popula, Euskal Socialists, together with Podemos, EH Collect and the EUski Jeltarians. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters 73; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-28.u116	So we unanimously accept the half-rational correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and forty-one.
