ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "The General of the Bills of the Euberts of the Year, made to the Chief of Economics, and Sub-Separation of the Subjugates, "About Kyak." Your word is broad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. We know that small cooperations in the commercial business, which are considered to be an strategic agency for Euscadi, are a part of the strategy of this government, a part of the growth, international growth, and their establishment. In the Industrial Plan, funk is described as an extra, stable, commitment to the future and future projects, which will work with the other members, and is defined as an agent who will encourage the sector. This government, taking advantage of its several tools, is beginning to take place in the strategic companies. In 2018, he got the 11th,24th part of the CAF company, a Basque company working for the international level, in his sector, in the industry, the shares of a company that is a head. With the specific aim of ensuring the growth and rooting of Basque companies with technological potential and presence in global markets. In October 2019, we just heard that it got 7% of the Caku company, a $6,6 million investment. We have a company of eupscals created in the '50s, local, ours in growth, a company that creates jobs, and has an extra interest in the industrial sector of euscal foods. His shares are now in the hands of Lleter Nostra, Laboral Ark, Kaiku, and Emmi the Swiss Building and Loan. Along with the prediction of the stock of Kaiku's purchase, we've heard that you've visited Emmi's residence with your team, which is the main stock group of the Cakus. Emmi is a farmer's cooperative and is the most important Swiss dairy processing company. It is an international reference. The non-Swiss companies participating in the group produce their products, usually with high added value, in their own countries, betting on products kilometre zero. Through Kaiku and its innovation, in Euskadi we guarantee and bet on quality dairy products and kilometre zero. The dairy sector, with a high economic contribution, is a young sector and with a high level of structuring. It is a strategic sector that contributes fundamentally to the maintenance of the rural areas of Euskadi. But we know that it is a very sensitive sector to Community policies. With the different funds that you have or participate in, it follows that the small association of the Basque firms and the companies with future projects is part of the strategy of helping you to develop and strengthen you. Chief Tapia department, you're looking at yourself as an important purchase of 7,31 shares from the Caku company, because the milk merchant is a strategic sector for the tired area. We'd like to know what this operation contributes to the Basque milk industry and milk shops. And to help represion and strengthen, in various sectors, in enterprise leaders of the strategic or sector, which you intend to continue to collect small cooperations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. That's right, Mrs. Wide. After a co-worker and reflection between the Ogal Department and the Department of Economics, we made up our minds to take part of the Caku Corporation. Having made up our minds, we ought to decide which of the grounds, and on such a subject as this, was the best instrument and means. It was given to hear about the meeting last Tuesday, the New Year's Operation was over, the operation of the New Year's Partion, and it was made from the Basque Institute, in addition to the fact that, as the head of the ΕnglidePed below mentioned, it was possible, in the future, to place the Funsket fully operational, to pass there because of the influence of that operation. It has therefore been decided to take the participation of 7.31% of Kaiku Food Corporation for the value you said of 6.6 million euros, being the company Kaiku Food Corporation the matrix of the Kaiku Group, where one of the most relevant participants is the Swiss cooperative Emmi that has 73,47 % of the participation. Therefore, we understand the purchase of that 7.3%, knowing that it is a company that is really relevant to the country and that it is also a sector, that of food, where we are having really interesting results and that it can be an important niche of opportunity. But why is it relevant, besides being a relevant niche of action? Because Emmi is a top-level technology partner that allows Kaiku to be among the best companies in the food sector and to have a truly relevant future. And besides, as you said yourself, because it affects the milk merchant. At the present day, when the milk doctor is fully absorbed in Europe and when there are problems, the Basque sector is somehow structured, and the part is collected through Cairo, part of that milk, and it's guaranteed to be cattlemen, united to an important company. If we also think that we have to structure the territory, and that we must have a balanced territory, the weary sector must be the future, and if we connect that future with such an important company, we guarantee both of these matters. That's how it is now and so we want it to be in the future, but not just for this, but for guaranteeing the future of the company we don't want to be a part of what we're taking away during time, but we'll be able to guarantee it through time. Like you said, CAF. And, of course, this fund is taking part in the pursuit of the calling, some kind of permanent or permanent, at least at first, in the most important sectors, in those which encourage internationalization. And as the chief physician said, besides that, this year's Prejugations have been delivered, we've raised that funds and we propose to secure the future of that funds in some way with 65 million others. So, two of these operations are done, but if you can do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the members of the legislatures of the Maddalen Irina Presidency to the President, concerning the democratic solution of political conflicts." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u5	Good morning, Madam President. Egun where we're supposed to be. Egun on, Urkullu yellow. I had an interesting conversation with Jordi Turull once. It's a bit crude to think about now that he's in prison. It's not the first time I know a guy I know. We know what that is. And it's also crude to me that he was the representative of a government, which is... I don't know, for instance, if the Rukek imprisoned Mr. Erkoa, I'd be rude as a citizen of euskal, but also as a citizen of Europe. Sometimes Spain makes us lose our perspective. I remember then Turul told me that we had a corpuse to create a state. I gave him reason because I believe that tomorrow we could be an independent state, because we have means and ability to do so. But I told him that we lacked the body, but that we lacked their souls. Thankfully, but we saw that soul on Saturday at Donostian. The political and unional majority of Basques, even your party, showed that soul. The thousands of people who had passed over showed this soul of solidarity, of democratic liberty, of civil and political rights, contrary to repression. That's what this town feels and wants. Today, this soul will join with other peoples. In Barcelona, in about an hour, we will sign the united expression by different parties. My question is, Mr President, what does your soul say? We know what your body says, but how does your heart feel? Does he share the soul of this people?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u7	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen. I have a full soul with the process of organisation starting 40 years ago. In this process of organisation we have a long course, not only the soul but also the mind and the mind, to continue the process of organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u9	You have all these, but in Donostania there were two parties missing, those who deny both the civil and political rights of this country and Catalonia, one of them is yours. So you agree with them? At the demonstration there were two parties missing, those that deny the civil and political rights of both Catalonia and Euskal Herria, one of them is his partner. Do you share your position? 15 days ago, I was in Scotland at SNP's political conference. I was there when the Prime Minister of Scotland, Sturgeon, announced the second referendum. But the most amazing thing was that nothing happened. Nothing happened. Westminster did not threaten them with removing their jurisdictions. Of course they'll press and negotiate, but they won't put political representatives in prison. They'll put in these drugs like five years ago, and they'll vote. You lose or you win and you accept. To vote, to put a paper into a boat, because it's not a crime. Democracy is not a crime. Is that to be explained? Great Britain is perhaps not the most exemplary democracy in the world, but it is a democracy. Not Spain. The day after Franco's death, fascists didn't get up the Democrats, as we saw yesterday. Because Spain has kept political prisoners and still has them. Mr. Urkullu, you're from the world "Euskadi Basque Country." How do you explain that in the world? How do you explain that in Europe your partner is the kind who put them in prison by political representatives? And they would do the same if we followed the road to Catalan. How do you explain that in Europe? How does it appear that there are no democracies here?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Useless discussions. If there's no democracy, I don't know why the contest is part of the election. Look, the main question is whether I agree with certain principles. And do not doubt, Mrs. Aguirre, concerning the principles mentioned in your question, that is to say, the defence of solidarity, of democratic freedom, of civil and political rights, and the political solution of what is democraticly expressed by citizens. I agree. And I'll tell you more, I've always agreed with these principles. In fact, I repeat, these principles are collected and secured in the State of Guernica, which now fills 40 years, and we must now accept and update these principles here in this legislature. This is where we must establish the field-page of the country, which is our concern for the rest of us in the presence of the euscal society. You mention Scotland, you might mention Venezuela, for instance, what's going on in Venezuela. Well, I don't know. You have brought Catalonia here as a reason, and I have given her some respect for the way to Catalonia. Knowing the sentence of the trial, I declared that I understood the sadness, frustration, and despair of a great part of the society of Catalonia. I gave my closeness and solidarity to those who were imprisoned and condemned. I added that I'm sure they never wanted to hurt anybody. I can see that there's more to it than that. Our responsibility demands something else. We did that too. I have prolonged the call of calmness, and require perspective and intelligence, soul, and political mind, to act in order to find a political solution. What are many and many representatives of Catalonia doing? Planing interviews and negotiation. There is no other alternative. I have proposed a table for political negotiations with the perspectives of the state, which is the question of the state, accepting the growth of the country, and the internal multiplicity of each country. And I'll do everything I can for the effeminate conversation. That may, I think, be the most effective alternative. As far as the Basque Road is concerned, we have a chance to be exemplary. It's a great thing what happened in Donostian, but we have to do what we have to do here. We must here make an effort to approach and agree. I think we're on time to expand the Euskal road and strengthen the internal agreement, and I'm asking you too. So let's do that road here. I do not think there is a better alternative than an effort to widen the Basque track, agree here and widen that agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, made together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos team to the president, about the impacts of political instability. " Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u13	Good morning, Mr. President. The political state is governed by unequal differences in different degrees, and the pre-eminency of the preventives of the oppositions of the citizens is confirmed. What do you think the impacts of this uncertainty on Euskadi can be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martinez, I have not hidden the impacts, I have already been referring to them, nor have I hidden my concern. In the general policy debate, in particular, I presented the scenario of the impact of instability in Euskadi, with an impact on basic issues: difficulties in business, precarious employment and wage gap, levels of poverty and social inequality, postponement of investment and decrease in exports, affection for domestic consumption and trade, territorial gap... Therefore, Mr Martínez, I believe that I have also been raising these shadows that could be identified on Euskadi because of the incidence of what is also happening on a global level. I didn't hide the impact. However, it is up to us to offer solutions and I believe that the Basque Government is also offering solutions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u17	President. The best way to ensure that Euskadi is not affected, or to a lesser extent, by the turbulence in which the world is being involved is to implement policies that, on the one hand, allow us to move towards a robust economic model in line with the ecological and technological demands of the twenty-first century; but also that this new model offers opportunities and well-being to citizens. The question is: Are your government's efforts enough on this road? Are your policies going the right way? In the end, we see the headlines and analyses every week around the distillation, economic data revisions, and even bad preventions for industry. This week we saw in the press that it is mainly automotive and oil that have slowed exports. It is clear that the transition in these two sectors is urgently needed for the Basque economy. But it does not seem urgent in their budgets, because in the items advanced on Tuesday, under the name of sustainable Euskadi, there is no single specific item for industry or employment that meets the criteria of climate emergency that his Government recognized and declared in summer. Protecting our businesses from the crisis is not just rescuing them, it is preparing them for the challenges of the future. And you have often said that the best method of facing a crisis is to create employment. I wouldn't say that you've finally achieved this goal, to get over the prevision of 2,8%, is very fair, and then again if the same revision of growth is made or a new revision, or if we have a harder stroke, we can be back above 10 percent. The trends are not good, and yesterday the EPA confirmed that Euskadi is the Autonomous Community with the greatest destruction of employment. We have more unemployed people than in 2008 and, above all, in an unprecedented precarious situation. The reality is clumsy, these are the numbers we play with by 2020 and to which the Budgets have to respond. Unemployment and precariousness translate into the level of income, and let me also bring here the data published yesterday by Eustat, which perfectly illustrate the two-speed Euskadi that will have to face a possible economic crisis. 60% of our population has over 21,000 euros, average rent, 32% does not reach half the average income, half the average income, half the 10,500 euros, and then the other side of the coin, 11% collects the double rent average, more than 40,000 euros. Mr Lehendakari, allow me to insist on this point. How will your Government protect families, youth and businesses from the consequences of the upcoming economic crisis next year? Beyond the social investment that your Government is often showing, you should think about how useful these investments are to leave no one behind. We therefore insist that, despite and because of the political and economic uncertainty that surrounds us, you put in place courageous, innovative policies that conform a shield to the crisis, but also that it no longer takes time for the changes of silence that Euskadi needs to face the challenges of the twenty-first century. We're not just talking about big headlines, we're talking about ending the two-speed Euskadi...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u18	Thank you, thank you. Your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martínez, I don't know how you read headlines or certain references, if you read them also by comparing them in relation to quarterly data, interannual data... I don't know how you interpret the headlines. But in any case, it would also be good if you would attend to what the voices of the people involved in the various sectors you mentioned, or, in any case, also refer to the indicators of European studies that say that Euskadi is the most cohesive society, or the most cohesive region, for example, isn't it? I didn't hide the impact on Euskadi. Nor do I want to be alarmist, and I have said before that it is up to us to offer solutions. For example, it refers to a global context, we have offered the vision of the future of Europe, which we brought last year, and it makes proposals in the fields of social, competitive, open, solidarity or sustainable Europe, which also have an impact on what the future might be for Euskadi. We are at a time when we can put these proposals into effect in the Budgets, which we have also recorded here today in Parliament, and they are in that direction. I want you to keep talking to me. Our commitment is to continue to move on in the niceties of health, education, and social life, and that priority is in the budget at three out of four dollars. At the same time, we must continue to increase euscal economy and to help produce employment, to strengthen economic politics, to fix industry and export, to reduce unemployment from 10%. The object of the former is the engagement against the change of climate, or the precursors in the efficient equality of women and men, to give another step in the enduring human development. Mr Martínez, the risks of uncertainty are certain, as are the opportunities for a constructive response offered by, for example, the draft General Budgets Act for the coming year. Our will is to seize this opportunity. It would also be useful to refer to the data that EPA and PRA provide for 9.2% of unemployment in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. But, in any case, we have put forward a social budget that prioritizes essential services and focuses on the people who need it; a proposal that supports cross-cutting equality between women and men, with actions valued at 1.2 billion; or that supports the fight against climate change, with an environmental and economic approach, with 510 million; or that bets on investment, with more than EUR 1 billion, and innovation, with 486 million. Our goal is to create more and better jobs: 15,300 jobs this year and 11,500 next year. We will fulfil the commitment to encourage 58,000 jobs in this legislature. I believe that we have sufficient grounds for shared work also on the basis of the Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Mymeal, by Lorenzo Euscal Social Socialists, made to the Chief Environmental Plantion, and Housing Department, about the balance of the Environment, Landal Planet, and Housing Department on the development of the Housing Law." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u21	Thank you, ma'am. Today, October 25, Guernica, is 40 years old. 40 strong and healthy years. The treaty between the different ones has been the best tool we ever had to develop the future, the basis of our social Euskade, the log of our well-being, the support of Euskade. Today, 25 October, the Gernika Statute is 40 years old. A Statute that has made it possible for Euskadi today to be the political expression of the voluntary union of Basques who think and feel different. Because in essence, that is the Statute of Gernika, a pact between different people who respect each other's differences and solve our problems with the tools provided by that Statute, which is the highest expression of our self-government. Euskadi was never as much as with the Statute of Gernika, a Statute that means respect for our singularity, as it must also symbolize respect and coexistence between different. It is the door that opens us to the possibility of conquering new rights, own, based on our competence recognized by the State and collected by the Statute itself. A good example of this is the Housing Act, which continues to be a pact also between different people, which made it possible for Euskadi to have a new pioneering law in the State. A law that was born with a vocation to make a qualitative leap, as a guarantee of a quality of life worthy for all Basque citizens. A housing law that, like other rights, allows to build a society between equals; a society of the future, of opportunities; a society that protects the weakest, solidarity, that works so that no one stays behind. During all these years we have been able to build a system of protection, a system at the service of Basque citizenship, which has also found in these services the basis of a welfare state to be proud of. That is why we want to continue to make progress in our self-government, in improving and modernizing our Statute, in the Statute of all, as we have done, for example, through the Housing Act. A Statute that allows us to continue with the modernization of Euskadi, that allows us to improve our services – as I said – to expand our system of protection and to move towards a more egalitarian society; that allows us to incorporate the rights conquered, such as this Housing Act, and to lay the basis for incorporating the rights that are to be conquered; that it be a pact between different, between different who unite above their way of feeling Basque, of conceiving our political identity. A statute that unites and does not divide. That is why it is important that we continue to develop our laws as the basis on which this Euskadi of the future is based. While some have wanted for years to give up the Statute – and their refusal to celebrate that day proves it – laws such as the Housing Act show that the real key to the well-being of the Basques, the improvement of our quality of life, the advancement of our rights, lies not in trying to overcome legality, but in trying to take full advantage of it, in expressing that self-government to the maximum, in taking out all its potentials and putting them at the service of the citizenry. Today we have the most advanced housing law in Spain, because the socialists are committed to providing the Basque Government with a useful and transformative tool to guarantee the right of people to have a decent home, and the data show that it was a good thing. This is making a country, this is real patriotism. Therefore, I ask you, what is the balance that makes of the development of the Housing Act at the age of four? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u22	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, indeed, I agree with you that the Statute of Autonomy is much more than a list of competences. It is a project of coexistence that allows us to build rights and public services for Basque citizens and it is a pride for me, as I assumed 10 years ago, to be part of a Government that exists precisely thanks to that Statute. And, as a socialist, I am proud that my party has participated in each and every one of the milestones that have allowed us to build the social and plural Euskadi that we enjoy today. Forty years ago the Basques voted to take responsibility for the Euskadi we wanted. With this statutory framework one model or another could have been designed, but we chose to deploy the social state provided for in the Constitution to our Community. When we talk about the Basque Agenda, it is often associated with more political content, and I like to link it more to social content. I prefer the Basque Social Agenda, which has allowed us to create a welfare network, whereby all people – whoever they are and who they think they think they think they are – are treated equally in health centres, in schools, in social services. And this thanks to an instrument of self-government, such as the Economic Concert, which allows us to manage 94 out of every 100 euros that we collect and have a fiscal policy that has advanced in progressivity and equity. So the important thing, as I said at the beginning, was not just the list of competencies but how we wanted to exercise them, and we also wanted to do it by fleeing conflict and confrontation. Whether there are differences, different visions of dealing with the problem is a connatural thing to democracy. What is required in a democratic system is to channel these differences through dialogue, respect and also subjection to the rules. And the Housing Act, to which you referred, is a good example of that Basque Social Agenda and of those patterns of action. It is an advanced law, but it was made by treading firm and solid ground, and also seeking the greatest consensus. It is true that we did not start from scratch either in soil policies or in public housing policies. As a result, 105,000 protected housing units have been built since 1983, one third of which have been promoted by the Basque Government. Although much remains to be done, it is true that in these four years since the passing of the law we have made much progress. For starters, no one questions this law, no party, no court. Today, when we have recognized access to housing as a right, more than 50,000 families receive in Euskadi coverage from their various public administrations, either through public housing or through an economic benefit to pay part of the rental price. As far as the legislature is concerned, more than 5,200 applications for a subjective right to housing have been granted. The rental park protected after the stopover that caused the crisis, already surrounds the 23,000 floors if they are added to those of the municipalities to the 14,000 that we manage from the Government. I believe, in conclusion, that the Housing Act is a good example of what the Statute has meant and the way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u24	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The fifth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, made to the president of judicial judgments." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Last week you were attacking the Supreme Court's ruling, also coming from the previous week from attacking a Constitutional Court ruling that guaranteed the national scholarship system. And I understand that you have the right, even if it is the lehendakari, to disagree with the judgments of the courts, but I also believe that you have the obligation – and this is what I ask you, and I do not know what you think – to do pedagogy on how a rule of law works, that there are laws that have to be complied with and some courts that have to apply them. The epithets were very hard, you said that the sentence was "nefarious" and that the process had been a "disproposal", epithets that are not usual in your person, which usually use a moderate tone. I sincerely believe that this takes him away from the institutional role he has to play and from the necessary pedagogy on the existence of laws, obligations and compliance, and that it is the courts that have to apply the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President of answer is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I have been very attentive to your intervention. I haven't noticed any questions in it. In any case, Mr Alonso, without a doubt, I think your question is rhetorical because you know the answer well. Without a doubt, all court judgements deserve respect. Politics, democracy and institutions also deserve respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u29	Well, if you ask questions, I'll ask you a few questions. Don't leave without being questioned here this morning. I ask you, is the nationalism that you defend the same nationalism as that of the independenceists of Catalonia? When you assume the concepts, the ideas you just assumed in Mrs Agirre's question, are you taking sides? Why do you take sides, Mr. Lehendakari? Because they're nationalists? Are nationalists always right? Are we assuming the mental field that we are being approached? Here the rule of law is called repressive and you accept it and you take sides? Here at "I impose my will above the law" is it called democracy? Is it stated here that there are enemies who are apparently those who violate and do not respect civil and political rights – and Mrs Agirre has said this here today by referring to the People's Party and the Socialist Party? Do you share that statement? Civil and political rights were being shot here, Mrs Agirre, and you still don't condemn him. That's what there was. We must be careful, we cannot follow that path of Catalonia. Your nationalism cannot be the nationalism that is now in Catalonia, and I am deeply concerned that you want to take sides. If you were the only hope that remained, your party was in a demonstration in San Sebastian, assuming point by point the manifesto that put up the platform Gure Esku Dago, which wants to take us to that path of Catalonia. And you have reiterated in this rostrum, when I have insistently asked you, that you were going to maintain a position of moderation, that you were going to maintain a position of equanimity. And I am concerned that you are taking sides with a certain sector in Catalonia that is in contravention of the laws and that breaks the coexistence of that Community and divides it. Today, in fact, 40 years of the Statute of Gernika are being fulfilled and we are all appreciating what it has meant for Basque society. But the Statute, which is our meeting point – because we are different but we have a meeting point, something that unites us – is also our guarantee. The Statute protects us, sovereignism is chaos, Mr Lehendakari, and we are seeing it in Catalonia. The Statute is security, the guarantee that we live together, we must protect it, not move from there. The Statute is not a point of departure towards a path of breaking or overcoming laws or the Constitution. And that's why I'm very concerned about the attitude you're holding in relation to Catalonia. I don't think so. I ask you to be more involved in teaching the importance of law enforcement and aligning yourself with democracy. There have been people there who have risen up against the law, against the state, and who have put coexistence at risk. There are some figures there that every day are causing discomfort and anxiety to the citizens of Catalonia There's something breaking down. And our way, it is not the way of rupture, it is the way of union that guarantee us these 40 years of Statute Mr. lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr Alonso, I think we have a public responsibility in our actions and statements. And I therefore believe that there should be no shadow of doubt about ethical and democratic principles and values that are not in doubt. And I assure you that I will not do so, not even in relation to what may be the ideological option of the People's Party, out of responsibility and out of respect. Look, I don't just understand your commitment. My position has always been the firm rejection, condemnation of violence, because it is radically incompatible with a dialogue solution, with coexistence and with the respect that human rights deserve. Throughout my political, institutional and personal career I have condemned violence, it is an intimate conviction. In relation to Catalonia, I would say that we have done more than condemn violence. We have made contributions and proposed exits without transferring respect to people, parties or institutions, Mr Alonso. We have stated that the political and judicial process, the political and judicial process, has been a waste and that its outcome has been disastrous. Not the sentence, I have not said this about the sentence, but about the trial and outcome, which has been harmful. I said that the judicialization of politics only leads, as in this case, to negative results. A cross-cutting strategy that bets on dialogue and agreement is essential, because its absence has brought us to this point, and it is not just a Catalan problem, it is a problem of the territorial structure of the State. We cannot fit different national realities into the same uniforming model, it has been shown that it does not work, Mr Alonso. There is a need for a political negotiating table that assumes internal pluralities in the State and addresses this issue with discretion, with time, with a high level of focus. It is necessary, Mr Alonso, to channel the solution towards transactional dialogue, transactional dialogue, pact and coexistence. Mr. Alonso, we disapprove of violence, but with that we have to bet on political conversation. It is necessary to facilitate solutions by assuming the nationality of the State, and making proposals for a new model. This must be done with long-term vision and with will, avoiding the constant election atmosphere. The conflict in Catalonia, Mr Alonso, and the territorial question in the State are not resolved by authoritarian stridencies, nor by over-activated determinations of electoral intention. There is a need for a minimum of responsibility, respect for ideological choices, also that I can defend, as I do with yours, a minimum of respect, dialogue and will. And I therefore invite you, Mr Alonso, you and your party, to join in this direction, to help guide a dialogue solution, the only one that can draw a solution horizon and not with resources to what a majority in Parliament can decide, as is the case with the Catalan Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask you, Martíni was made together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president, about working in the Palestinian lands occupied by the State of Israel." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u33	Yes, good morning. What do you think of the work of CAF in the territories occupied by Israel on Palestinian territory?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u34	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u35	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Martínez, when euskal comes to the level of the world in general, it has to be competitive, and it suffers tremendous pressures, and the geopoliptic tensions, although they do not come from, still affect our corporations. In this case, we're talking about a litigation, a public litigation that has been won by a Dutch firm in the Highland. We're talking about the Jerusal tram. In this case, we're talking about CAF, and this company is a top-pointed nation-level company, it's competitive, and it creates employment, and a lot of it. It's one of the tractors of our tractor companies that, in a way, even in our company firm, give jobs to small companies around it. In any case, in the mouth of its own president, it was argued that the Jerusalem tram project has carried out a prior analysis of legality and ethics. It is a common practice in each and every international project in which it participates. The result has been that these reports have confirmed the full compliance of CAF with international law and human rights principles. We are referring to a multi-localized company, with more than 100 years of trajectory and in which, of course, one of the key aspects now and before also, but now more than ever, are human rights and professional ethics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u37	Señora Tapia. Of course, CAF is one of the main companies in our country and is a tractor for both the economy and employment. And everyone, surely, we have felt pride when, being in another city of the world, we see and ride a CAF train. But what will happen when the Jerusalem tram is built? It will connect Palestinian territories illegally occupied by Israel. What are we gonna feel? What will you feel after saying these words? We asked your Government about this issue and it told us that it had no competence. But I ask you again for your opinion, not for the government's competence or anything like it, for your opinion and whether you are going to work with the company to withdraw from that project, because, in case there is little, we have about 1% or more of CAF's shares. And no. Even with that percentage I don't want to be me, nor does my group want to be an accomplice – and I think most Basques don't want to be an accomplice – to this illegal work either. UNRWA director said there were land confiscations, demolitions of homes and evictions of Palestinians who have lived there for decades to build these settlements, which will now be connected by a tram made in Basque Country What's the point, Mr. Lehendakari, then to fund UNRWA if we collaborate with the problems that it then seeks to alleviate? We have voted unanimously in this Parliament against Israel's abuses. Let's be consistent. Be consistent and do not make us complicit in these human rights violations. And yes, they are violations of international law. The Fourth Geneva Convention provides that "Occupying power cannot deport or transfer people to the occupied territory", prohibits the destruction of private property and public property in territories under occupation. It violates UN Security Council Resolution 2334, which states that these settlements are not legally valid and constitute a flagrant violation of international law. They also violate the view of the International Court of Justice, which states are said to have an obligation not to recognize the illegal situation resulting from the construction of these settlements, and to have an obligation not to provide assistance or assistance in maintaining them. The United Nations guiding principles of business and human rights, as mentioned by the Government, are also along the same lines. And the European Union itself also affirms the legal problems that will arise for companies if they collaborate in this type of settlement that violates – the words of the European Union – international law. Moreover, if CAF, unfortunately, persists in continuing its participation – it will not be Elkarrekin Podemos who will do so – it will be the United Nations itself, at its next assembly, that will incorporate it into a blacklist of multinational companies that violate international law. I don't want that for either CAF or any company in the Basque Country, so I'm asking you if the Basque Government is going to work with CAF to get it out of that project. Because there are companies, like Bombardier, Siemens, Alstom, that you know better than I, that have withdrawn from that project precisely because it is a project that violates international law. I believe that if the opinion of this Basque Government is not changing from what might appear to be a tramway at first glance, we have a deep problem of ethics and policy coherence; because by commitment to human rights, by coherence with sustainable human development, by defending employment, by defending CAF and CAF workers, we have to stop this disaster, we have to stop this illegality. And they have to do their part. And I ask you, are you going to do it? They're gonna do it? Because in this Parliament, from the Basque Country, we have solidarity countless times with the Palestinian people. All these statements are of no use if we then cooperate, by action or omission, with the occupation of Israel.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u38	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u39	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I told you in my first speech, Mr Martínez. We are faced with a firm that is clearly and unequivocally committed to sustainable development, which meets the objectives of sustainable development. And you are well aware that within these objectives of sustainable development is, of course, responding to the challenges of climate change, something that a company, precisely in the manufacture of electrical transport materials, clearly fulfils; the care of the environment and natural resources, therefore, does; as well as ethics and transparency, human rights or equality. We are therefore working with many companies and business associations in the implementation and incorporation of sustainable development goals into all actions, both in the State and in international actions, and CAF is one of the companies that is meeting them. But, of course, before the marked scenarios, with very different geopolitical realities, very complex, even clearly reprehensible – as you mentioned – it is not a receipt, in our opinion, to demand only one business agent or several who are presidents or political diplomacy itself is not able to resolve. Therefore, our job as the Basque Government is to meet and enforce sustainable development goals, and to work for the productive fabric of Euskadi, including CAF, to do so, and they are doing so. Therefore, in the same sense we will continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "Appeal, made of Eva Lopez de Laiyabe de Maturuna EH Collectors in the United States to the head of Economics and Sub-Separations, near the register of Section Rioja Alaves." Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u41	Good morning, thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Today Euskal Herria Bildu brings to this House a taboo theme, and I say a taboo theme because we are going to talk today about the Rioja Alavesa brand. And I'm going to say it's taboo because for 20 years we've been looking the other way, and it's not because Rioja Alavesa doesn't come out again and again on all the headlines. Practically, weekly, we have Rioja Alavesa in all the newspapers, in all the magazines. But that does not guarantee that we are talking and that we are not suffering a full-fledged attack on a region by the regulatory board, such as wanting to stay with the Rioja Alavesa brand; how it is to appropriate, usurp and steal, in short, the Rioja Alavesa brand, a brand that today is in the hands of the regulatory board. I would say that this is more than important news, especially because it marks, because it conditions the strategy for the future that we have thought or that I understand that the government has to think about the future for the Rioja-Alavesa region. And I'm gonna make some history. I say it's been 20 years, because since 1998 the Rioja Alavesa brand has been registered by the regulatory board in the registration of trademarks and patents in Spain. It's been 20 years. For 20 years the government has been looking the other way, it seems that nobody cared that the regulatory board owned the brand, and they have spent the 20 years in stand by mode But it has not only been targeted against a trademark, against a trademark, indeed. No, no, It has been attacked against a history, against a region historically, I would say that with necessity, with urgency to claim its name and, in this case, with a regulatory council that, in fact, has the headquarters in Logroño, owns today, and it is who can decide what we do or what we don't do with the Rioja Alavesa brand. During these 20 years nothing has happened, until a few years ago a group of wineries decides that it is already well, that the regulatory council and the Rioja denomination because it does not serve them, does not work, and that they have to start thinking about differentiate themselves, to be autonomous, because the quality of Álava, of the lavés wine surpasses the previous one, and that they are by the work of getting out of the Rioja Regulatory Council. At this time, in 2017, this movement, driven by the association ABRA de bodegas, poses a new denomination of origin. Actually, you can't do it. But the regulatory council, in pursuit of a good agreement, in pursuit of doing things right, tells them: "Well, come on, we're going to reach an agreement, because we're going to make the differentiation, we're going to pay attention to you." And in this year 2017, on August 10, 2017, an agreement is reached. An agreement in which, in fact, it is intended to increase differentiation, is given a little of what they were asking, thanks to all that movement, for that fight that has been going on for years. The day after that agreement, the regulatory board went to Europe and not only did not look at Spain, but decided that it would register the Rioja Alavesa brand already in Europe. I mean, he was slapping us on the shoulder, saying, yes, we're going to differentiate Rioja Alavesa, but the next day, "I'm going to Europe and I'm recording the mark and I'm saying that Rioja Alavesa is still mine, so no one moves, so no one gets out of the way." If you do it the next day, I understand that it's bad faith, I understand that it's a misconception and I understand that the Basque government at that time had to have said, "We've come this far." But no, we've come this far, no. No one's come this far. This is a political problem that has not been taken into account and that makes wet paper any... Today, too, we have heard about autonomy, we have talked about the Statute, we have talked about things that we are competent to do, but in this matter nothing is done, the regulatory council is allowed to own and lord of the Rioja Alavesa brand. The reactions to this attack? Zero. Basque Government and Foral de Álava do not move, they are silent. And who puts in a resource? For, in principle, the one to whom it would correspond. The Rioja Alavesa gang, in fact, makes an appeal, hires a private law firm and, well, for a defect in form is not accepted. We are already in 2019, when in August, at last, the resolution comes out definitive and the Rioja Alavesa brand is already owned by the Regulator Council of Rioja, owner and lord of all this. This brand is registered for different types of categories, as we can say that it registers for wines, drinks, bags, labels, packages... So it seems like it's nothing, but it's as simple as saying that when Baskonia or Alavés play and put on a big sign that puts Rioja Alavesa, it will be the regulatory council that has given him permission to put it, because otherwise, he doesn't put it. That's what I see as a risk film, simply because the regulatory board is going to tell us when or when not to buy a work of art, make T-shirts or put a big sign in the Baskonia. Not only is it a little risky, but I've tried to make a comparison and I've thought, well, what if the English Court decides that the Basque Country brand is theirs? I think the government would say "No, no, no, no! That the Basque Country brand is ours. How is El Corte Inglés going to steal it from us?" Hey, ladies and gentlemen, Rioja Alavesa is down there. It's true it's a little south. It is true that it is beautiful with Spain, but it is also true that it is a region to which we have to defend as the Basque Government that we are, because they deserve it and because they are fighting more than anyone just to look for that differentiation that they are not getting at the moment. I've got a lot of stuff here and I've brought a lot of items. But I'm gonna keep one. I am going to stay with one and it is true that it is not yours, Mrs Tapia, but it is Ramiro González, the deputy general of Álava, who said: "We need a strong mark for Rioja Alavesa". I can't agree more. Ramiro González is right when he says we need a strong mark, but if it's not ours. How do we want it to be strong? Or aren't we defending the same thing? Whose duty is it to protect, to monitor the interests of the Rioja Alavesa region? From the regulatory board? The government? From the Chamber of Deputies? From the gang itself? Of the people who live and work there every day? Then comes the harvest party and we all go there, in fact, from fair to fair. There we introduce ourselves, we talk about excellence, we talk about we are the best producing lavé wine, we talk about all that, but, while we have spent 20 years looking to the other corner, while we have seen how the regulatory council played dirty, very dirty, from one day to the next, trying to get on with something that doesn't belong to it. And while, when they usurp the brand, when they usurp, moreover, the identity would even say, when they play with them, when a commercial brand remains with a brand or with a name of a historical region is a serious film. I'd take a question, Mrs. Tapia: What are you going to do? You're gonna tell me "we're still working." I hope you don't tell me that. I hope they tell me, at last, "We've caught the bull by the horns, we're going to do, we're going to work, we're going to get that brand back and, of course, we're not going to leave it in the hands of the gang, which has enough, many things they have to do to devote themselves to hiring lawyers in order to defend themselves." And I'm gonna say another one. I think it's 45 million every 10 years, we'd talk about 4 million euros a year to the regulatory council. It is a great paradox that the regulatory council says, "Look, with the money you're giving me yourself I'm going to hire a law firm to defend me and to keep your brand." The feeling that I have, so at first glance, is that they are laughing at us and at us. Of course, it's a hit-and-run. It is not the only one, indeed, it is not the only one of the Rioja Denomination of Origin, of the regulatory council, it is not the only one. But he's the bloodiest. Because if you don't want someone to leave the designation of origin, come on, I can understand it because in the end, what's going to tell us... I have here a photo of these days when they gave prizes to the great wineries of Rioja, and in the photo that appears, the whole back, the third part, are alavese and the front part are the government of Rioja, the government of Logroño, all, but the prized wineries were all of Álava. What does that mean? Well, the Rioja Designation of Origin would have a problem if it weren't for the Alavese wines. I would have a problem because your bet is still for money, it's still economic, it's still in quantity, I wouldn't say it's still at low quality. But for all that we are seeing above the table, I would say that the Regulator Council of the Denomination of Origin Rioja, without the region Rioja Alavesa does not go anywhere and shows it to us by signing, saying that they are theirs. Without further ado, the question is clear, what will the government do to defend Rioja Alavesa from all the dinosaurs, all the ghosts, all the attacks she has on the table? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u42	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. My representative, Mrs. Tapia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u43	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Lady Lopez de Laroyabe, first of all, that we must begin work no more than that we already are. And I'll answer you straight away. Don't worry. We know what happens to that brand of Rioja Alavesa. As you have mentioned, it's a topic of 20 years ago, and it's a movement that took place 20 years ago. But it must be said that he was alone with the wines, in which case the mark is in the council, tied to the wines. What happened? You yourself have mentioned the movements which have now been made, and not only in Europe but in the State itself, but in other places than wine, have attempted to spread the property of that mark. And we're supposed to say that we've been trying to get all these people together, and that we're both working together, and that's what I'm talking about. We have always been prepared to work there in the State and in Europe, because we have clearly got the mark of Errix, Rioja Alavesa, that it is ours, that it belongs to the troops and that it is connected with its wines and other activity, so that it must be here. We do not see the conduct of the mark apart from the euscal operators, and in this sense we have done what we have done. The Basque administrations have successfully opposed the claim that the Board of Regulators of the DOC Rioja should register the Rioja Alavesa brand in the state, not only for the use of wine, but for other products in various fields beyond the wine product. This defence has been successfully resolved and has not been achieved in the State. And it only remains that of 20 years ago, that of the category called 33, which is that of wine. However, not content with that, it is true that the regulatory board is trying to register the trademark in Europe and, in view of this situation, we are again working together through the recruitment, indeed, by the Rioja Alavesa gang, of a law firm to make the appropriate defence in this area, at the European level. Why? Because it is incumbent on Álava and, in particular, the gang itself, which must carry out this defence, to carry out the appropriate actions. However, you have not done it alone, as you intend to point out in this case, but you have done it by the hands of the Foral Chamber and also of the Basque Government. In this case, the defense that has led the Rioja Alavesa gang has not prospered, indeed, and the record has now remained within DOC Rioja referring to wine and other performances as you have well mentioned. All this points to that since 2017 and 2018 the Rioja Designation of Origin, the regulatory council, has undertaken a series of actions with the aim of defending not only the brand that already had, but to extend it to other products, as you said, which are within categories 25 and 41. That refers, in addition to everything you have said, to clothing, footwear and other areas that are certainly somewhat strange when we consider them to be so. The Basque Government has remained critical and we have said this repeatedly and have worked together. However, once the European Union has received the refusal of the appeal filed by the Rioja Alavesa gang and this property has remained within the Rioja designation of origin of the regulatory board, it is up to us to use other tools. An attempt has been made to defend the position of the Rioja Alavesa gang on the basis of various arguments, including the fact that the Rioja Alavesa brand was associated with the gang itself – it was the most important argument – within its own name, but also within a series of web domains. It has not been possible to arrive at that situation in which the response, as it did in the State, was to be made to the appeal by the gang. Arrived in this scenario, of course, we understand that the Rioja Alavesa brand has to be available to Basque companies and institutions. The intensive use of this brand depends on the actions to be carried out, in different categories, of course, and must be in the hands of Basque institutions. What's the first performance we're going to perform right now? For what we have to do is, at the very least – it is the first of the actions that we are going to carry out – officially require the regulatory board to give in, let's say, in good faith the regulation and use of the Rioja Alavesa brand in all categories to the Basque administrations and companies and, in particular, that of the wine that is within what we have come to structure in the HAZI Foundation what we call the Basque Wine Office, and the rest of the areas that remain within the Alavesa gang and the Foral Diputación de Álava. It is the first action we must take in a negotiation that we understand in good faith. But it must be started there, because once the resources have been won in the State but not in Europe, it is up to us to work to achieve that use and regulation of the mark within the Autonomous Community. Because, as you rightly said, it is defending a differential fact simply and that, of course, in the case of wine is very clear. From there, once that action has been taken, and depending on the response of the regulatory board, we will definitely undertake other actions to ensure that the use of the brand remains here and is used by Basque companies and institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Lopez de Rocky, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u45	Thanks again. I see you optimistic, Mrs. Tapia. I see you optimistic and you also speak in good faith of the regulatory council. For it will not be for what it has shown us so far, because good faith, which is good faith, the regulatory council never proves it. Never. I would say one more thing, this government has a representative with a voice on the regulatory board. Hasn't anyone listened to you? Hasn't anyone said anything out loud? Have you gone there to talk something, you haven't spoken it, or you don't talk much, or you talk low or the regulatory board doesn't care what the Basque government says? It can also be another option. Good faith from the Board of Regulators, I'm sorry, but EH Bildu doesn't believe it. The brand isn't ours. If it's clear it's not ours. We have the name that, in fact, is historic. Moreover, it is the historical name of an Alavesa region, indeed. But the brand isn't ours. It's not in our hands. Otherwise, we wouldn't have to ask permission every time we want to do something with it. That's right. Besides, we're not only talking about a wine brand, we're talking about a historic name for three centuries. That is, Felix María Sáenz de Samaniego already used it in his writings, for example; it already appeared in the writings of the Royal Basque Society of Friends of the Country, that is, he already wrote it as a region name. I mean, the regulator's coming, he's coming up and he's taking it. And the government 20 years looking the other way and EH Bildu has to finally bring it to Parliament today, but a few days ago to the General Councils of Araba too, and say, "Hey, forgive me, does anyone know anything about the Rioja Alavesa brand?" So far nobody's said anything. The feeling I have – I'm going to apologize, Mrs Tapia – is that ostrichs put their heads under the ground, and that's a very risky strategy, and more now when there were 500 family cellars a few years ago and today we have 200. I mean, we're falling down a cliff down, we're going down. As long as this government does not put its batteries in place, do not put forward a real strategy for the future and think that this is not just the recovery of a brand. No, no, no. We are talking about social cohesion, we are talking about peoples, we are talking about the maintenance of a primary sector in this case, if you want, of a maintenance that is necessary but needs a strategy for the future. The strategy can't work according to what the regulatory board tells us or doesn't tell us, or it works and it's going to do something the next day. It can't work that way, we have to defend our wines, we have to defend our farming people who are there killing themselves and surviving badly. Because every time we talk about excellence, we're going to talk about excellence. Every day Rioja Alavesa comes out in the newspapers, talking about excellence, internationalization, how well she goes... It's not going well! That we're running out of small, family cellars! They're landing here big wineries that are keeping everything! The vineyards are worth a lot, but they're worth a lot to those who can afford them! So, a little please. So, "in good faith"... I'm so sorry. Today good faith, yesterday I think I said it also in these same microphones, Euskal Herria Bildu again reaching out because we have no other remedy, because we understand the country as well. We have to go hand in hand, but of course when the Basque Government really stands up, it does not just trust good will, because that sounds a little mystical to me, the truth. We cannot trust the good will of the regulatory council. We need to put strategies in place. But country strategies at 20 or 30 years. We can't say, "Today I'm hit and I'm reacting because I'm hit." No, man, no. No, man, no. So I'm glad you tell me you're going to do something. But please don't tell me we're going on and on. Tell me we're finally going to fight, we're going to catch the Rioja Alavesa squad and we're going to help them and advise them, because that's why this government has the tools to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u46	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Mrs. Tapia, it's yours to answer the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u47	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I am surprised by Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, because she tells me that the government has done nothing in 20 years and thanks to Euskal Herria Bildu we are now talking in the General Councils and in the Basque Parliament. Did you guys show up yesterday? Were you not in this Parliament and in the General Councils? Or did you find out yesterday that this was happening and you really found out yesterday? Because the government, the Diputación Foral, the Rioja Alavesa gang had already defended this brand and the extension of the wine brand, by the way, that the property refers to wine, not to people, or to everything you have mixed here... He had already defended it, he had won in the Spanish state. He defended it in Europe, he lost it. But it just seems like you're the ones who were born today. You're the ones who just found out this was happening. It gives me that feeling, because, really, so far, I have never heard you talk about this subject, never, either in the General Councils or in the Basque Parliament. Then it is you who have found out now. Anyway, let's get this straight. When we speak in good faith, when one enters into a negotiation with another, one must always sit in good faith and with the will of agreement. And that is what we are going to do, to demand the transfer of that brand and the use by the Basque companies and institutions – let us clarify it, and I will clarify it again – in the area of wine and in those other areas which they have intended to expand. But of course, in the name of the gang they have not been involved, and there are other areas in which we have to use the brand because we can do it. Have they been over-restricted by using or claiming to use the trademark and ownership of that trademark in the field of wine, textiles, stationery and so on, as you have said? Yeah. Is he out of bounds? Yeah. But there. We are not going to mix what is happening with the wineries, what is happening with the countryside, with the way they work in Rioja Alavesa, which, by the way, has been worked with the absence, in his opinion, of a country strategy and an Alavesa gang strategy, when it was the Foral Diputación de Álava itself – it is not up to me, but I will say it – who has undertaken a strategy and has, of course, launched a series of actions not long ago in Rioja Alavesa. Then please don't deny the evidence, but that doesn't mean we're not going to act and we're going to do it. Now, we will always enter into that negotiation with the will of agreement. And if that negotiations do not bear fruit, there will be other measures that we will put into operation. Don't have the slightest doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpology, made from the US Development and Sub-Separators of the Casanova Alonso ARRRG, partly of the telecommerics network that was built with public money, about the measurements of the Eucaltel Corporation." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u49	Yes, thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning chief. Mrs. Tapia, I don't know if you know the Clash Group or whether you like it, but this team has a pretty famous song and also a name for one of his records, London Calling London Calling Calling Callling. In World War II, the BBC when it was broadcasting for Europe began its broadcasts, "London calling", which we could translate something like "speaking London". Speaking London, listening to Euskaltel, and to obedience too, Euskaltel, because as we said a few months ago, the Euskaltel decision-making centre is in London, and the relevant decisions about Euskaltel's future are made in London and are communicated from London, not on the board of directors, not on the Euskaltel shareholders' board, but in Zegona CEO's statements to the British press. And so we found out by this strange way that, as we advanced, it was on the copy book of the optical fibre network. O'Hare, Znea's CEO, had said that they were examining how to put the optical fibre network in value, and we all understood that he meant to put it in value. They may be accused of many things, and I myself accuse him of reason; but they have a virtue, which is transparent, as others do not, and I would like to mention the former director or President of the Basques. Zegona's not lying, Zegota's not cheating, Zegota's not cheating. Others did, and carried him to the abyss of Euskalel, destroying the character of the Basque Company. No, Zneca said what she's come for and she's doing. It's got light, it's transparent, it's filling. They said they'd buy it and fix it and sell it. And now they're repairing it, but they're repairing it with a clear purpose: Winning money. It could be too tight. The question is, why these are in this company and have all the other notations and other meanings that have been taken from it. They want to make money. Now, in a propaganda exercise, the president says, "No, no, we don't think to sell the net today." Not today, but maybe tomorrow. Not today, but tomorrow. These have a light on the road page. They're trying to make spaghetti in the state, but not as an operator to stabilize Eusaltel in state class, but they're selling Euscaltel. Slope and sell. Suction him to sell it. To eat the company, to make it fatter and more appetizing, to put it in the state market, to put it in the window and to do the same thing that they have called to preside Euskaltel did in Jazztel, that is, to stick the big ball. And all shareholders, logically, are happy because they're going to make money and that's their role. They can't be asked for anything else, they can't be asked to have a country view. We have already said at the time that Mr O'Hare, for example, cannot tell his Zegona shareholders that he is going to have any minimum commitment to Euskal Herria or Basque culture; it is that they run him into hats or bonbines – as we are talking about London – but they cannot do so. The problem is why this company is in the hands of these people, and why it is in the hands of these people the fiber optic network that we build and pay with public money. For 68 million, it was sold badly in August 2012 by a decision of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, with the support of the People's Party. And to more than one a chill runs its back when it thinks about the price that this network can have on the market, and the comparison that can be made between the price for which it was sold and the price for which it could now be sold on the market. And we ask, and we said, "The decision to London," we said, "was on the network business book, and we said that there's no guarantee that there's not a 25% that can lock up between the stockholders at this time. On the one hand, because the Arkbank hasn't filled that paper, but only chestbanks can do anything without 25% of that: "You shall sell the net, sell the tabernacle, and change the tabernacle. We don't think they will, but because they've already changed the decision, the practical and the real. Euscalel is an strategic company, we've said that over and over again. I would add, in this intervention of today, another factor or other element to this strategicity, which we have rarely alluded to: Euscalel's tech company. And now the technological companies, the television companies, have a paper in the culture world, these connide contenoids. The other day he remembered on the radio a professor from the UPV, that when we put with the Euskaltel decoder number 1 on the channel, we get ETB1. Eta ha anekdota txiki bat da, anekdota txiki bat da, bathe hori geratetzen da Euskaltelek Euskal Herriarekiko konpromisărekin hori erabaki duelako. And there are thousands of other things like that that that that that can be done. I mentioned this cultural aspect, because it is rarely mentioned, but the technological aspect is central, and we all know that the future of economy and social society is technological. And we have to be there. And we should also be there with our own tools. You know, better than I, that the future is the future, and a great part of the future is already present, that the future is the future 5G, that the future is the future 4.0, that the future is artificial intelligence, instinctive intelligence, taxization, Interneting of things. That's the future, and that's why the television companies will have a lot of paper. And if we want to have an advanced and competitive hundred producers on this hundred producers, to base the advanced and just society on this hundred producers, we need to have a company or a company that will play important paper in that area. The government and the Basque People were precursors in the development of the optical fibres. And the optical fibres may perhaps be that the future may come from the waves, for the moment, as far as the fibres are concerned, so far as it has its role. But we were pioneers in the implantation of that fibre. Some tell me I'm late. I accept that when I get out of here, I can talk about this. He guessed, he guessed, when, in the '90s, he implanted the optical fibre network. And now he asks you to think it over again, and we don't care if he has merit for you, because we will win as a people. Guess what's going on with the Basques. The Basque Country is a small boat in the wide world. Sometimes the sea is calm and sometimes rough, but we're a small boat in the economy, culture, and all the other parts. And we cannot refuse the few resources we have made to strengthen and maintain our condition. You have come here today to talk about investment in Kaiku and you also set it as an example. And now that my partner Eva has been talking before, that she has cows, it's like you're going to buy a cow or a few cows and you say "show me a sample" and they bring you a bare cow, who can't even walk, half fuck, with the horns down and says, "And this is what you have to teach?". If Kaiku's operation is what you have to teach how to work the root and settle the root, then we are ready. We are ready, because you have taken 7% of Kaiku that you had in this hand and changed it to this hand. That's hand games. And then the counselor says, "I don't know why Ekarpen sold it." He doesn't know, he's just the tax advisor, he doesn't know why Ekarpen sold it. You have changed hands a property that was already Basque. The Basque 7 % remains the Basque 7 %, they have not increased the root and it was not a company whose root was in particular at risk. You – and you go two out of two, because in CAF you did the same thing – what you're doing is covering Kutxabank's disinvestment strategy, because you've made two investments – and since we're talking about Kaiku, I allow the easy joke – white and bottled milk. Two investments and the two have covered the exit from Kutxabank and neither of them had any specific threat of uprooting. And, on the other hand, in companies like Euskaltel, where there is no danger but that all the alarms and all the red lights have been on for a long time, they say they can't do anything, Mr Erkoreka, who is at his side says, "No, no, it's just that I can't do anything, that it's a private company." Yeah. I know it's a private one. It's 100% private because you sold the shares, because you decided it was. And now what we have come to ask of you is that you decide, precisely, to reverse that path. To reverse the path that has proved to be extremely wrong, which endangers employment, the quality of employment, the future of a technological enterprise that is fundamental to this country, the loss of a company that can be a tractor in this transition towards modernization and digitisation of society and of the productive fabric. And what I'm asking is that, since they're going to set up an investment fund, if they do, because now they're saying that in the first half of 2020, we're running out of Parliament... I don't know, Mr. Urkullu isn't here to ask when the elections are going to be. But we are not finished with the parliamentary term and the fund has not yet started to function; and the only two operations have been two operations that have been completely dispersed, that do not meet any strategic objectives and that do not fulfil that functionality of rooting. We're on time. We're in time with the Basques, but that can be said in a few months. We won't be in time soon. Then move.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u51	Thank you, Mrs. President. Well, first of all, Mr. Casanova, I'm going to tell you about the things you've read and said here, some of which I'm quite sure I agree with a bit of reflection you make, because in the other, there's a bit of tergibert. But what is it? Euscaltel is an strategic company, of course. There is no doubt that it is important that there should be a company in our country, as you have mentioned, to guarantee 5G or digitalization in general. But I think we can all agree on that. In fact, I can tell you that the work is already taking place and that it's filling up with different initiatives. It doesn't mean that it's fully full, but that this company is filling up because it's developing a lot of projects in the company with fun, because it's developing them and planning to develop them. In all this, I quite agree with you. To have a local company in the communication area that will have a view of it and work with its local corporations, we need to be really somebody, because like a small town, like a city of 2 million people, we need to introduce something special and share it with you. That's right. Euscalel's network sale theme, as you say, one of the ropes, one of the stockholders, 21% of which belongs to the porter. And why I tell you you're a manipulating, a little bit, when you say that the resolution really went to London. That's not true. The decision remains here, because Zgona really has 21%. No more. Which is supposed to be the main stockholder, but the second one, the Arkbank alone is the difference of %1. And again, in regard to the small Escalic stockholders and other stocks, 25 percent is guaranteed today. So a stockholder doesn't suppose that's what the company has decided. There's no such thing as a meeting in the administration as now or before. Another thing is, to think that a special stockholder or two may be a way, but that's not even stated in the administrative committee. And today, CEO, the D.A. has mentioned that Euscaltel doesn't plan the sale of his network today. And if he doesn't plan, we won't begin, as they say in Spanish, at Castillos el air. Therefore, what the company's CEO publicly says is that Euskaltel, and you also say that, today is not about selling the network. Whoever raised the sale of the network is a partner. It is true that it is a partner that has the highest percentage, but it is not a majority, it has 21 %. I have not heard any kind of approach from any other partner and where those decisions are made is on the board of directors. And with 21% you don't have the majority, as you well know. I doubted that someone who has 73% in a company does not put the root at risk and does not, because it is a serious company. But, in any case, 25% in Euskaltel, we have said on more than one occasion, is in Basque hands and that 25% guarantees a number of aspects which we have talked about on many occasions. Now, as we are concerned – both you and I, in this case because we are going to talk about the same thing – about what Euskaltel's involvement in Basque productive fabric and its performances is, I will tell you that it is true that Euskadi was right when he set up his fiber optic network. And I believe that the Basque administrations have once again made good progress, when they were pioneers in the expansion of this fiber optic network, they decided to take them to the last point in the Autonomous Community, working from two points of view: on the one hand, reaching all industrial polygons and areas of productive development, and reaching very small rural centres, where the primary sector can also have access to all these tools, where working hand in hand, precisely with Euskaltel, has been able to launch very important actions. As far as I am concerned as a department, of course, the whole of the extension to industrial polygons has been worked out, worked and different types of solutions have been proposed precisely by the hand of Euskaltel. He has been an indispensable agent for that today to be a reality, an agent involved not only with digitization in general, but with reaching those cores where he does not have exactly many customers, but he understands that they are very relevant to ensure territorial balance in Euskadi. He has worked on the different calls, and I insist, proposing different types of solutions that do not all pass through the fiber optics. Secondly, it is a tractor agent within the Bind 4.0 initiative, a tractor agent and very active. It is one of the 15 initial companies with which work started with different start-up companies In each of the calls, and not all companies do, it has been part of both the evaluation and selection committee, as well as in the recruitment and work with different start-up start-up start-up What else? On another level, because you were talking about the subject also cultural. Well, we're going to the developments, maybe massive, and they're not strictly technological development, but they're relevant to the country, like the counters. Well, they have also shown that they have a commitment to this country, in its development and in the –massification we will not say – universalization of these technologies throughout the territories, and reaching the maximum number of people. And at the moment, we are working on another type of initiative that is much more linked to those areas of business digitalisation that we hope will soon see the light, with a very active participation of the whole, let us say, of the management team of the company Euskaltel. Therefore, its commitment to technological development and to the country's companies is being demonstrated and can be seen. The commitment and the guarantee of permanent residence of the headquarters at the moment is guaranteed, and that a certain shareholder, by the way Irish, puts on the market in London, with its shareholders from that fund, the possibility of selling the network does not mean that today that is a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u53	Mrs. Tapia, you said at first that we'd agree on certain things, and that we'd agree on some points, and you've made me quite right when you said what Euscaltel does today to encourage a hundred producers, to encourage technological progress and to keep the commitment to this country. That's why we're talking about Basque, because we want to keep doing it and strengthen it. And you want it, I want it, but the Zegona owners don't want it. The owner of the cegona doesn't care, and the majority of the Basques don't give a shit. They can do that here in Murzia or they can stop doing that if they earn more money. And you know as well as I do. And we want Euscaltels to maintain this original nature, and to accuse us of it, is that he is in great danger of losing it, and everyone knows it. And you do not reassure me, Mrs Tapia, neither you nor your government reassure me by saying "tranquis, nothing is going to happen". Because we've been hearing "tranquis, nothing's going to happen" for seven years, and it's happening. And things are happening in an absolute consistency and in a very clear direction. You say in 2012: "We are going to sell the fiber optic network, but tranchi that nothing is going to happen because in Euskaltel is majority shareholder, with Kutxabank all quiet." Then he says, "The funds are coming, well, they're a little vulture funds and so on, but Kutxabank is still there, tranchis." The vulture funds come, they make the mistake they make, they come out on the market and they say: "Tranqui, the company needs capitalization but already Kutxabank is not going to be a majority but it will have thirty percent, tranchi". Okay, start Kutxabank and keep selling. "Tranquis, who remains the majority shareholder." Zegona arrives, for an operation of Erauzkin, a true apprentice of witch who has unleashed forces that has not been able to control – and the only pity we have is that he has gone home, but he has gone home with the well-lined kidney, with the many millions that he has taken out in Euskaltel after the mess he has bound up – and invokes the evil one, and we already know how these things end, because they have brought Zegona and Zegona and "tranqui". And the last thing I don't know – I've lost the thread a little bit – but you say "quiet, you're not going to come in with the knife" and the next day swallows up managers, who laughs at the red wedding of Game of Thrones. And "quiet, quiet, quiet." But it is that all the warnings we have made have been fulfilled. Because there will be things in which we are wrong, like everyone else – I don't want to be arrogant on this issue – but it is that we review the history of the debates that have taken place in this Parliament since August 2012, when it is decided to sell the fiber optic network, when EA and Aralar are already warning of what is going to happen; and man, step by step we have been saying what is going to happen and indeed our fears have been confirmed. That's why it doesn't reassure me at all now that you tell me you're not going to sell the fiber optic network. Because on this subject, as on others, no, but on this subject has happened, unfortunately, what we had said was going to happen and what you have said was not going to happen. Nor does it reassure me that they put a person at the head of Euskaltel who was in charge of leading a telecommunications company such as Jazztel – with the merit that it wants to be awarded – and who then sold it. Because it gives me the impression – and we have contrasted this with knowledgeable sources in the sector – that what is meant to be done is precisely the same, that is, to put Euskaltel in the window of the state and then to sell it, which is what Zegona wants to do. You said Zegona has 21% and Kutxabank the 19th and peak, which separates them 1 %. Kutxabank and Zegona in shares separate 1 %. But it separates them something much bigger, and it is that Zegona has very clear what she wants and has the ability to do so; and Kutxabank seems not to have very clear, or it is the same thing that Zegona wants what Kutxabank wants. Because if Kutxabank had a clear strategy, this wouldn't be happening. We also talked about Kutxabank, you told me you're going to explain Kaiku to me the other day. I still don't distinguish whether the Ekarpen background or the new background is more or less Basque to each other. But Kutxabank will one day have to explain – I promise to ask them again and again from this atril – the strategy that is making, absolutely irresponsible, of disinvestment in this country. Not only does it separate them 1%, it separates them that Zegona has a strategy and it also has allies that allow it to have the majority and, surprisingly, in some of the Kutxabank decisions it has also been placed among those allies. We have talked about investment funds, and I say to you that you have presented me as an example of those investments a little bit of a blizzard, that I do not buy it, that of Kaiku, than not. I want you to make a real investment, a country investment, an investment that makes sense of that structural bottom-up investment fund with strategic companies, an investment in Euskaltel. And talk to Kutxabank to rectify his attitude and defend a country strategy within the Kutxabank board of directors. And let him talk to the banking foundations that have a certain level of liquidity and a certain investment capacity, and that among them articulate a significant investment to enter Euskaltel, scare Zegona and put Euskaltel back in the lane from which he should never have left, which is the lane of being a telecommunications company in service, not only of the economic interests of its owners, but also of the collective well-being of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u54	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u55	Thank you. First of all, I didn't say you're not going to sell the network. I've said exactly the same as you, that the CEO of the company has said he's not here right now. I'm nobody, I'm not in the management of the company. I say to you, as you well know, that it has not even been raised on the board of directors, which is who has to make the decision. What Zegona is going to do or what she has in mind, obviously, neither you nor I know him. But one thing is what you talk about and another thing is what you have in mind as you well know. Now, it's 21%. There are other relevant shareholders. Of course, it is true that all those steps have been taken that you say, but has that meant that Euskaltel has left? No, no, Did that mean the network was sold? No, no, It has been expanded and expanded thanks to the cooperation of the Government, to many other places where it is really important. That's shares too. Are you working with the Basque productive tissue? Yeah. Are you introducing new technologies? Also. Some of the proceedings have been raised. Then one thing is the stock movements, one thing is the actions at the level of board of directors, of movement of an entry in funds, of the exit to the stock exchange... It's movements, let me express it, financial, and something else is technological movements. And I think we have to differentiate them, because what we really care about is the second. I don't care as much who the shareholder is as what he takes. And this moment has been demonstrated and is being demonstrated, that despite all these movements the company is and remains committed to the country and is working on new projects. Despite Zegona's entrance, which you see as something bad, I'm not going to call her either good or bad. He's 21%, and he's the most important shareholder. Right. However, the commitments made previously continue to maintain them, and goes further, introduces new possibilities and new projects that we will soon be aware of, which I cannot advance today. But their commitment continues to exist. From that point of view, for a minimum vote of confidence does, from that point of view. From purely technological and involvement with companies. And we're going to see what happens on the board of directors, whether or not that operation arises, and under what conditions. I keep saying, it is true that it has 21 %; but 25 % of the roots and a number of aspects such as head office, maintenance of the employment centre and actions are guaranteed today. What we want is their complication. I think that's clear, and we have to guarantee it from the beginning, and at least at this moment it's guaranteed. What will happen from here to the future? Motions are currently technologically associated with this town and involved in this town. And involved with the initiatives here, and they're planning fresh enterprises too. In this sense, I think, they ought also to be admitted. We will talk at another time about the difference between the Ekarpen and Finkatuz fund, but it is as simple as that one is short-range, venture capital with an entry and exit between 5 and 7 years at most, and the other is of a permanence vocation. I think it's clear. I think it is clear what the vocation of this government is and it is to enter into the participation of many companies – whether you value them or not, and I think Kaiku is a company of great value – with a vocation of permanence. That's the difference. If you don't want to understand, you don't want to understand. But that's the difference and I think it's very simple. Either we're 5 years old and we're leaving and you're going to know who's coming in; or we're going to stay. And I think that's the main asset we have to work on: staying on a permanent basis. And also, as much as you ridicule him, in a company like Kaiku, which has high technological value; and a job with its main shareholder, who is Emmi, can certainly lead us to places where we are not today but we have a chance to be. And there's also a bet to be made. We have to take a risk and we have to make a bet for this country in this sector too, which is very much associated with the primary sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpolate, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemos team, made to the head of the economics and the sub-gulden department, to promote disorganized energy." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Mrs. Tapia, my internation today, will be to talk about retractable energy. It's not the last time and probably not the last. As you know, we've talked about this, and we've talked about it many times, as far as our state is concerned with the development of the retatory energy, it's quite weak. And it'll be my interpenetration to see if we can open new roads between you and me. In our energy strategy, the Eukadic energy strategy, shows that as a purpose the number of retals will be 2030 percent. And, according to the latest data, we're not gonna get to that percentage, we're on 13% and we're not moving. We haven't moved in the past four years, which is as far as the general energy is concerned, but as regards electricity or electricity, it will be a similar situation. The goal is 19%, and we're 7%. We are therefore stagnant in renewable energies. This is not a novelty and this your department has recognized, yourself. And well, as a country we are as we are, and the question is how we can improve on the development of renewable energies. Within the Euskadi 2030 Energy Strategy there is an objective that is the L6 line, which is to boost the production of renewable electricity, and according to the latest follow-up reports, the last report of 2018, we are regular, regular throwing at bad. A number of actions and initiatives are set out in this line L6. On the one hand, there is the development of the Euskadi Wind Energy PTS, which after some agreement we have had here in Parliament seems to be a renewable energy PTS. I am not going to focus on that, because I believe you have already come out in the media saying that you are going to reactivate it, and good because you will have your way. There is a second initiative which is the promotion of renewable energy projects alongside local governments, and it is also an issue that I imagine will be under way. And the bottom line of my question today is the third of those initiatives, which is to boost the distributed generation of low power. On this issue you have so far developed a line of aids, which, seeing the results you have had, also show a stagnation. There is a stagnation both in the money they dedicate to him and in the number of projects they manage to drive. So, I would like to convey to you today the importance of decentralised energy production. Why? For two reasons. So far the paradigm of energy production, at least in the last two centuries, has been to produce it centrally, through energy-generating companies. But that paradigm is changing, it is changing for the new times, it is changing for the new social dynamics and also for the new technological advances that exist. Decentralized production is now a sustainable alternative and a just alternative. It is sustainable because, unlike centralized production, of course, because it is smaller in size, its impact is smaller. You already know that here in Euskadi we have a limited capacity to do centralized production, and that in addition to having that limited potential, some of the projects that can be developed in the future, certainly as happened in the past, have a certain citizen opposition. This is an issue that has emerged in this Parliament over and over again, and is going to remain there on the table. Decentralized production is therefore more sustainable, but it is also fairer; because what it does is that all citizens and all companies have the capacity to enjoy resources that are natural and that are inexhaustible and that are common – such as wind and sun – and that can obtain an economic benefit or a social benefit from that exploitation, use, or use of those inexhaustible resources. So, within the alternative that is now decentralized renewable energies, I will refer to three important issues: on the one hand, the electric self-consumption; on the other hand, the domestic thermal solar energy installations and, on the other, the new concept that comes from Europe, which are the citizens' energy communities. These three issues seem to me to be key to the development of distributed energy generation and hence to ask you about them. I am not going to tell you anything about electrical self-consumption that has not been talked about in this Parliament either. It was a banned alternative, both by the governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party at the time, it must also be said, with tacit support from the Basque Nationalist Party, but since last spring there has been a real decree that allows electric self-consumption. Administrative, technical and economic conditions have been regulated, and it is now a reality. So, I would like you to tell us what your position is on electric self-consumption, if you are going to make not only a moderately enthusiastic support, but a determined impulse, which is what our group wants on this issue: that electric self-consumption is no longer a mere anecdote banned by the big electric companies but is a reality. The second important issue is that of domestic thermal solar energy installations, because our group for a couple of years has been asking about the operation of thermal solar panels that we have in all our homes to heat hot water, and we find that of the first installations that were inspected in 2017, 80%, more than 80% had serious deficiencies, that is, they did not work. Last year we asked again for the data and it has improved. Right now it only has serious deficiencies 60 and so many %, that is, two out of three panels do not work. So, what I wanted to put to you is, well, seeing that the first two batches of facilities inspected practically do not work – I am not going to say it in its entirety but for the most part – and that this has been denounced by the installers themselves and by the energy plant companies themselves, is your department going to consider doing some kind of special inspection campaign to check that all the facilities, whether or not they have reached their review date, are working? Because, of course, this is of enormous social importance. Why? Because these facilities are placed in all our homes and also in official protective housing, in social housing, in all our homes. That these facilities do not work means that these people cannot be saving an average of 30 or 40% of heating costs. And that has a huge impact, on the one hand, on the impact on our energy system on climate change; but, on the other hand, on the energy poverty situation of hundreds and thousands of families. It has not only an environmental component, but also a social component. That is why it is important that we not just wait for those facilities to make the revisions that are legally theirs, but that we have a more proactive attitude in this regard. And finally, we have the citizens' energy communities, which, as I said, is a new concept that comes from a directive that came into force in June this year and that, well, I will define them very quickly, because if I do not go away time. They are associations, cooperatives or non-profit organizations that are controlled by citizens – by local members – that are dedicated to distributed energy generation and that carry out activities as a network manager, as an energy supplier or as a local aggregator. In other words, they are oriented towards the energy supply of citizens to citizens and are oriented more towards value than to economic profitability. So, I would like to know if your department has a position on these citizen energy communities – whose transposition into state law will have to come in December 2020 – if they are going to support them, if they are going to actively promote them, if they are going to start working in this area at the level of local communities, of our municipalities or cities, or if they somehow understand that it is not appropriate to support these communities. Our group, already ahead of you, does believe that they are a very important figure to which we have to support, because they give us a number of added advantages to decentralised energy production and, in some way, they allow us to move towards that model that our group has always said, more sustainable, fairer, more solidarity and more democratic energy than we currently have in this country. So, well, on these issues, I would like you to put your proposal to us. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u58	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u59	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Becerra, I must begin by mentioning one thing, because something you mention in writing is not very accurate. And you mention, 2005 and 2015. that the production of retal energy has been unchanged for years-that is to say, in youth, you say, "see haenidi inliterate." Well, it has to be mentioned that there have been changes from the consumption view and the perspective of generation, and, for instance, only in regard to the consumption view of the consumption, in 2005 that was nearly 7%, it was almost 14% in 2017, and the data 2018 will be much better than when we close it up, and I'll anticipate them when we close. It is true that we are still far from 17,5% marked by Europe, but it is obvious that there is an evolution and there is a consciousness. For example, and it proves that when you commit, it's just a matter of time ago that it's all going to be all our energy, all electricity, all green, that a general purchase has been set up and that 100 percent will be green. So it's a pattern that makes things work, and we make that model an acción impersonator. Therefore, the Government's commitment is to act directly where it has its powers and its ways of acting. And our commitment has now been demonstrated by the centralized purchase of electricity, with 100% green energy. Well, efforts are being made in Euskadi, so – perhaps smaller than we would need to achieve those goals set by Europe – but steps are being taken and we also hope that in the coming years they will be with more effort and intensity. It is true that, besides, and you said so yourself, we have limited capacity due to our geographical characteristics to generate renewable energy. However, actions are also being undertaken, as you well know. In Euskadi at the end of 2018 we had more than 2,500 photovoltaic solar power installations, for example. 900 of them are isolated from the power grid, that is, they are part of that self-consumption we were talking about, and the rest are connected to the power grid. Together there are 26 megawatts of energy that can be generated. At the same time, we are also working with outlaws, municipalities and other bodies to put more solar photovoltaic plates into operation. Since the EVE, there are currently about 350 of these facilities, with a total power of about 5 megawatts, in collaboration with other administrations, and we will intensify the start-up. That means that between public administrations we have 20% of solar photovoltaic energy. Moreover, as a result of the implementation of Royal Decree 244/2019 of 5 April, administrative conditions are regulated – as you have commented – for the development of self-consumption, which until now, until the implementation of that decree, was a little difficult. That has therefore allowed us or allows us to give a relevant boost to self-consumption. And the first of the actions, which is very simple, but which is already underway from April to now, is to facilitate and communicate the new process of processing, simpler, a short-term administrative processing for the start-up of new self-consumption facilities. That is the first of the actions which, I say, is very simple but which also allows us to promote the new possibilities. In addition, this allows us, as you said, to set up new renewable installations, which are not very important in terms of the energy they generate, but which are at the level of individual self-consumption and at the level, again, exemplary on the part of each and every one of us living in this country. We are driving new projects and new initiatives in terms of energy communities, it is true, in which energy can be shared – as you said – to optimize supply and demand management – those communities will allow us to do that – and in the management and creation, even, of so-called virtual power networks for the management of that generation distributed according to demand. To do this, we need to put in place the figure of a demand aggregator, which is an active agent in all these communities. And they'll have a chance to see it in the budgets as well. Within the budget of the Basque Energy Authority, there is a significant increase in that budget with the aim of setting up new installations, both renewable energy, more at the level – let's say – of a larger generation, as well as in self-consumption actions. But of course, we are going to work on something that worries you, which are the energy communities. It's planned. In addition, we continue to implement the Bidelek 4.0, that is, a project that will allow us to manage this distributed energy in a much more efficient and much smarter way, which will contribute to the decarbonisation of our economic fabric and, at the same time, enable us to develop industry that can be at the forefront of all this type of technology. We will continue with the use of renewable gas, through a joint project between the EVE and Nortegas, in which biomethane will play in the future – or we understand that it can play in the future – an important element in this energy mix, in which we will work on the economic-financial viability and the technical feasibility for the exploitation of biomethane that is produced in the landfills that already exist at present in Euskadi and those coming from the agro-food industries. As far as aid programmes are concerned, we will continue with the same ones that we have at the moment with regard to the generation of renewable energy, but also a society that is involved by the Basque Energy and Wind Energy Agency in Euskadi is going to work on the impulse of wind energy at a somewhat more important level, and is currently in the process of measuring the existing wind resource in order to be able to analyse what is going to be the best of the situations. Ekian Solar is also an initiative for joint work between the EVE and Krean society. It is a solar energy project that is the largest in Euskadi, which doubles the capacity of photovoltaic solar energy, which will be in operation before the end of this year with 24 megawatts, in which 22 companies are involved in the purchase of the energy produced by that power plant. Therefore, also, it is not self-consumption, but it can be considered as an enhancement of that consumption of solar solar photovoltaic renewable energy in this case. In addition, as regards thermal production with decentralised renewable energies, there are a number of initiatives that we will continue to drive, but which already exist at this time. In biomass, in collaboration with the HAZI Foundation and the EVE, to promote the exploitation of all forest biomass, both local and more globally, that allows us to take advantage very close of all that biomass that is generated at the time of managing our forest mass and to manage it properly with a special impact in Rioja Alavesa with the pruning of the vines. In geothermal we also develop a heat network in the area of Zorrozaurre and are already carrying out studies with the Euskadi Feeding Cluster so that the technology can of course be used in the best possible way. And there are three hydrothermia projects, also in the ports of Bermeo, Lekeitio and Ondarroa. Therefore, we are trying to promote different initiatives from the point of view of the more massive generation, let's say, or more local and more decentralized, more distributed, that allows us to increase both the generation and the impulse to consumption in Euskadi. These are some of the initiatives that are already under way but which, of course, we intend to boost and equip them with more resources over the next 2020 year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u61	The truth is, Mrs. Tapia, you're right that I'm not very skilled in preparing my inquiries, and on a day like today that you've had three questions and three inquiries... Well, I'm committed to getting better at the next ones so that you can answer me better, the truth. It is true, you yourself have acknowledged that we are not going to meet the targets or we are not going to meet the renewables targets, and it is true that, as you said, they are taking steps, but they are taking steps towards enhancing centralized energy. You have referred to the plant of Ekian Solar, it is a centralized plant. You have recently signed an agreement with Iberdrola for the creation of society, Aixendar, for the development of renewable energies centralized in wind plants. You told me about the Bidelek 4.0 project, which is money for Iberdrola. That is not wrong, that is, you have there, let's say, a line of work, and the line of work that I propose to you, which is that of decentralized energies, is not contrary to that, is complementary. I believe that you have also said this in your speech, which is complementary. So, of course, I have drawn three very specific questions from you, perhaps you have not been prepared to answer them, I do not know. But I want to focus on the three issues. On the one hand, there is the fact of decentralized energy as an alternative. Look, I'm going to take the statements of a person who is not holy out of my devotion, Mr. Emiliano López Atxurra, President of Petronor, but, well, for you, he is a saint who usually wears enough candles. And this gentleman says in a headline: "The main challenge of energy is its democratization." And I believe that this is the challenge that not only Euskadi has, but most of the industrialized societies. Because Mr López Atxurra says "regulation is often behind social needs, but if the market evolves to a decentralized generation, which is also a strategic tool for energy efficiency and democratisation, it will have to be adapted". So what I propose to you is that the Basque Government, from now on, should begin to adapt to this new reality, that it should continue to do the centralized energy projects that it believes or considers appropriate, but that it should somehow give it a boost to decentralized energy; the momentum it deserves, because otherwise, we will be left behind. Look, I told you about self-consumption. This is an article that appeared in The Economist That means that 1 in 5 megawatts that are installed in the world and in Spain will be of electrical energy in self-consumption, of electrical self-consumption. So, here you see the importance not only of keeping us where we are, but of increasing the number of games, of increasing the momentum for electric self-consumption and decentralised energy. On the other hand, I have mentioned an issue which may seem a minor one, namely solar thermal panels, but it will agree with me, after my first intervention, that they are of fundamental importance in addressing energy poverty. Because with solar thermal panels we save between 30 and 40% of gas or diesel consumption, and that is fossil energy that contributes to climate change. Finally, I will refer again to the citizen communities. You said you're looking at them, you're looking at network aggregators and a number of community-related issues. I want to show you how important they are. The European directive itself, which was published this June, is textual, and I will use my last minute to read it: "Community energy offers all consumers an inclusive option of direct participation in the production, consumption or distribution of energy. These Community energy initiatives focus on providing their members or partners with affordable energy (...) rather than prioritising benefits (...). By directly involving consumers, these initiatives (...) demonstrate their potential to facilitate the adoption of new technologies and consumption patterns, including smart distribution networks (...)" as you said. "Community energy can also boost energy efficiency at home and help combat energy poverty by reducing consumption and lower supply rates. When successfully managed, such initiatives have provided economic, social and environmental benefits to the community that go beyond the mere benefits derived from the provision of energy services." This is being said to you by the European Union, the European Community, and I invite you to go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u62	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u63	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr Becerra, I will not be the one to tell you that the intervention has been prepared better or worse. But either you haven't heard me or I've been very thick, which can be the second much more. But of course, if we are talking about decentralised energy – or distributed, as it is called in the more technical sphere – as a possibility, of course there are many elements that we have to take into account. I've certainly talked to him about several. First, if you are going to generate in self-consumption mode within your home with solar panels, it obviously generates energy and can consume it during the day. But it's just that at night, since there's no sun, you have to be connected to the network. Therefore, we need to have smart power grids so that that can be possible, that there is a storage system and so on. In all this, obviously, we have to deepen the work, and here goes the work of Bidelek 4.0 or that of working with our technology centres and our companies, in order to have an effective energy storage. Then it's not enough for you to put your solar panels in your house, if you don't have a smart enough power grid. Then to make self-consumption, networks are also needed. Then I responded perfectly to that. Secondly, I have referred to concrete examples in which we are working on thermal production with decentralised renewables: biomass, geothermal, hydrothermal. Then we are doing it and we will continue – I told you – in next year's EVE budgets we will increase this use of self-consumption and decentralized production. Second of the elements that are being taken into account. Citizens' communities, as a result of the decree that has been passed and there is greater clarity as to its implementation, I have told you where we are working at this time so that from next year 2020 it will be possible, in fact, to form these communities, to support them and to put them into operation. Then we agree that in addition to centralized energy and actions of different characteristics, we have to work and embark on the path of decentralized energy. But that's not new, it's already done. That a greater effort should be made? We agree. That we want to achieve the European objectives? Also. And that is why, according to that agreement that we have had – it is worth redundancy – in this House to move towards those objectives in the most efficient way possible, we have to implement each and every one of the possible actions. I believe that we are doing so and that we are going to step up our action in that direction. And I think I've answered everything you've asked me. And maybe in the first one I've been a little thicker, I hope this one's a little clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that María del López de Ocariz lópez, the lawmate of the Basque Group, made for the development of Economics, and the chief department of the Sub-States, in the course of the performance of 2019. " López de Ocarariz, madame is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u65	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, Counselor. Surprisingly, with great surprise, we could read on 16 October this month that the Basque Country was not among the autonomous communities that have asked the Ministry for the necessary funds for the advance of the subsidy of the common agricultural policy, the CAP aid, for the 2019 financial year. A 70% advance of the aid authorised by Brussels, which says the call that you publish, since it would be 70% of the basic payment aid, which is around 15 and a half million euros; 70% of the green payment, which is like 8 million euros; 70% of the associated aid, 7 million euros; a total of the simplified scheme, 1,400,000 euros; the incorporation of young people, 70%, which is 550,000 euros. About 32 million, which would be worth paying now in October. But this isn't gonna happen. And, counselor, we are concerned; because you know that precisely these advances in CAP payments coincide with the start of the winter campaign, with plantings, when you pay rents... The expenditure is now concentrated and this progress is very good for them, because it prevents them from borrowing to meet the expenditure that is being incurred at this time. We are talking about an average advance of approximately 17,000 euros per producer. And, Commissioner, we in the People's Group are insisting on this. It is true that we have been doing so for many years, since this started, insisting, because it seems important and relevant to us. We are talking about 32 million euros. It's a lot of money. It is an advance in agricultural activity that avoids added costs that the sector does not need. So, counselor, we want to ask you what is the problem so that this year it does not look like there is going to be that advance? Are we going back to old times? Shall we pay again from December? Madam Counsellor, we ask you to explain this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. To explain, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u67	Eskerrik asko berriro, president anderea. Mrs López de Ocariz, it is true that this is not the first time we have talked about these advances in this rostrum. This is not the first time you have asked me about this subject. This year is a bit special and now I'm going to comment on the concrete reason. The Government's intention is that this aid may be paid in the first week of December, that the advance payment cannot be made, and that it may start in the ordinary period. Why? The reason for not being able to anticipate these aids this year, and you probably know it well, is a rather important computer attack that has suffered HAZI, and as a result, it has affected the computer application of the CAP and has also affected the computer application used by the Member States, since we have a common application. This has affected the development of the processes necessary for the generation of payments by preventing the completion of the controls to be done – you know perfectly well – of eligibility prior to being able to make that advance payment, and they have not been able to be carried out in the way that we would have liked and that we would have liked, and that was being done at other times. Therefore, since it is a necessary requirement to be able to start making the advance payment, this year it will be impossible to make it, because we do not meet the necessary requirements to make it. It will take place as soon as possible and, of course, no later than the first week of December 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u69	Indeed, Commissioner, in 2017 we asked him about this issue, about these subsidies and he said: "Now yes, now we are in a position to have an administrative structure for the management of the Common Agricultural Policy, equipped with the best possible efficiency mechanisms. During 2017 and 2018 it has been possible to pay the CAP advances". I would like to recall that these advances were also possible in the IX. legislature, when we did not count on these supermechanisms of the greatest efficiency, just to remember. She told us in 2017 that she had taken on the Basque Government, together with the deputies, the challenge of having a computer structure of her own, which takes on the whole organisation, both of the deputies and of the government. And, counselor, this computer tool has been hacked. And, counselor, how do we get out of this? What alternative do we have? Farmers and farmers again, pagans. Four years that didn't have the CAP advances waiting for this tool, when we have it, it explodes. We have the Basque Cybersecurity Centre, an organization that promotes cybersecurity in Euskadi. Didn't this save us from being hacked? Counselor, we bet for sure, even if it's not our own. Do you understand me?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u71	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs López de Ocariz, let us not mix absolute security with a tool that can be more or less effective. We have an effective tool that works perfectly under normal conditions. If you show me that there is only one computer system, one, all over the world that is 100% safe, I buy it for you. But at the moment no one, no company, no individual, no administration is 100% safe from certain attacks. We have provided ourselves with sufficient tools, all administrations have specialized companies to collaborate and help to prevent, as far as possible, and put in place measures to act quickly, but of course there is not a single organisation, not a single system that is 100% safe. That does not mean – and it must not be mixed in any way – that the developed computer tool is neither efficient nor functioning and, of course, allows us to equip ourselves or has allowed us to equip ourselves with a much better system in order to be able to meet these payments under normal conditions. Now, given the situation this year – not because of inefficiency but because of a computer problem – we are not going to be able to act. I would like to comment on this and repeat it: the first week of December will be paid as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "To ask you, you know, about Martín, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Environmental, the Planting Land, and the Housing Department, about the state of rent." Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u73	Yes, thank you. The difficulties of youth to emancipate themselves, families who cannot face the rise of rent, evictions because they cannot pay rents... This is one of the biggest problems facing Basque society: the difficulty of having a roof. Given this situation, how do you rate the latest data on average rental income?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u74	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u75	Thank you, President. Mr Martínez, I think it is not my job to value data but to make decisions based on what those data indicate, either by adapting policies that were already in place or by taking new measures. The results of the Euskadi Housing Market Statistics allow us to have, for the first time, a reliable picture of the cost of rental contracts. We are not talking about estimates or offer prices, but about real rents paid each month by tenants of collective housing in the Basque municipalities. Because the data comes, as you know, from the exploitation of the more than 46,000 contracts deposited since 2016. The data, in this sense, are objective data and are those that are. What the EMA indicates, in short, is that the average free rental price in Euskadi is substantially lower than that resulting from the indicators of the real estate portals and the survey on real estate supply that we have been doing to alleviate the absence of reliable information. But it also tells us that its importance is burdensome for many people, especially in the capitals and, especially, in Donostia and Bilbao.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u76	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u77	Counselor, you know better than I do. According to its own data, the rental in Euskadi has risen 178.50 euros in recent years. 1,053 on average in Euskadi, 1,231 in Gipuzkoa. We know this new index that the Government has taken out, that actual monthly income of 651 euros, Donostia 859, Bilbao 724 and Gasteiz 593. Now, you just need to take a quick look, you said that was real. I'm going to give you another reality. The main real estate portal where rents are looked at in Euskadi, for example, Donostia, according to the rent that encrypts your index we find 34 houses, you have them on this map. 34 houses according to the price that the Government says: Egia, 750 euros, 50 meters; Anoeta, 850 euros, 49 meters; or Casco Viejo, 720 euros, 20 meters. Or we have the case of Bilbao, 26 dwellings according to the price of the index you have said. We have them here. 26 houses on this map. Here are the points: Bilbao La Vieja, 700 euros, 40 square meters; or San Francisco, 600 euros, 40 square meters. And we have the last case, even more paradoxical, which is Gasteiz's. This one's even faster. None. None. The search has not yielded any results depending on the price you say it says that index. Obviously, of course, it is true, but explain to us now how we agree that actual monthly income data with this photograph, which I think is more real, of Basques and Basques when they are going to look for a rent in the free market. You know that the reality of housing in Euskadi is of a cruelty that does not allow you to lose a second. While you're trying to convince us that it's not so much the rental bubble, there are thousands of people, there are thousands of young people who can't access housing and there are hundreds of families who have trouble paying for housing. Mr Arriola, I have been telling you here for three years, if you and your department were really concerned about the situation that thousands of people are suffering in Euskadi, you – the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi – would be taking action to punish those who impose abusive rents. They would be encouraging the rental of public housing and not, as they are doing now, building still with public money, twice as many houses to buy as to rent. They would also be doing something to mobilize, in effect, affordable empty rental housing. And they would not question, as you did a few days ago, that it is necessary to limit rental prices by law and that your proposals are more viable and effective. Here is a sample of how viable and effective they are. Let us not speak, for example, of Gaztelagun. Because I don't know if you're worried or not, but I think your department has a perfect communicative strategy, but it lacks the same effectiveness to make public policies. I will refer to Mr Andueza's speech this morning, happy 2015, Mr Arriola, the year in which the law was passed. I remind you that we are in 2019, almost at the end, four years after the adoption of this law. It is time to comply with the law once and for all, and to put all its mechanisms in place. People can't wait.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u78	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u79	Mr. Martinez, what do you want me to tell you? I don't make anything up. I transfer the statistics with objective information that is based on a reality that, whether we commit ourselves or not, is there, which is the analysis of 46,000 rental contracts deposited in the territorial housing delegations, where are the bonds that refer to these rental contracts. And the exploitation of that information gives us what it gives us. And that's the reality. If we don't want to see her, then, anyway, you'll tell me. A reality which, I have said, has to do, very relatively, with what is the offer itself. The offer is one thing and the reality of the real prices that are being paid in Euskadi is another. And that is the one perfectly recorded by the housing delegations. And having the EMA does not solve the problem of rent shortage, of course. A need that occurs on a double basis, on the one hand, because there is little supply and because in addition the prices are high and are beyond the capacity of an important part of the citizenry. I recognized him. That the actual average income is significantly lower than was estimated, is no consolation. But knowing it is a great help to fine-tune our rental housing policies. Recognising this does not at all mean that we are not concerned about the problem, nor do we put on warm cloths; on the contrary, it gives us the basis to better modulate our programmes. And, for example, it seems that we were not so misguided when we adjusted the maximum prices of the Bizigune programme, to capture more empty housing for social rent, or when we reviewed the ASAP programme, and neither in the review we are doing under the conditions of the Gaztelagun programme to facilitate the emancipation of young people. And now, moreover, this information on average incomes will allow us to fine-tune the articulation of the tax proposal to encourage the accessible rent that we have presented to the outlaws. The information serves something: to make decisions, to articulate measures, to make proposals, to adjust programmes and to try to be as successful as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u80	Thank you, chief physician, Mr. Arriola. Twelve points in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the Basque Society of Japan, Javier Ruiz de Arbulus Cerio Espulka, made from the head of the Environmental Plants, and Housing Houses, about the draft of a new-new apartment." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. and Mrs. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mr. Arriola, a few weeks ago I was having breakfast at home and watching the press, while cooking part of what was going to be consumed that day by my family. I like to cook and it's a task that we share most of the people we're here. I find the following news, I read the headline in a medium of great circulation in the Basque Country and says the headline: "The Basque Government wants men to enter the kitchens". Titular success, because I quickly started to see the development of that news, because I was very curious. I begin to read the news and find that this holder corresponds to the statements of a senior head of his department, who says that they have already drawn up a draft of the decree that will govern the minimum spaces and measures that housing must have in the future in the Basque Country. I said, well, this is part of your competition. It's okay for them to work on those things because it's their obligation. And they're also doing it from the focus of the gender perspective. And I said, for that is also good, because it is a legal obligation and part of the commitment that his Government has repeatedly put out aloud. So, well, that didn't sound bad to me. And I see you've decided initially on that draft. – all these are the words of the head of his department – that blind spaces, dangerous areas must be eliminated to avoid attacks on women. I said, well, it's okay, yes, always, it will also be to the children, to the men, to the elderly, to all who live in those homes. I did not understand what the gender perspective was, but rather the security of all citizens. But what draws my attention most is that it says that they have collaborated, they have started to collaborate with experts on equality and that these experts on equality tell them that we need to increase the size of the kitchens for men to enter the kitchens and help. So that already seemed to me a little rancid, sleepy, old, bad. There was a tufillo. I didn't like it. And that's why I'm asking you today, Mr. Arriola, do you share those statements from your spokesman? Is that the star measure of that draft decree? Because if that's the star measure, fear gives me what you can propose for the birth increase, how will the dorm spaces be. But my question is, Mr. Arriola, do you share those statements and that idea that you have transferred a senior head of your department on what future homes in Euskadi have to be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo, do you like cooking? I like it, too, and I cook. And besides, I'm not going to say it, but as much as 80% of the food that is made in my house, I cook it, as much as I do, but, well, that's not the case. You are a serious person and you know that to be clearly informed of an issue it is not good to stay in the foam of some news, but to go to the bottom, to what you have actually said about the future decree of habitability and standards of design of the housing and accommodation endowments, both the director and the vice councillor of Housing, and to what the draft itself says with its explanatory statement and its annexes. I have listened to the public interventions of the offices of our department and I have to tell you that your statements are in keeping with the content and spirit of this rule. Apart from some biased, light and frivolous interpretations that have been made, the opinions I have been able to see from very competent architects, interiorists, designers and urban sociologists, that is, from people who know well the question we are talking about, have, as a rule, been very positive with the orientation and contents of the draft. On the subject of all this, by the way, what has happened is that we talk, as never before in our country, about what housing should be like, which is a positive thing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u84	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u85	Mr. Arriola, I haven't had a chance to know the development of that draft. And it is that these statements do not come precisely from the investigative work of the journalists, but from where they come from is from the statements that have been made to sell that draft. Not that it is already done, it is not that the decree will be brought here, it is not that it will be published or approved, but it is simply a draft and you have launched that idea. And to me the idea did seem frankly frivolous and far from reality, because you leave aside the different family models that we have in our community. And it is also far from the reality of couples and families living in Euskadi. And I don't want to be frivolous, because if I had wanted to be frivolous, counselor, I would have brought you here the hundreds or thousands of pytorreous comments that are on social media or many other statements that have been made in different media by experts in the field. That the draft is necessary? I don't doubt it. That the draft is correct? I don't doubt it. What I want to know, and you have not answered me as usual in the first speech, is what your opinion is about that kind of statement, about that line of argument. If you are in favour or if you are against it. The goal is to talk about your draft, you've already done it. Perhaps, as his spokesman told us the other day, the important thing in politics is gestures. And it is not important to implement the budget headings of 10% of your department's budget, but you have had the political detail of creating that heading to sell that position on a specific government problem. Faced with that situation, I insist on my question and see if I'm lucky this time. Do you agree with that line of argument or do you disagree?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u87	Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, I replied in my first speech. I don't know if you've heard me. Well, it's on tape. I insist, to criticize or even to comment, it is advisable to inform yourself before. Much attention has been focused, as if it were a great novelty, on the issue of the minimum size of the kitchens, 7 meters. As it turns out this is the size that is already required in Euskadi for official protective housing, look at you. It is the same dimension that appears in the building ordinances of Bilbao and many other localities of Euskadi. What the decree seeks, which is habitability and standards of housing design, is to unify a dispersed norm and align it with the spirit of the Housing Act 2015. And of course, it incorporates the standards of comfort, health, accessibility, energy efficiency, versatility and adaptability required today to a space in which much of our life runs. And yes, the gender perspective has also been introduced as applied in the land management guidelines and as called for in the Equality Act adopted in this Parliament. I already know that some people hear the word "gender" causes rashes. I don't know, but it happens that if you don't look at some things with that approach, with that perspective, you may not realize when designing the portal of a building, corridors or other areas of common use where you have to avoid blind spots or angles that create situations of insecurity, especially for women. Those who have developed the project are not naive, not Taliban, but highly trained people. I assure you. No one claims that giving a kitchen a larger size will magically solve the unequal distribution of household tasks, no. It is not a question of imposing anything, but of favoring that in that space there may be physically more than one person cooking, eating, scrubbing, putting the washing machine or whatever. We are faced with a draft decree that has not yet even gone through the process of public information and allegations. People who have cast disqualifications from hearing in "kidnapping" mode have an opportunity to read their contents and propose any modifications they consider appropriate. And I sincerely invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask questions about the demand made by Leire Pindo Bustate EH Team to encourage the public funds and economics." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u89	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Subaz. We've heard of you and other voices lately, the head-master of the Albedere, proclaiming the need to open the opportunity to encourage the public expense and investment to re-establish the economy. Welcome, I must say, welcome to the advocacy of politics in order to shake the economy, and to respond firmly to the ecological, industrial, and socioboral challenges, which have so often been proclaimed from the Combat. Let's make the way, Mr. Chief. We have to face the limits imposed by the state because the future is today. Because we have to make up our mind to answer the future. I'm afraid the delay is because the door knocks. Counselor, my question is this. In the face of the most obvious slowdown in the economy, is the real impetus of public spending and investment strategic for your Government? Are you going to put all the tools in place for this?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u91	Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Mrs. Pinedo, though I am not in the common language what you say to her was your question, I agree with the will of your question. I mean, this government wants to make a real bet on the investment, and it's supposed to be a strategic policy that's being made around it. Taking back the exact words of the Vice-Adviser, with which, by the way, I completely agree, they say that in the case of Europe a thorough review of the entire stability framework is required. And this is an arduous task that takes time, so it would be advisable to make the current stability pact more flexible and, at the same time, to boost some sufficiently large European stabilisation instrument. That is why I would like to take this question again to state our position on the moment when fiscal consolidation is taking place in Europe, where voices are already being heard calling for a clear relaxation of the rigorous austerity policies that have led to a slowdown in spending policies, and above all in investment. I do not say this, says the European Fiscal Council itself in its report, where it intends to strengthen incentives for investments that can stimulate growth by taking advantage of the low-interest scenario. In this regard, this Government is making significant efforts within the margins on which it can act. As you know, we have taken full advantage of these last two years with packages of 54 and 98 million, in 2018 and 2019 respectively, to boost sustainable investment. But we have done so because we have complied with the rules of stability and financial sustainability. And this way of acting is something that you and I do not agree with 100%, as you are in favour – in line with the wording of the non-law proposal presented last September – of repealing the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability, and I, however, advocate for your reform to proceed with the flexibility of your peremptory rules. You were on the side of adapting the cost rule in a similar action in November last November, as well as the adaptations necessary in the organisation of the law of observation and of the maintenance of Finance. I agree with this reflection, and in Europe they suggest a voice more expert than ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u92	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u93	Thank you, chief physician. I'm glad you agree at least sometimes. Look, in Germany, in a world where it's a world champion of fortune, there's a lot of voices that are defending against zero mantrate. Look, an example of the Berlin Institute for Economic Research says: "Hanging on to the zero deficit as an end in itself would be a fundamental mistake, saving when the economy is weakened only increases problems." And that's exactly what we have been claiming since EH Bildu, because the recession is here and we have to fight it. We have means for that, Mr. Counsellor, we have means for it, let us use them, let us use them, because tomorrow it may be late to do so. Because what prevents us from moving forward in fiscal policies are the rules that the State, I insist, imposes, and you have. They are the Budget Stability Act, as you have said, the rule of spending, the zero deficit because yes, and all the limitations that the State imposes while they, the State, do not meet their own limitations. We often hear the difference, the search for it. So, Mr Councilman, we demand and exercise the possibility of using all the tools available to boost public spending and investment for the benefit of Basque citizens, for the benefit of the future of our country. Because the Corsicans that the state imposes on us "Because you so called them, Corses," they cannot be invariable, they cannot be unbreakable. Let us put into practice our financial autonomy, that much praised financial autonomy, let us put it into practice and demand from the State the tools that our economy has, because it has them, to respond with solvency to what is coming, because regret is not enough. And I insist, tomorrow may be late. Counselor, let's make that path among all of us. Let's make that way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u95	I'm also glad, Mrs. Pindo, when we find a way to approach. Really. And as I said in the first intervention, I think we agree on the fundamentals and that is the important thing, that is, in the kindness of betting for some reactivation of public spending on investments, but within the rules of play, budgetary discipline and financial stability. And advocating for a less stajanovist reading of the spending rule, than in supervital moments can turn out, and in fact it turns out – as you have already said – unnecessarily corsetating. Let's try to solve it. I'm sure we'll be able to find a reasonable rendezvous, and that we've been able to propose a new way of facing public expense here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u96	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "Interra, Juana de Bengohechea Euska, a member of the Popula team, made to the head of the Board of Education, a necessary service for the students of the next school."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u97	Thank you, Madam President. The theme that brings us here today is a long-distance theme. This is an issue on which we have insisted, which has been discussed and discussed in this Parliament, both in the plenary session and in the education committees many times. Therefore, allow me to explain the most recent background. I'm not going back. Look, on October 18, 2018, now more than a year ago, this plenary session approved a non-legislative proposal on the subject of the transport of minors and even with a point on the elderly, from 16 to 18 years old, to schools. Because it's a problem that has arisen over and over again. And in the third point of that GNP, it was said directly, the Government was urged "to initiate inter-institutional collaboration to ensure in the 2019-2020 school year the transport of pupils from rural environments aged between 16 and 18 years, both from Bachelor's and Vocational Training, to their educational centres". Why? Because, of course, we know that the department's obligation ends when compulsory education is completed. But of course, what young man in our country, which girl or boy can enter the labour market with minimal guarantees of employability and success, simply with the school graduate, having completed the ESO? We all, I believe, recognize that further education is necessary, whether in Vocational Training or in Bachelor's degree, to then open up other paths. And we have to bear in mind that these young people are of age when they are not yet older. They're under the age of 18. Therefore, even if the obligation ends for the Department of Education in Secondary Education, we urged him, because of his lack of full competence, to collaborate with the deputies, who have competence in transport, to organize a system to solve the problem of these young people between the ages of 16 and 18. Well, we had the satisfaction of knowing –because there are satisfactions, it must be acknowledged – that on February 18, 2019, the Department of Education signed a convention with the Bizkaia Provincial Council on the subject. That is, it complied with what was proposed in the GNP, in the non-legislative proposal. Thus, this agreement is entitled: Agreement of collaboration between the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and the Foral Diputación de Bizkaia for the provision of the school transport service to students of post-compulsory education. A joy. I personally always ask the department to give me joy. And this is a joy. But of course, we say, with Bizkaia is very good. But is Bizkaia the province or territory that has a most important problem in this matter? And the truth is, we don't think so. Of course, Bizkaia is the most populated, with a million and peak thousand inhabitants, but it has a multitude of municipalities that, due to the number of inhabitants in them, already have an obligation to have their own transport service, which does not happen in Gipuzkoa, which does not happen in Álava. So, let's see, it is a joy because we have achieved the least – in our opinion – difficult, the least onerous, which is to reach an agreement with a deputy that already has many municipalities that have their own transport, or that live very close to others that have their own transport. I looked a while ago at the list of municipalities in Bizkaia that have more than 20,000 inhabitants. There's a good number, because I don't know if I've had 14. No, more, more than 14. So, things aren't that hard there. Our inquiry is to know what is being done, what is planned with regard to Gipuzkoa and with regard to Alava, because there the situation is much more difficult. Look, they say Gipuzkoa is the smallest territory in Euskadi. I always say that's not true. The problem with Gipuzkoa is that it is wrinkled, that it is wrinkled, that it is very mountainous, that is, on a map to go from A to B it may seem 2 cm, but as to go from A to B it has one to go up to a summit and go down again, because it turns out that if we extend it would be like 8 cm. Gipuzkoa is not the smallest territory. It is a wrinkled territory, where transport is much more complicated and more difficult. I'm sure all the Gipuzcoans here will agree with me. Then there are four valleys, four valleys, the Gipuzcoan territory are four valleys surrounded by mountains. Well, and then we're going to Alava, our largest territory. Because he's crushed, mostly. Then, our largest territory, but with the smallest population. Of three hundred and a thousand inhabitants 75% live in Vitoria. And it is the municipality that worries us, because, probably because they are not the valleys of Gipuzkoa – water was one of the first forces that pushed the industrialization and the company – traditionally, it has had an agrarian economy. And I am speaking, of course, until the mid-twentieth century sure. Sure. And why is it important to root people in their territory? Well, it's important for the following reasons. People on their territory, first, maintain the traditional economy, which is the primary sector, and which, of course now with a globalized world, seems to be the least important. But no, it's the livelihood of the rest of the economies. They maintain local cultures, they maintain local culture. Every municipality, every town, every gang, has its own idiosyncrasy, its way of expressing itself. Moreover, they are sometimes accentuated, because they are accentuated in contrast to the next gang or in contrast to the next municipality. Each gang, each territory, each municipality has a heritage, a historical and sometimes historical-cultural heritage that with depopulation will be lost. The Romanesque of Álava we don't have in the other territories. We don't have it. And what's going to happen to that Romanesque? And even Gothic civil architecture has much more Álava than the rest of the territories. And with the depopulation that goes away. And what is needed to keep people in their municipality? For it is necessary, first, in these days, the Internet, which we know by a previous intervention that is being enhanced, but for companies, for I do not know what, not for citizens; and, of course, basic services of education, health care and above all good public transport. In this country, in Euskadi, I do not know why we give up the railways to a large extent and get on the road. But before that, there were railways that reached practically all the villages. My personal opinion is that we should get back all those trains and little trains that were going all over the place. But it's okay. We have turned on the roads, less sustainable, more polluting, etcetera, etcetera. But please, let's improve communications, because if we don't, we won't be able to root people in their territory. Thank you very much. For what I am asking the councilwoman, after all this, is for you to please tell me what you are going to do about the agreements with the other Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u98	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u99	Good day, Mr. President of the legislature, chiefs, members of the legislature. Mrs. Bengochea, on the 18th of October 2018, this legislature accepted the correction you speak of in your justification, and the other proposal, as the Board of Education confirmed in the 14th of October 2019. So I won't repeat it again and you said it yourself if we all know him. In this first intervention, I would like to point out that since this initiative had been accepted on October 18th, the department has been working in various ways in order to respond to this initiative. First of all, in the popular Euskal Group, together with the Podemos and the Basque People assembled, in the section of the 18th of October, 18th, 2018, all explanations were given concerning the zeal of the school were given. The chairman of Administration and Services was in the Board of Education on December 17th, 2018. Important data on transport during this committee scene (recations, routes, exceptions, steps of the school transport, individual calling, vets, opportunity to make terms with other administrations, etc.). Since you have approved it more than once, the subject is not easy. Today, for example, the supplementary services of education fill the necessary role of ERTAIN, within the system of assistance or compensation which has been established to ensure the principle of equality and equity to enter into education. It's just to remind you of a few numbers. This service transports 21,000 children every day into 542 routes, with total security security security security security security security and no incident. In the effective application of the 69/2015 Decree, its strength, its improvement options, its repeated permission, and the necessity of determining the new requests and its needs, have identified the subsidies, distantiations, fields, special treatment of the fields, and service for the distribution of the two-year-old students. As was moved at the appearance on December 17, 2018, based on the experience accumulated through this monitoring commission – created in article 12 of the current decree – from the Department of Education we have understood that the provision of the school transport service requires new regulation, all in order to improve and guarantee to the entire student access to the complementary school transport service, factor that conditions the proper exercise of the right to a quality education on conditions of equality. To this end, this department is preparing and processing a draft decree to amend the current wording of Decree 69/2015 of 19 May on the school transport of students from public non-university educational institutions of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in order to incorporate basic vocational training and two-year students. This is at the final stage after receiving the report of the Legal Advisory Commission this week. Apart from the work being done within the normative framework, the department has continued to work and all exceptional situations have been brought to the follow-up committee with the aim of responding to the needs, assumptions and case studies that are being raised in the various territories. In particular, with regard to exceptional authorisations that do not meet the distance requirement, it should be noted that all applications received have been met and that they are largely in response to a double case study: rural areas requiring differentiated treatment, and routes which, due to issues related to urbanization, lighting, etc., present particular difficulties on a walk. In addition, in order to facilitate management and inform families and as it was moved in the December appearance, this monitoring commission, since the beginning of this year 2019, has decided to publish all those exceptionalities on the website in an exercise of absolute transparency. By resolution of 28 January 2019 of the Director of Economic Management, the report of exceptional authorisations ratified in the school transport monitoring commission dated 22 January 2019 was ordered to be published. All exceptional authorizations in school transport on the basis of article 6.2 (e) of Decree 69/2015, currently in force by historical territory, are available in the section on school transport of our departmental website. Nevertheless, the department has not only worked for the change of decree and the attention of exceptional cases. On the other hand, he's working with the organization's co-worker too. By the order of this parliament, on March 4th, 2019, they signed a contract about the school of the students of the College of Education after the necessity of the Euskozo and the Inductal Forkai. The agreement authorized to transport students from college next door to the Red World School. In some cases general transportation service, in this case Biscaibus, is not suitable, either to satisfy the wants of the students who are obliged to attend the educational centres, in accordance with their proper education. The purpose of the agreement is to face these cases. According to the measures which attend the townships of Ispaster, Mendexa, Amoroth, and Humanderhood, these students will be able to use the service of the school-carry which is now at hand (in fact, the second and necessary education of Child Education, which is a service of carrying the disciples within their internal institution). This is why the Board of Education will allow them to use this service, as long as there are always unsatisfied seats and necessary duties. After the agreement has been signed, the students who aim for it can already use service for the day. The New World's Department of Education and the Adorfiction of Biscay, the Motability and the Cohesium Department have shown a desire to study other situations like this, and the two institutions signed it by examining the possibility of opening the agreement. In the same situation as in their historical domains, in which the zeal of the school does not satisfy the needs of these students, it will suggest the means of applying the same measure to the rest of the forum, as the basis of the experience obtained in this treaty. And we're almost with the contacts.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. De Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Look, counselor, one thing I'm usually glad about is that we prepare them from the same sources. So, being the only one, or good I have all the help of my group, but being especially responsible, because seeing that I use the same sources that the whole department uses fills me with satisfaction. Let's see. But if I have already told you that I am very, very, very happy that you have signed with the Bizkaia Provincial Council and that it has been a joy. But the problem is that we have the other two parliaments. I take the floor that they will soon be resolved. But look, the new decree and everything we've done and the best intentions don't solve concrete problems. And excuse me, look, I have here a document signed by the president of the Añana gang on September 20, 2019, a month ago. And he's talking about transportation at mandatory ages, not even 16 or 18, not at mandatory ages. Do you know what he's telling us? That truly, as you say, has been studied every particular case and then had a line that was a 59-seat bus, that departed from Ribabellosa at 8:15, and another line that departed at 7:30 –20 places. And he says that after two weeks of operation – and we're talking about this course – users of the second line are slow to go to the center for more than an hour. One hour in school transport is the maximum period set by the same department. Then, a line unfolds, which is what I interpret from there you say to me: "We have studied all the concrete case studies and applied a solution". Well, this doesn't solve because the president of the Añana gang tells us again that the journeys last an hour and a quarter. Then, an hour and a quarter of a trip and an hour and a quarter of a trip for children – because here they are referring to children who are still in compulsory education. Moreover, the poor man, who is a man who sees himself trying to respect everything and such, proposes alternatives. And it literally says: "In order to propose alternatives, we have contacted a taxi driver from the region who would be willing to make the journey Estavillo-Añastro-Nanclares de la Oca. This approach would make it possible for the carriers of Ribabellosa, who fill the 59-seat bus, to go straight to Nanclares de la Oca and for the carriers of line 2 to unfold, allowing the times to be reduced to less than 40 minutes." Look, I really don't take credit for it. I'm sure they've taken the whole case, tried to solve it. But here we have the president of the Añana gang who on September 21 tells us that it doesn't work. And the poor man even proposes alternatives. Discurse, that is, he is not a person who simply complains; he is a person who speaks. Then, counselor, knowing that it is not an easy topic, our group really encourages and kindly urges you to solve this problem because it is basic. A child from compulsory education cannot spend an hour and a quarter on the bus to get to school. And here they don't even talk about 16 and 18 years old, that those get on the bus when there are free spaces left. We have to solve this problem. And that's the last thing I'm gonna tell you. I know you'll work hard, but it's going so slow, so slow. – so many proposals that this group has made, that we have to thank that some of them are they have incorporated into the department's work– but it is so slow and children's lives vary so quickly that generations are losing their solutions. It's usually said that palace things go slowly. Well, things in the Basque government department are slow, slow, slow. Please take into account the variability of the lives of children and adolescents in a very short time, because that is truly paramount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u102	Thank you, Mrs. De Bengochea. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u103	Mrs Bengoechea, in response to your concerns and questions, and as I mentioned in my previous speech, we are aware of the need to move forward by incorporating new measures and we are doing so. And as we have also commented, the follow-up committee continues to analyse all the case studies that are being put to it and looking for solutions. Well, this last one that you have raised, well, I imagine it will also have been analysed and, if not, will be analysed. However, the reason for the inquiry was the transport of the post-compulsory teachings in the other two territories, after having signed the agreement first with the Bizkaia Foral Diputation, and I think it is interesting to know the subject in its magnitude to have a little more information. That is why I would like to give you some data to focus your context. As I pointed out in the previous speech, we are faced with the provision of a daily service that transports more than 21,000 boys and girls through 542 routes with absolute security guarantees and without any impact. According to the agreement signed with the Foral Diputación de Bizkaia, they can currently benefit from the service of school transport organized by the Department of Education, the student of post-compulsory education enrolled in public institutes and residents in the municipalities of Ispaster, Mendexa, Amoroto and Gizaburuaga, fulfilling two premises: that there are free places and that they go to the educational center that belongs to them for the itinerary established. In this case, for example, the IES Lekeitio. In this school year, for quantifying the subject a little, in 2019-2020, there are a total of 27 students from the aforementioned municipalities who come to the IES Lekeitio, center that corresponds to them by itinerary. That is, of Ispaster nine pupils and pupils, of Mendexa five pupils and pupils, of Amoroto nine and of Gizaburuaga four pupils and pupils. As I explained to you, these numbers are very small and exceptional cases, but the Board of Education is repairing the subject through co-workerships and means of transport. In this respect I inform you that we shall continue to work on those works which I have told you about, for it serves to improve the educational service, and they will certainly recover and clear up the application's hypotheses. So we'll get more efficiently and the administration will facilitate our relationship with families and school directors. It is the spirit of the Board of Education to examine actions similar in all other historical countries, when the school-carry does not fulfil the wants of such students, and to consider the experience they have received in this treaty as the basis of this treaty. And as I said to you, we've already contacted other disputations. As I have said at first, it must be considered that the education authorities, founded on the principles of cohesion and justice, have the duty of setting up the conditions which give the right to education of quality, and the supplementary service of the school-carry is established as an establishment of primary obedience, and that of strengthening the policy and family and labor of the university, in order to fulfil the duties which this government has to perform with its commitment and family.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja Popula Group to the head of the Educational department, to support the center of the EHU and the prisoners of the network." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u105	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, counselor, counselors. Good morning again. Well, this is a question about a piece of information that was released just over a month ago. The University of the Basque Country, through its Interdisciplinary Center for Legal Studies Ikasmirak, together with the network of support to prisoners of ETA Sare, because they decided to work together, right? They decided to work together and have set up a strategy of their own, their own, together, for what? For to make a report of contempt of the Spanish authorities – that of Sare does not miss us but of the UPV already yes – before the Human Rights Council of the UN, of the United Nations. And in a report of just eight pages of content, they are carried out as always, in relation to the strategy of the left abertzale and of the support to the prisoners of ETA, because serious complaints to the Government of Spain, accusations of non-compliance, of the compliance of the Prison Law in a crooked way... And in that sense, what we want is your assessment. We believe that the prison policy is respected with respect to the laws and decisions of the courts, but how does the collaboration of the University of the Basque Country, which is a public medium, value this collaboration with a body of parties to disqualify the rule of law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u106	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u107	Andrea president. Mr. Barrio, in this Chamber, as we have said in other cases, I want to remind you of the university, and that he has a complete autonomy to act as far as the Basque University. He is a autonomy organization with legal personality and powers. In this respect it is proper to remind us that he works in the field of instruction, enquiry, and the transfer of knowledge. As to this latter sphere, he assigns a great number of contracts and treaties with the public and private institutions, as the means of transfering the results to society by the several kinds of inquiry. Thus, based on the society of the university, on respect for its superior directoric and autonomy, and also on the respect of this legislature, I have requested a superior director of the University of the Basque Country to give me information about the question of your question, and I shall give the following particulars of this information. According to the information given by UUPV/EHU, the Student Investigations of Juritical Education are completed by research investigators of high research. Of his principal works there are these: Human rights, the general and peculiar law of administration, and the right of environment. In point of fact, this centre has published three editions of the systematic examination of the Human Rights to the Word of Europe, published by the celebrated Juritical Jurital Institute, and many writers of mongraphies and scientific articles, which have the greatest influence on the legal camp. It is also under the care of this Centre that an officer of fundamental rights and even of an officer of the public power is responsible. In fact, the center of the school has organized the rights and practices of freedom and of prison correction. He has also taken care to arrange, in like manner, other activities concerning men who are in a weak state, strangers, minorities, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u109	Thank you, Counselor. Yes, but he has not answered how he values the use of UPV to attack the rule of law and State institutions in this way. I have also consulted the Ikasmirak page. So I beg you to move, as a university counselor who is, at least our discontent and the fact that we do not understand that role of the UPV as facilitator of the left abertzale. It puts him rather, with this kind of action and reports, closer to the left abertzale to the UPV than to the victims of terrorism. It's just that the UPV is not a lawyer, it's not a legal advice. UPV is a public instrument, a public environment, a public service. And right now the UPV is inside the media Brunette and the Brunette of nationalism against the State as well. It has been placed in that direction, with some actions of these characteristics. A strategy to disqualify our laws, to disqualify our public policies. An obsession with using public means to attack, of course, State institutions and their norms. And now it's up to the UPV as well. It is a curious alliance with Sare, with the citizen network supporting ETA prisoners, to criticize the Spanish state once again. Besides, the report is that you have mistakes, you have mistakes. I don't have time for details now, but there are mistakes in that report. Moreover, such a report should assess the pronouncements of the European Court of Human Rights at different times, and the most recent one on 28 May 2019. The UPV's report with Sare is from May, and the European Court of Human Rights has declared inadmissible a recent appeal by an ETA terrorist gang prisoner; and it already understands that the dispersion policy is justified and protected by law and did not violate fundamental rights. That doesn't analyze the sentence. This means that the UPV lacks proportionality and objectivity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u110	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u111	Mr. Barrio. As I indicated in my first speech, and as the UPV/EHU has transferred to us, the Interdisciplinary Center for Legal Studies Ikasmirak is made up of a group of researchers with a broad research background in the field of human rights. Within this trajectory, the Ikasmirak Centre has organized congresses and conferences on the rights of persons deprived of their liberty and prison law, in the same way as it has organized other activities on vulnerable persons, foreigners, minorities, etc. The study on the rights of prisoners and other groups in vulnerable situations, contracts with various entities that may establish research groups, as well as the dissemination of the results of such investigations, falls within the framework of the normality of university activity. I insist. All this research and study comes within the framework of the normality of university activity and we cannot forget that, according to the statutes of the UPV/EHU, this – the UPV/EHU – enjoys full autonomy and has its own personality and legal capacity to act.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Reformation, Rebeka Ubera Aranz, and EH, made to the head of the Board of Education, concerning the conduct of the Education Department on the social network." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u113	Good morning. But until then, you're the head of the Board of Education, and you've been avoiding the carefulness of what's up to now as head of Education. But your expressions of this week have shown that you are still running away from your responsibilities and your cares. Think how clearly your escape has been revealed, that the Council for Work Relations has also given you a toke yesterday, remarking yesterday about the role of the Board of Education, the function of the Board of Education at the meeting. I mean, Mrs. Uriart, you can't go to the meeting like you said at the time you said you're from the world to see the cyclists, but you're from the cycling team. You're the boss, so you're a part. You are a part of the conflict, and therefore you must be a part of the solution, as the Council of Relations said, and as we have told you a thousand times in this house. The financial and the Norse are in your hands. You're the main target. It's you. So, mend it. Yeah, yeah, you put funding on it. You put funding and frame on it. Then en fine. Look, it's just that I'm just saying, "I'm just saying, "I'm going to be the leader of the Tourisms and the Commercials." There was a conflict in the host 2008 and you know what he did? He took the leadership, negotiated and solved the conflict in a di-la-da. Of course, we were standing in front of the High World of Tourism, and if there are any summits we don't have in education, then the leadership seems to be abandoned. So it's will. It's a matter of will. When the will exists, and if there is no will, it is not done. That's how we keep going. Look, you met in January. You met with the unions, and you also brought a plan. You took a plan to keep the job, and with an old-fashioned suggestion, that's for sure. But from that moment on, in March, you turned your back on the order you'd received in this house and now you've been making ridiculous statements. If the Big Brother of Mia calls me like you're not a Jamaican, I'll go if he calls me. Where's your leader? Where's director of the Board of Education, leadership, responsibility? The Board of Education, what will the Board of Education do? The Board of Education, will the Board of Education change its behavior from Monday to Monday?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u115	President anderea, berriz was equal on. Mrs. Ubera, you say so many things that she asked your question. On the one hand, you say we haven't fulfilled our agreement in this year's march. But not only that, you say, we didn't take any initiative to solve the case. Well, it's not true what you're saying. No. And you know it's not true. You well know that the Department of Education from the beginning is working on aspects that could help overcome this labor conflict. As you already know, because we have forwarded it to you in writing in response to a question similar to this one you have raised today. The department has met with both the employer and the unions of the concerted social initiative centres, with more than 30 meetings being held. Not one, over 30. The department has made a firm proposal that addresses the possibility of relocation of staff affected by the decrease in classrooms, as well as of rejuvenation of staff, favoring the relief contract. In addition, the Department has repeatedly shown its support for the parties to accept the possibility of intermediation that can be called upon by any of the parties concerned in order to facilitate a way of meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u117	Mrs. Orriart, what do you call working? If you'd been working so far, it'd be all right. So, what happened not to solve? Look, we've always had to drag you, year after year, to get answers to the struggles of education, and drag you away every year. But neither in the first nor in the second, nor in the third, have we succeeded in solving matters. It's always late and when the problem's rotten, it's always like this. And we only hope and ask, this time, to renew the contract that has not been renewed for ten years, to sign and settle this conflict once and for all, and you to be the essential part of that triangle. Being a part of it, really working. And really working means will, guidance, responsibility, leadership and conversation. And I'm afraid the Board of Education hasn't shown that before.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u119	Ubera anderea, I refer to the facts. We've had more than 30 meetings from the start of the year with all our employees, the patricians, all the unions, and even the families. More than 30 discreet meetings. But not just that. As we said at the beginning of the year, they've been on their way up to the sorghum like public deserts. In this year's concert call, the 2.25 % increase in payroll applied to both teachers in public education and the concerted centres, which has led to an increase of 27.5 million euros, to be added to the 0.25 % recently agreed, which is now applied to payroll. The salary equalization of the compulsory secondary education faculty has been given; the amount of the call for educational support specialists has been increased, together with an increase in the weekly commitment, which has amounted to an additional EUR 2.5 million; in addition to a firm proposal that addresses the possibility of relocating staff who are affected by the decrease in classrooms, as well as of rejuvenation of staff, favoring the relief contract. These are facts, they are actions that the Government has been putting in place and putting forward. So what you said is not true. Don't mix society, don't confuse education unit. We have put in place, we have put on the table proposals that should be positively assessed with the aim of facilitating the lines of work that can help in the approximation and the search for possible solutions. Proposals and facts, Mrs Ubera. I would like to reiterate, as I have said on other occasions, that this is undoubtedly a complex situation. It is therefore essential that we all act responsibly, especially educational employers and trade unions, as parties to this labour dispute. I insist, the Basque Government, the Department of Education, has done, is doing and is going to do everything possible to help stem this labour conflict. In this regard, in view of the non-request for mediation, we have transferred to the CRL that we would be willing, should it request mediation from the parties to the conflict, to be present. This same week, the employer of the Kristau Eskola concerted educational centres has formally requested the Labour Relations Council to initiate the mediation procedure. The CRL has conducted the call and the Department of Education will be present in the mediation of the CRL between the two parties. If our presence makes it easier for the parties to sit down and negotiate there we will be. From our responsibility, we will work together to put an end to this conflict once and for all, which is only doing to harm Basque families.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question of the day when Juan Uria Serranus, a member of the Society of Podemos, was made to the chief physician of the Medical Department, to begin the new medical centre of Irana." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u121	Bakartxo Tejeria, Sailburuak, fellow parliamentarians. It's a simple problem that I'm bringing here. It is a problem of everyday life, the opportunity of a neighborhood in Bilbao of 13,000 inhabitants – which is Iralabarri – to have a health center that was promised to them nine years ago. It is a question that six months ago the councilwoman asked and that they would obviously have liked on the centenary of the neighborhood – which was held a couple of years ago – to inaugurate the health center to the neighbors. But there have been a number of problems that have already been mentioned and I would like to make it clear again. If the counselor has any dates or comments, this is the question: when will we be able to open the health centre in Irala? Because neighbors and neighbors are already talking about institutional tiredness, which is a very interesting reflection for some of the discussions we have here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u122	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u123	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief of the department, Mr. Uria. In relation to the times you estimate between five and eight years, between the decision to invest in health centers and the start of works, I would like to highlight that in Osakidetza we have thousands of buildings in which we offer health care. These infrastructures are part of OSI, mental health networks, emergencies, long- and medium-stay hospitals and others. Exclusively in primary care, we have more than 330 health centres and outpatient clinics distributed throughout the three historical territories, so without fear of being mistaken, accessibility is an identity of our public health system and therefore we continue to incorporate new centres or adapt existing ones to the care needs. This provision of infrastructure shows that the investment of the Basque Government over the 36-year history of Osakidetza has been continued and constant. Yes, providing us with new health infrastructure is important and is also reflected in our primary care strategy. We are implementing 35 measures and among them is improving care spaces and accessibility to our health centres. In order to meet the needs of primary care, we must not only think of the centres as works and bricks. New health centres or health reform should be adapted to the specific needs of each community to which they are going to provide health services and to their functional plans. In addition, they involve organizational changes of the patients for the distribution of quotas as well as of the professionals themselves. With regard to this new health centre in Irala that you are concerned about, I am very grateful to you to confirm that we have a firm commitment and that we are working and moving forward, and that we have a date. In fact, I will tell you that it is Osakidetza's intention to begin the work of the new health centre in Irala in this 2019 exercise and that the work will be completed by the summer of 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u125	Lonely Tejeria. Counselor, thank you for the information. We knew that on July 9, 2019 for the value of 1,879,000 euros, the tender for the authorization of works on the floors of the Harino Panadera building, which is where the City Council of Bilbao, in February 2019, gave way to the premises. I don't mean that. We know that approximately, we even thought that before the end of the legislature we could inaugurate the health center of Irala. I wish! I'm talking about something else. I am talking about the importance of fulfilling commitments. I mean, former advisor Rafa Bengoa and former mayor of Bilbao Iñaki Azkuna committed nine years ago to a new centre. Well, don't get engaged. If it's all right. "We're not going to do it." Let the public administration inform people of what they are doing. We know that in July the works for the renovation of the health centre in Irala have been tendered. Well, let's explain. And in the Bombero Etxaniz outpatient clinic, where the neighbors and neighbors of Irala go, there is a sign: "In about eight months we will have the new health center in Irala for the neighbors and neighbors". If we do not raise anything but transparency and information, let people not get tired. The other day, Bilbao City Council technicians told me that there had been no movement to displace municipal officials from the public health team there. They don't know dates. Professionals, officials don't know dates, where they're going. We'll have to call the councilwoman responsible for health. I am referring, not to his goodwill, not to the goodwill of the Bilbao City Council, but to a widespread tiredness that many neighbors and neighbors have for these commitments that are not fulfilled. Eight years. Since we discussed this matter it has been six months and the tender was in July. It hasn't been awarded yet. The contract form at the table was submitted in May, no houses have yet been awarded. Seven months of construction. We're thinking about May. You say now in summer, nothing happens. We know that there are infrastructures we need for the reform of primary care because they go with both feet. Sufficient organisational processes, programmes and infrastructure. I hope after 100 years Irala can have a health centre of her own, where she can develop the already successful community activity programs that are developed in collaboration with the Bilbao City Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u126	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u127	Mr. Uria, the new health centre of Iran is moving forward. A little slower than we might want, but there's already been a lot of steps ahead. In this case, Osakidetza identified the place that was best suited to its needs less than a year ago. It has a written and validated works execution project as you know it. The procurement file for the enabling works is being processed and the signing of the relevant contract is scheduled for mid-November. Also, the application for a municipal building permit is made by the city council and will soon be definitively granted. On the other hand, the movements of people currently working in the Harino Panadera building are analyzed and coordinated among the institutions involved: Lanbide, Bilbao City Council and Osakidetza. In fact, relocations are already identified. We also have the functional plan and the reorganization of quotas and professionals. As you see, a great number of steps have already been taken and it is true that things are taking their time. But I repeat again that before the end of the year the works of the new health centre in Irala will begin and will be completed by the middle of next year. In the meantime, in other quarters, we will continue to strengthen our first attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The 18th point in the subject list: "Appeal, a member of the Basque Company, Borja Sémper Pacal, made for Cultura and the chief of the political departments, Icomos' position in the Beautiful Arts of Donostian Arts, and that more on the international warning against the necessity of protecting." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u129	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Eguerdi on guztioi. Madam Counsellor, Mr Counsellor, very good morning. I will save you the rhetoric or explanations about the Museum of Fine Arts, which you know well, and its trajectory over the past few years and its circumstances, understanding that we are talking about a building that has already been discussed in this House as well. But if there is perhaps a point of reference for those who are not lucky enough not only to be from San Sebastián, but to know the vicissitudes of this magnificent building, and if there is any historical point that can help follow this debate to anyone who wants to follow it, then welcome be. As you know, and not everyone knows, the building of the Fine Arts is a unique building because of its geographical location in the city center, also because of its content – it was the first cinematographer that was built in Spain – and also because of the date of its construction that dates back around 1914. And it is also one of the last cinematographers left before the First World War in Europe as a whole. Therefore, it is a building that has an interesting value for its history, for its origin. Architecturally, although there may be nuances and discussions about this, it is a building with architectural value. And because of its configuration, as I said before, in the urban plot and its strategic position in San Sebastián, it is also a building of interest and value. Thus, in 2014 the Basque Government itself stated that the Fine Arts, and these are textual words, "was a bearer of cultural values that justified their protection." And in this way, not only did the Basque Government keep a mere statement, but in 2015 it was declared well of cultural interest. It is true that this qualification, this protection of good of cultural interest only lasts two years, because the Basque Government retracted, modified, eliminated the definitive protection that two years earlier had granted to the building of the Fine Arts. We arrived today a few months ago, and Icomos, which is associated with Unesco, issues an international alarm about the situation of the building and about the need to increase the protection with which this building, which is basically the Peppuc of the City Council of San Sebastián and the action that the Basque Government can develop. It is no less a matter than an organization associated with UNESCO issues an international alert statement on the risk situation on this building. It is a warning that has aroused interest and concern, I know that in the Basque Government itself, because in September – but I am not well informed – the President in Spain of Icomos meets with his wealth director to discuss this building, its present, its future and its protection. The information I'm counting on – which I'm also taking advantage of to ask you if it's true – is that your wealth manager comes to tell the president of Icomos that it's not such an important building either. Therefore, in view of the objective value of the building, given the circumstances under which it is going through risk, objective deterioration and risk of interest in demolition on the part of the property, we would like to know what are the plans of its department, what are the plans of the Basque Government in relation to this building, its protection, and to ensure that we do not lose a property of these characteristics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u130	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u131	Mrs. President, Congressmans, fellow governments. Mr Semper, parliamentarian of the People's Party and councillor of his party in the City of San Sebastián – it is a relevant fact – asks me about the purpose of the Basque Government in relation to the protection of the building Fine Arts of San Sebastián against the international alert issued by Icomos. I think it is worth remembering our relationship with this group, with Icomos, a relationship that comes from before and that does not arise now at the thread of the building Beautiful Arts. We have worked with them and asked for their opinion, whenever possible, on matters as relevant as the Valle Salado de Añana or the landscape of Rioja wine, and we have also had a relationship with them at different times regarding this building of the Fine Arts. It is a relationship that has always been frank and interesting for both sides, which we intend to continue to maintain, although our views have not always coincided. The last phase of our relationship, on the subject of the Fine Arts, began on September 4, when, through a written communication, the president of the Spanish National Committee of Icomos informed us that the organization had launched an international alert on the endangered heritage, and asked our institution to look for an option that would not lead to the destruction of the property. Nine days later, on September 13, our director of Cultural Heritage held a meeting with representatives of the Spanish committee of Icomos in which he informed them of our position on this matter. After the meeting, I myself sent a letter to the President of Icomos Spain, reiterating our position, our arguments and our reasons. And I will refer to the considerations set out in the letter, which define the current position of the Government in this matter. The Department of Culture, from its Cultural Heritage Directorate, made a positive assessment of the cultural value of the Bellas Artes building in San Sebastián, which is why it decided to take the step for its protection through the publication of the Order of 4 March 2015, which decided to register the Palacio Bellas Artes as a cultural property in the General Inventory of Basque Cultural Heritage. This also established the system of permitted interventions, both for reform and for use. The technical report considers the Fine Arts as a building that deserves medium level protection. The publication of this order, on 4 March 2015, brought with it the presentation, by the society currently owning the building of Bellas Artes, of a judicial remedy against that qualification. The property had previously filed claims against the Government's resolution process, opposing its classification; claims that were, for the most part, not accepted by the Government. However, the relevant judicial decision penalized the ruin of the building and required the Government to retract its decisions at the time before the commencement of proceedings for registration as a cultural property. The Department of Culture, in the light of that judgment and in view of the fact that the technical reports of the Department of Heritage provided an average level of protection for this property, decided not to resume the process of qualifying the building and to refer the matter to the level of protection that the City of San Sebastián had in its day granted to it. And I think it is worth remembering at this point that the San Sebastian City Council itself had decided on the previous date, specifically in 2013 "Let me remind you that it was another political force that ruled in Donostia and Gipuzkoa that decided to lower the degree of protection that the building had granted, in order to open up options that would allow new uses for it. In order to complete the review of these procedures and initiatives, it should be recalled that more recent judgments have, in part, given reason to the owner company again and have caused the current situation. As you are well aware, the protection of private real estate raises interesting and passionate debates. Right now there are a couple of them very interesting in different cities of the Spanish state. In the view of this Government, policies for the protection of real estate assets – especially when they are privately owned – they must first and foremost facilitate and ensure their reuse and sustainability. Otherwise, we run the risk of facing the complete loss or abandonment of these goods, unless the public administrations decide to undertake complex and costly public procurement operations, to undertake expensive works of strict recovery to lead to the public use of doubtful interest, which normally do not solve the problem and tend to leave for the future situations of difficult management. I am afraid that in Euskadi right now we have more cases than we can reasonably manage from the point of view of expenditure and sustainability. Much has been emphasized in the cultural value of the building of Bellas Artes as a cinema room, claiming that it is the first built in the early twentieth century, coinciding with the beginnings of the expansion of the cinematographer in Spain. But it is important to note that the property in question has undergone profound transformations throughout the 20th century and I believe that this is not the first Donostiar cinematic building, but the second, unless it is wrong. Their survival will depend on what we all do. Today, it does not seem easy for the property to continue the cultural function for which it was built, even more so if we take into account the evolution that the business of the cinemas has suffered and the difficulties of survival in which the sector finds itself as a result of the new uses and consumptions of the citizens. And the reuse of the Fine Arts for cultural purposes seems problematic, Mr Semper, since it is Donostia a city endowed with numerous public equipment for culture. In any case, assessing the need for new cultural equipment in the city is a matter that concerns the City of Donostia and those who, like you, have representation in it. With regard to the protection of the building, the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy of the Basque Government insists that the best solution to the current situation is to find a formula that ensures the preservation of the necessary elements, but at the same time allows the protection of the building without condemning it to disuse. A solution that allows the property to match the protection with its adaptation to new uses, since the original use seems unfeasible. In short, a level of protection and permitted uses should be defined that do not condemn the City of Donostia to the public purchase of the building and do not prevent its conversion to other functions. All this requires more flexibility than that observed so far, and also requires the achievement of an agreement between private property and the City of San Sebastian, an institution directly involved in this issue. And without that agreement, it doesn't seem easy for us to find a reasonable solution for the Fine Arts. Also in our communication with Icomos we have expressed to them – to Icomos and to other institutions and organizations with which we are related – our willingness to reflect on the policy of heritage conservation that does not lead to paralysis of real estate or to the payment of millionaire compensation to its owners. The government can't help but see that the Bellas Artes building is a private property and owns an owner. It's not everyone's. And we believe that the City Council of Donostia is the first interested, both now and when it was governed by other acronyms, in finding an exit that agrees the preservation of the main elements of the Fine Arts and the beginning of new activities that allow the survival of that building. For that reason, it is essential that the City of San Sebastian and the property reach an agreement that will enable this situation to be unblocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u132	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u133	Yeah. I have a certain feeling of condemnation on your part of the building, of throwing the towel in terms of the search for elements or solutions that allow us, perhaps in an imaginative but always sensible way, to give a way to a problem that is encased in the city, that you also ask, because that Icomos issues an international order because it is not a dish of taste and for you neither will it be, for your director of Heritage, nor for the Basque heritage, nor for our culture. In addition, we are talking about a building and a management around it that comes to say that it is hampered, obviously, by the property of the building itself. I mean, it's not a public building, it's a building that has some owners. And this obviously has to be taken into account, as it couldn't be otherwise, unless one is a dangerous Bolivarian revolutionary, and you don't look like it, I can assure you neither. We believe in private property and the need for public authorities to reach agreements with private property, whether there is a heritage interest or a cultural interest that justifies it by the public authorities. And you were saying three sentences that I hold onto to ask for help. You said, "You have to find a way out," we share; "your survival will depend on what we all do," I share, and "we have to find a formula." So, as those who have been trying to manage them and solve it – even if they share their party card – have not succeeded in a few years, we will try to provide solutions that do not pass through the purchase – it does not seem reasonable that in this case the City Council of San Sebastián approaches the purchase of a building of these characteristics – and it does not pass through the expropriation either, it would also have to justify a public interest and it does not seem that that is reasonable. And for what I ask you to help, even if this is unorthodox, it is to help me convince the mayor that there is a solution, that there are exits; that you help me convince the current municipal government of San Sebastian that there is a solution that passes through a swap. And in addition, he also asks you and, if I hurry, the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation. Donostia-San Sebastián is a city with a clear link to the world of cinema. You've recently been to the Film Festival. The Basque Government participates in the board of directors, puts money every year from the budgets of the Autonomous Community, the Foral Diputación de Gipuzkoa also, the Ministry of Culture, therefore the Government of Spain also, and the City of San Sebastián, obviously also. Why don't we try to find a formula that will allow this building to become a reference at the International Film Festival throughout the year? The Film Festival takes place in September. It has an undeniable international interest, an undeniable national interest and an undeniable particular interest also for Euskadi and San Sebastián. And we have managed – through conferences, meetings, screenings of films of interest or that have been awarded in the past, meetings between filmmakers, meetings between Basque cinema, etc., etc. – a building that also equips the city with one or two rooms in the city center – requested also by the director of the film festival itself – and that allows us to be protagonists in the world of cinema. And I dare say – although I am from San Sebastián, not Bilbao – that I have international projection throughout the year the activity that around the world of cinema is done in Donostia-San Sebastián and, therefore, is done in Euskadi. I believe that the Basque Government here may have an interest too. And I believe that the Basque Government has underused or unused buildings in the city of San Sebastian. The Ministry has them, the Government of Spain has them, the Provincial Council of Gipuzkoa has them, the City of San Sebastián has them. Why are we not able to agree among all of us on property and, through a swap, solve an enquished problem, equip the city with a cultural element of undeniable interest, which, moreover, can have a substantial economic return and solve this problem that has been enquished for many years? I believe that you, as you are relatively new to this of the Basque Government, can bring some freshness, I also do not so much, but perhaps I can help you, and among all of you, to convince the minister of duty, the deputy general and the mayor of San Sebastian, to resolve this with the property in a friendly way, and to equip Basque with an infrastructure of undeniable interest. And everyone happy. And besides, with a patrimonial burden – I am convinced – for the public arks, smaller. The Festival already works, has its own advice, has its own structure, does not need to increase it. We need a building and its remodelling can be obtained with the surplus value or with the calculations made of the building resulting from the exchange, and we can solve it. I'm the one who sees it relatively easy. I know it's lax management, and you're forced to talk to the mayor, who doesn't want to move; you're forced to talk to the minister on duty, who might have other interests; the deputy general lives very comfortable... But, well, if we get past that can that gives us management, we can solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u134	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Semper jauna, I'm not a councilman at the City Hall of San Sebastian and you are. Maybe I should spend more time talking to the mayor, see what he's doing. I think you have, and you have more to say than I do on this issue. It seems dangerous to me the ground on which you have placed the debate. I don't know if we are aware of the consequences of the things we say. I have told you that what results from this building and its future will depend on what many agents say and how many agents act on this issue. The simplest economic calculation that has been made for an operation, I don't care whether it's for exchange or purchase, because in the end it's the same, it can be around 25 million euros if we contemplate only the acquisition of one way or another of the building and its restoration. Do you realize the precedent that we would sit down? We're talking about a first-century building in the 20th century, not a 16th-century building. With a severe difficulty for him to maintain his original activity. And with an average rating level. How many buildings like this can there be in the country? A lot. We are all responsible for our actions. We can decide what we want, but these decisions have consequences and can work as precedents. And I'd be very careful what we say and what we do. But, well, everyone assumes their responsibility. This building, which is 100 years old, has 25 empty, abandoned. Right now the Basque Nationalist Party rules in Donostia and the Gipuzkoa Provincial Diputation, but it has not always been so. We have had different parties at the head of these institutions, and none – some have also had the support of their party – have succeeded in unlocking this issue. Some difficulty involves. And then I thank you for the pro-active and innovative tone almost, to make the proposal you have made. I have doubts that Donostiako Zinemaldia's priority today is to have a museum. We have located the institutions that we are on your board of directors, we have located Zinemaldia in Tabakalera. And in Tabakalera, in a context where there is the cultural building itself, there is the Film Festival, there is the Basque Film Library, today is developing the most interesting and richest cinema offer that exists in many kilometers around. That which you propose, we have already resolved in Tabakalera. I don't think we'd bring anything if we made that attempt you propose in the Building of Fine Arts. If the City Council wants to, then you'll see. But I do not see the Government very willing to participate in this duplication of an installation and of an activity that is, I think, perfectly covered, in addition to almost exemplary form, so those who come to visit us say. I insist, this goes through an agreement with private property, because any other solution seems to me to be a bad precedent and it also seems to me that it can be ruinous. Then I aspire to convince the parties to reach an agreement. I hope that the City Council and the property of the building can reach an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u136	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Ui Uruzuno Goldst Club, made of Cultural and the Chief of Policy Language, around EITB informatives." Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u137	Good noon, everyone. On the day on which Mr. Zupiria, the sentence against the younger Alsatsu, the mother of one of the Platforms, and at the same time the mother of one of the younger, Bel Pozutta, made some expressions. But by order of the deputy director of the Basque News Radio, they decided not to issue this statement. And the argument was that Belzueta is now the EH Collector, and we're at election time, I'll repeat his words: "Proportality, equality and political neutrality are to be cared for with special care." That was the argument. And I want above all to distinguish a few concepts: equality and political neutrality. Because the same day, Raio Euscadin and Radio Vitoria Solan had been interviewed. And I assure you, I've been trying to figure out where the differences between them might have been before they came in here and didn't make a mistake. And I have been examining it, and have not felt any difference in their condition. One is the EAJ and the other the EHG, but beyond that there are both the candidates of Navarre, and I think they are both in the same condition, but you will tell me if they are not. So the question is, why not Belzueta, and Maria Solan is? And how do they reconcile themselves again with the words of the deputy-director, proportionality, equality, and political neutrality with such excesses and factions?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u138	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u139	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Mr. Uruzuno, I've been asked several questions about the news and informal treatment of EIB during this legislation, in order to meet my opinion or my self in this parliament. And I've always given the same answer, and neither I nor I won't settle EIB's informative line, that's the business of local directors and professionals. And I think I'd make a mistake if I started giving my opinions on this subject. I know that in the Administration Council the representatives of EH Collect have given your opinion on this subject, and that you have made the necessary reflections. And I think it's all right, he should and that's his place. I've always defended EIB's autonomy, his journalist's, his manager's, and also the representatives in the administration committee. And today I won't take another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u140	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u141	As I was saying, we questioned the authorities and there was no answer, so we brought him here, because if you're concerned about it, there's no answer here either. But that's not the worst part of it. I'm going to emphasize one thing, the radio editor has asked his direction for an explanation that "this thing has been unacceptable from the deontological view" in his own words. But, I say, we are not asking for explanations about an isolated case or of this particular fact. I'll give you another example, in an examination made by the Basque Country University by its employees at EIB, who'll have a more complete or solid opinion than their employees, they say that EIB plays the news with partiality. And I repeat, I don't want any explanation of any particular event, I want the measures, the measures for once and for all, to terminate such events. And I know you don't want that because you know EIB gives you political profit and you prefer that political profit, even if it's according to EIB's deprestigation, you're willing to have EITB's social mission, for the sake of giving up social function as a side to you. And that's what's unacceptable, and we've come to denounce it, knowing that it wouldn't be here today, like in the administrative committee the previous day, any explanation. I'm afraid there will be no explanation or any discretion for the end of it. That's what you're doing with EITB. Peachable and pitiful to us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u142	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u143	President andrea. Mr. Urruzuno, you know better than I do what's happened at EIB, probably because you've made more effort to find out what's happened and what's gone wrong. Your group collected information about this subject inside EIB, if you know the steps given by the editor's hearing. You've even heard of the opinion LAB union gave you. You brought out a press note yourself, eight today, accusing EIB that he's been censored on this subject. Last Monday, the official opinion of an agent in EIB's board came up. And now you've brought the whole affair to the assembly to make a complaint of this tribe. So, you know what happened and you got the answer to the EIB Director. I have nothing more to say, I am not to protect or criticize the decision I have made. I won't give an opinion. Just because I don't want to give an opinion doesn't mean I don't care about the subject. I care about everything that concerns EIB, and I take with great respect every question that concerns EIB, and this too, of course. But I shouldn't go into my affairs. I can't, I don't want to and I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u144	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Interpation, Edurne García Hornembe together, members of the Podemos team to the Chief of Security, from the Euskal Watchery to the Euskade game and the sports team to face and to fix boundaries." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u145	I left where I left off. Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, we again have to talk about gambling and sports betting, a practice that, as you know, is increasing and particularly affects the underage population and young people and young people. We must continue to point out, as we have done since Elkarrekin We can on several occasions, that the dimension that is taking on the proliferation of gambling houses and gambling rooms is alarming. We are faced with a problem of normalization with regard to the addiction of gambling, the consequences of which are tremendous. It is a social phenomenon that concerns us all and concerns not only associations affected by ludopathy, social groups and youth organizations, but also citizens in general. Existing data speak for themselves. In recent years, gambling and gambling business has been expanding exponentially across our streets and neighborhoods. Today there are already 256 gambling rooms, betting venues and bingoes in Euskadi spread over the three territories, as well as 11,351 slot machines and some 2,100 betting machines, of which, more than half, are located in bars. It is rare to find today a hostel that does not have a betting device or a slot machine. To this face-to-face game must be added the unbridled growth of online games and sports bets on the internet, on which there is not enough data available despite the fact that the VII Plan on Addictions of Euskadi 2017-2020 recognizes its risks, especially for the young population. But let's go on with the data we do have. 26% of the Basque population is already an active player having spent money, at least once a week during the last year that was consulted, in some kind of gambling. The youngest citizens of Euskadi are becoming the easiest target for gambling companies and those most affected by the serious public health problem posed by the spread of ludopathy. The offer of the game is increasingly presented in the vicinity of schools and institutes with the consequent exposure of the students to the game and to the normalization of an activity that can lead to addiction problems. According to a study by the University of Deusto, 29.2% of secondary school students in Euskadi have acknowledged having made sports bets, and 5% may have a serious problem with this practice and be at risk of developing gambling addiction. And associations that have been fighting ludopathy and have been working for decades have been warning that there are increasingly cases of younger people with gambling addiction problems, in a context of invasion of advertising that incites them to play and make bets using as a claim faces known as those of sportsmen. Because this is one of the most important challenges that we have to face from the institutions, in order to be able to address and regulate the problem of gambling: the omnipresence of online gambling advertising on digital platforms and in the media without any time limitation. At all times, in the various media it is impossible to find a sporting event that is not saturated before, during and after sports betting ads. Currently 19 of the 20 First Division clubs of the Men's Football League are wearing such advertising on their T-shirts. Its advertisements are continuous in the static advertising of most sports stadiums or pavilions, and with the intervention of well-known presenters, journalists and sportsmen give it the appropriate dress of credibility and normality, managing to make a whole where it is very difficult to distinguish the sports criticism and debates from the promotion of betting. The pockets of gambling operators swell with profits from gamblers, many of whose families end up sinking into misery. With the trilled little phrase of "play with responsibility" they intend, cynically, to save their own, transferring the problem to the weakest link, which is the person who plays. The bitterest face of this reality emerges from the observation that there are already 43,000 Basques and Basques who have a pathological gambling disorder according to the Department of Health of the Basque Government. And more and more young people are facing this addiction. Currently the profile of people who go to associations to apply for help for gambling problems is between 26 and 35 years old, in the case of men, and between 36 and 45 years old, in the case of women. Gambling is an economic activity that does not create wealth, it consists only of passing money from one hand to another; it is organized, guaranteeing the maximum benefit for the one who exploits it and the loss for the one who plays it. A very profitable business, which reports millions of euros to the three companies that dedicate themselves to sports betting in Euskadi, and to those that operate on the internet and are not Basque figures that do not stop growing. As we say, the two variants of sports betting that have experienced the greatest growth in recent years – online gambling and betting fairs – are where these companies and digital platforms get great benefits, as they are mostly based in tax havens or low-tax countries, not to mention that the few jobs they generate are low-skilled. And from Elkarrekin We are convinced that the proximity of gambling houses in our neighborhoods or online gambling in our daily lives are decisive elements that facilitate the consolidation of addictive behavior. In addition, the immediacy of knowing the result and having the prize increases it even more. In particular, it is eaten with the social strata of less resources, which cling to the game as the only way out to escape the raw and unjust reality that surrounds them. It is no coincidence that they arise as fungi in the peripheral workers' neighborhoods associated with very high unemployment rates. By housing them close to educational and leisure centres, they seek to attract impoverished young people, with no future and no alternatives to develop, seduced by the supposed easy money. As access controls in many cases are lax, the participation of minors in them is not unusual. In some neighborhoods, in the mornings, in the playgrounds, teenagers stroll around the lounges and spaces that house betting devices; it is even observed that teens are quoted in the lounges and in this type of space to watch football games together and sports games, and enjoy the popular prices and misleading offers regarding consumption. They want them to spend as much time there as possible, eating and drinking, even at a loss, because the business is not the bar, but the game. The ultimate goal is to turn the bets into something social and normalized. If you manage to integrate bets into people's social life, everything else comes alone. We're in front of the pathological game barn. Ludopathy is installed as a tax on poverty or, as some already call it, 21st-century heroin. And of course, in the face of this situation, the mobilizations and protests generated by various youth associations, social groups and neighboring platforms, in the face of this desolating panorama, are multiplying. People are concerned about gambling addiction and the drama often associated with ludopathy, which is a disorder recognized by the World Health Organization. Its consequences are alarming, not only for the person suffering from them, but also for the family and professional environment. However, it is impossible to quantify the reality of ludopathy in Euskadi, since the periodic survey "Euskadi and drugs" carried out by the Basque Government does not study gambling addiction, as claimed by experts in addictions and associations helping Euskadi's ludopathy. This situation, as we have already denounced from Elkarrekin Podemos, requires that public institutions take letters on the matter, with effective measures and at the height of the problem, concrete measures that respond to the needs of a phenomenon such as gambling and the negative consequences arising from it. The Basque Government is required to take on a leading role in this matter, and that is what we have come today to demand, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia. Given the lack of concrete studies and data that offer us a detailed and comprehensive picture of the current situation of the game and sports betting, and of the number of people affected by the negative consequences resulting from their practice in Euskadi, opposition parties, including Elkarrekin Podemos, request the creation of an observatory of the game as one of the first steps to take to carry out periodic surveys and studies that give us a starting point on which to work to address this problem. A year ago, in November 2018, the Board of Gambling and Shows, belonging to the Department of Security for which you are responsible, and after pushing the opposition groups, adopted a decree for the creation of the Basque Observatory of the Game, an organ whose main objective is to carry out reports and studies from which a plan of action with concrete proposals and measures would be drawn up. We are seeing how the number of betting parlors continues to increase significantly since then and with this the number of people with ludopathy in Euskadi. And during this year what concrete measures have been put in place from your department? What reports and studies have been conducted since the Game Observatory? We also want to know what has been done to put in place measures to protect younger people from the negative consequences of the game and sports betting, both from the Game Observatory and from your department, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia. It is an important problem that needs to be addressed with concrete measures.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u147	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs. García, I would like to remark once again that in the whole of the state the Esucdi is the member of the community who regulates the most and most exact methods of gambling, especially in 2016, with the General Registry of the Game, which fixes the practice and control system of the Eukadian game. The regulation establishes, at the entrance, the maximum number of licenses that can be granted in each mode of play, as you well know. The data I'm going to quote you now, is the X-ray we have today of the activity of the game in Euskadi, because you have set me up with the data. Of the three possible casino licenses, there are two that are in operation; at the moment there is no more demand. Of the total amount of bingo games, not even half of the squares are allowed, also with a clear downward trend. For playrooms, the 2016 regulation established a maximum of 210 licenses. Until then, until the Rules of Procedure were adopted, you know that there was no ceiling. All licences are now in fact granted. There's six more openings. And it is clear – because this is reflected in the regulation – that no longer one licence can be granted as long as none of the licences that are granted is not closed. There are three gambling houses licenses. I would also remind you, in this regard, that we are the only Community in the State which grants these licences by tender. A total of 34 specific betting venues have been opened. On the other hand, since the implementation of the regulatory measures, there has been a reduction in the number of gaming machines, commonly referred to as slot machines, those in bars and hotel establishments; currently 7,470 machines, in a total of approximately 14,000 bars or hotel premises. The trend is downward. In the last three years, 13% less. Less than 10% of the number of bars and hotel establishments have a betting machine installed – of which they are not slot machines – with a slight downward trend in this case as well. With this data, what I want to make clear is that the face-to-face game in Euskadi is regulated, well regulated and controlled. But obviously, beyond the face-to-face game, there is the online game, which is practiced mainly from private and private areas. Euskadi's three betting houses licenses have their online dimension, because here it is required that in order to have an online license you have to have a face license. But beyond what we have to regulate and which we can control, of course, there is a more generalized reality, universal, by the very nature of the internet. Like gambling advertising, the online game does not know of borders or shared regulations, but only of channels of dissemination, direct incitement to the game, also generating greater problems in the private and family spheres, as you have commented. Game modes that are very visible and registrable on the network, but that, at least initially, are not very visible and detectable in the nearest environment. It is one of the biggest concerns of associations of people affected by gambling addiction, of many families and also of the Administration. That is why we must also talk in this case about a shared concern. A social, family, educational, institutional concern. And in this sense, already in that regulation that was approved in 2016 we established a whole chapter dedicated to advertising, sponsorship, promotional activity, everything that has to do with the dissemination and promotion of the game. Chapter XII of that regulation contains a wide range of guidelines, rules, prohibitions, with specific attention to the protection of minors. Obviously, even the media themselves can regulate, self-regulatory, commercial activity with respect to the game. EITB has recently done so. Since its social responsibility, corporate has made the decision to suppress the advertising of the game from its programming, as they well know; as they also did, for example, the partners of the Royal Society voting in favour of the team giving up sponsorships of gambling companies. But it's also true that we don't have to cheat. We are on some dates when the advertising of certain gambling flourishes especially intensely. Advertising and social acceptance are a fact. The State has no regulation that limits the promotion of gambling on the Internet or media promotion, where it is only advising self-regulation. In the face of this, in the Department of Security, what have we done? We have always advocated intensifying another fundamental line of work, a continuous work aimed at prevention, from communication, from awareness-raising campaigns and from training actions. Media campaigns, outreach talks, training sessions aimed both at local police, from the point of view of monitoring the presence of minors in the playrooms, also in terms of compliance with schedules, but also aimed at staff in this sector, with recommendations on how to act when there are situations in which people with risk practices are observed. And in this sense, we are also collaborating with Asaxer, the Alavesa Association of Players in Rehabilitation, so that within the Prevention program from Communication, Ertzaintza program, the association and Ertzains develop awareness and prevention initiatives in the school field. Remember that this program in the last course reached more than 40,000 schoolchildren. Next Tuesday is celebrated the day without gambling. Assager has sent us his message, focusing on the need for prevention and social awareness, personal awareness and the need to insist on attitudes of responsibility to the game. These days we are also broadcasting radio messages from the department, with the message, "if you play, with responsibility" and "do not allow minors to play". And I also want to highlight the control work, the sanctioning work in the face of the violation of the regulations being carried out by the Play and Show Unit of the Ertzaintza, in collaboration with the police stations' citizen protection patrols, also with the local police and the Directorate of Play and Shows itself. This year the Ertzaintza Play and Show Unit has carried out more than 1,200 specific inspections to detect infringements related to the presence of minors in play halls. The result has been 12 sanctioning files for the identification of 16 minors. This brings a fine to the operators between 4,000 and 6,000 euros for each identified minor. In any case, I agree with you that all the measures that can be adapted, both from regulation, from sanctioning control, or even from awareness raising, all seem insufficient when addiction problems arise, when the impact of the game negatively affects the social and family relations of people, which, of course, forces us to be careful to act and take corrective measures. But, at the same time, without falling into demagogic attitudes that seek to simplify the social and anthropological silence of the game with absolute formulas of persecution or prohibition. That is why it has been important to establish the Euskadi Game Observatory, an observatory that was set up on 14 February, an interdisciplinary and interdepartmental observatory that is already carrying out its work of monitoring, prospecting and studying the trends of the sector and its economic and social repercussions. An observatory that is systematizing a working methodology to code, classify and categorize data. In this we are also pioneers, in the creation of this observatory and in the multidisciplinary composition of the observatory. These data will need to be analysed later and taken into consideration by the Technical Advisory Board of Gambling, so that the Board of Gambling and the Regulatory Authority of the Gambling will finally and as a result take the most appropriate measures for the public management of this activity, which is the gambling activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u148	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Eskerrik asko, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia for the explanations she has given. But it is obvious, because we had already had the opportunity to discuss it on other occasions, that there are regulations, that there are decrees, but it is also true that the problem of gambling continues to grow. And you, for example, have constituted the Observatory of the Game which, despite what you have just told me, still does not update the data and still does not offer a study of the situation in which we find ourselves day by day, and it was a pressing situation. In addition, a Game Observatory that you create, because it is the opposition that makes that push and proposes that initiative. So, I'm glad you're working, but what we're telling you is that you're in a hurry, because the situation is complicated. And the situation out there, of course, is serious for many families. And we don't just say it ourselves, obviously, the associations say it. But not just associations of those affected by the problem of ludopathy, but associations of neighbours, associations of young people who understand that this is one of the biggest problems they are now facing. The modalities, of course, of online betting at the national level are the responsibility of the central State, some because there is scope for some advertising issues to be dealt with by the Basque Government. It cannot be that the answer is always that it is not our competence. Yeah. We are appealing to him for what is his competence. And with the face-to-face game of autonomous competition, well, it is well known that some parties and some political organizations are linked to the main players in the game, with high-ranking positions participating in the boards of directors or in the lobbies of the sector itself. In addition, attention to the treatment of addiction is left almost exclusively to the associations of affected persons themselves, who receive few subsidies and who are also claiming aid in the face of an increase in the number of persons attending them. It is essential, from our point of view, to order the sector by regulating advertising in a manner similar to what is already being done with other addictions – such as tobacco or alcohol – by prohibiting the participation in their advertisements of relevant persons, separating the content of advertising programmes, establishing effective control of access to the salons and to the gambling and betting terminals themselves, and by different measures – either DNI readers or other systems – that protect young people and adolescents and those who have been banned, and by fixing in addition a series of minimum distances between an educational centre and the playroom, and the space itself between the playrooms so that there is no concentration. And of course there are some measures and there are some distances, but maybe it's time to review and update that regulation you're talking about. Moreover, it is of vital importance to offer young sports, social, cultural and leisure alternatives with which to develop, equalising the taxes on the game – regardless of the ownership of the operator –, transferring a percentage to its treatment and prevention, improving, of course, inspection services. And you quoted the interventions of the Ertzaintza, with the 1,073 controls and the 12 sanctioning files, but we think few. One when it passes or goes out to any center or playroom, there are so many smaller ones in them, there are them. And parallel to that, we must also develop campaigns that go beyond four sentences, appealing to individual responsibility. There are obviously campaigns, there are obviously measures. What we are asking for is more concrete measures that are based on updated data, which we understood to have been in place for a year. And in the face of this institutional abandonment, sporadic episodes of organization and resistance of neighbours and citizens to this new drug are beginning to appear. And look, who benefits from the game? Half a dozen companies, which do not create jobs, nor do their profits revert to our society, with the obvious deception of making money quickly, in a simple way and soon after they will lose in one way or another. And that's what it's about, winning at first, to lose almost always. The game was designed precisely this way, so that a few would become rich at the expense of the most unfortunate. And from Elkarrekin We have been working in institutions to alleviate the effects of this phenomenon, and we have presented different initiatives in municipalities, for example, and in other institutions. And it is up to your department, Mrs Beltrán, to take concrete measures, more measures, and that is what we are asking you to do. We appreciate your good intention. But we believe that organs like the Game Observatory have to start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u151	Thank you, Mrs. President of the legislature. Let us return to the debate of who was the first to push the issue of the Observatory. Frankly, I don't care who wears the medal. But it is clear that the Observatory was created, the decree was passed in November and a decree has been drawn up for many months. Therefore, I would like to say with this that the department had already begun to work before you presented an initiative for the constitution of this Game Observatory. A cross-cutting and interdisciplinary observatory consisting of different representatives of different government departments, which is currently, as I have said, involved in the development of studies, economic impact analysis and the tax impact of the sector. It is also analysing the level of implementation of equality policies in companies in the sector and, in particular, the social impact of gambling, the impact on the most vulnerable groups: on minors, on people at risk of problem or addictive gambling. And he's doing it in collaboration with a social research consultant. In short, what we want, and this is the objective, is to know better the reality of gambling in Euskadi so that we can act more adequately on the lines of work we have already applied, or on others that it is convenient to activate. The department is committed to developing a new game planning by 2020, as set out in the Game Act. And the axes of action he is addressing, the axes on which this Observatory is working, precisely those that will give rise to the elaboration of this planning, are: the related to the normative compliance; the training actions that must be carried out; the actions of awareness-raising, prevention and early detection in the school field; the corporate social responsibility required of the companies in the sector, in the sense of going far beyond the mere normative compliance in order to try to implement greater transparency, ethical commitment and policies of equality on the part of the actors involved in the sector; the aspects of improvement in the management of the statistical data that we have been managing; the exploration of technological innovation that allows to increase the security and traceability of the users, and a greater knowledge of the complementary activities that surround the world of the game. But the observatory was set up on 14 February. It may seem to you that it is sufficient time to have done all this work, but I insist and ask for patience. Let us allow the Observatory and the staff working on this Observatory to convey their conclusions to us. Already, in advance, we have been told the need, the idea or the approach to launch a website that is already under construction, and that will serve to give visibility to the studies and surveys that are carried out on those data that are most relevant in the sector and that generate more social concern. So we're not starting from scratch. The Observatory is not a starting point from nothing, the Department of Security with the Gambling and Entertainment Directorate and Ertzaintza itself we are in permanent observation and surveillance, in close and continuous collaboration with other departments, with other institutions, collaborating with local entities, with local police, with associations and people affected by gambling addiction. But, above all, and I repeat, in the state, we are one of the most comprehensively regulated communities in the gambling sector. Observation, analysis, monitoring, concern, yes, I insist, all that yes, but without alarming us to move away from reality and the practical capacity to articulate efficient policies. The Euskata Game's observation of the influence of the play in society is being examined. His work is very advanced and close to his goal. He'll give you good tools to strengthen and develop the work you've done so far. We are in this with a shared concern and with real work being done day by day and with a commitment to offer a response to this concern as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-25.u152	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and thirteen in the afternoon.
