ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. "On the other hand. The drawings of an entire 3nd meeting of October, according to the 92.1 article of the ruler, as far as the other proposition made by the parlamentary Podemos, concerning the deficiencies of the Eucadian waste-water projects." It was a draw to collect EH and together, in the middle-corrected by the Podemos teams, and, following the 92.1 article of the rules, we'll make the vote again, the vote of that correction. Put your cards in good shape. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[Berber]] That the cards have to be put right... [[Barres]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 36; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u1	As equality is, it's cancelled. Next, Eucabertians and Basque Socialists vote the whole correction of the teams. After the vote, you can't say it, you have to say it inside the vote. Yeah? Got it? [[Berber]] Let's see, and now it works, doesn't it? We don't know... Look, the machine never fails; that's the problem. [[Barres]] Nunca falla. He's sleeping compruebo, y nunca falla. But look, we'll vote again, but we have to say it inside the vote and put the tickets right in. We vote again. We can vote. Correction, right? Number one. [[Berber]] It doesn't work. [[Berber]] Can we just chill out for a second? Can we just chill out for a second? Txate it on a pan, does it work now? Yeah, well, it worked before then, too. Zeinenak ez du funtzionazen? Sartu Txartela. No, but, wait, before, did the card work before? Is the card working now? We'll vote again for the first correction. We can vote... Please enter your tickets. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 37; counters, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u2	So the full correction has been accepted. From the theme list, the first point is: "The process and the investigation of the political responsibilities which have been issued from 2003 to the direct management of the schools. Discipline and final resolution. Following legal precedents, it's going to start with a discussion team shift. It's about 20 minutes to the biggest of the smaller ones. And the turn to answer, 10 minutes. Mr Barri, your word is yours. The third point is that it's left for another...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u3	It doesn't work. Now, yeah? [[Barres]] Thank you... Good morning, everyone, president, lehendakari, councillors, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. We adopted a good opinion in the Committee of Inquiry on 25 June, and today we are dealing with its final resolution in this plenary. A sound opinion, an unscriptural opinion, a constructive opinion. The text of the opinion is logically contained in the plenary documentation, with a description of the situation through the factual background, the facts proved, in relation to the various irregularities in the proceedings, the necessary recommendations and the conclusions and responsibilities. When the administration does not do things right and problems are identified, we have an obligation in this Parliament to analyse the dysfunctions and try to correct them, and this opinion does so with analysis, facts, conclusions and, above all, with the recommendations, I say again. He wants to be a constructive opinion. And when companies don't do it right, in their relationship with the administration, more reason to analyze what has to do with bad practices or illegal consultation in this case. We have worked in the committee, we have heard statements, testimonies and studied documents, and my group has reached the final conclusions, which we already presented on 25 June at the last meeting of the committee of inquiry, and which are reflected in this opinion adopted by the majority of the committee. The Commission of Inquiry into the award process for the provision of direct management school canteens of the Basque Government since 2003 and related political responsibilities was launched in the light of the numerous warnings that came to this Parliament, by private citizens, and by public authorities and courts, and must be part of the normality of the work that a parliament carries out for inefficiencies or irregularities of the Administration and its officials, in any action with money from the general budgets of the Autonomous Community. My group would like to comment on what has been said about the committee of inquiry, on the seriousness of the questions analysed and on what has been found by the Basque Competition Authority, which was then ratified by the High Court of Justice: the concerted practice of market sharing in the provision of direct management school dining facilities by the Basque Government, and the formal legal-administrative endorsement that the competent administration has made in successive years to this conclusion, with the assumption of this situation in fact and without taking corrective measures. And it is clear that greater control by the Administration and the Department of Education, in particular throughout the documentation process, of administrative requirements in the bidding process, etc., would have avoided prices above normal. As stated in the opinion in the facts found, in the part on the consequences of illegal concerted action, "the main consequence and motivation of illegal concerted action between companies was to alter market prices in their own interest, in order to increase their profits unlawfully". To this conclusion, the Basque Competition Authority came to the conclusion that "the system of award existing between 2002 and 2014 has had an effect of maintaining prices above the price that would have resulted from a situation of effective competition in the market for collective catering services to public educational establishments with direct management eaters under the Department of Education". It's a serious matter! In addition to conciliation, the economic failure that this illegal concerted attitude has entailed in a multi-directional way; also the opinion, in the facts found, on the economic failure to the Administration and the families says that: "On the other hand, this commission had to decide whether the illicit distribution of the market by the contracting companies meant a loss to the families who used the catering service and/or to Basque citizenship in general. And in view of the cost overrun estimated in the previous paragraph, it is considered that property damage to the public coffers, to citizens and to the families of users is deemed to have been accredited, since it was found that the prices for which the menus were offered were more expensive than they would have been if this concertation had not taken place." And if we have detected these serious shortcomings and irregularities, the work of the committee could not be left in a simple detail, in a simple description of events, in generic recommendations, in global approaches or conclusions. It was necessary, of course, to concretize, to fine-tune, to detail... The draft opinion proposed by the chair of the committee, and a much better definition of what was being talked about, what was being investigated in order to arrive at the conclusions that we have reached and that we want to put to consideration and that we have adopted in the committee itself. And that is why we have analysed – we have done so rigorously – clearly the amendments proposed to the opinion by the Elkarrekin Group. We can, from our point of view, be based on a detailed study of the issues affecting the consultation between several companies in order to divide the market and alter prices, in order to obtain what we already know, which is an illicit benefit. These amendments, which today are the opinion, set out in a much more concrete and calculated way the harm that the practice of conciliation has caused to the public coffers, to society and to user families. That is why we share all the issues relating to the illegal concertation of companies. –clearly explained in the opinion – to the direct management system of the canteens, which is analysed, to the political responsibilities, to the consequences of illegal consultation, of course also to what has to do with the economic breakdown to the administration, the families and the citizens in general; these issues, all of them, were part of the facts found. We also share most of the recommendations, which broadened and elaborated those referred to in the initial text – in the draft initial opinion. Of course, they were the recommendations I will briefly address; they were interesting, and they focused and analysed issues that the Administration must address in order to avoid such issues. Finally, we also support and share the conclusions contained in Amendments Nos 72 to 75, which today are the conclusions of the opinion. The situation of illegal conciliation, coupled with the economic breakdown and what the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country itself described as – this is serious – lack of reaction, investigation, consultation or prevention by the Administration, by the Department of Education, in relation to this practice, makes it appropriate to set those political responsibilities, without any doubt. We also have to say – logically, we say in the opinion, and we all agree – that there has been no evidence of collaboration, collusion, in relation to specific economic issues, between the companies sanctioned and those responsible for the Basque Government during all that time. It is therefore important to follow the recommendations that the opinion submitted to this plenary on basic questions in order to understand, when studying, analysing and organizing and regulating the relationship between companies and the Administration for essential services such as this. We're talking about a school dining service. It is a service that is also part of education; it is an important and essential service, and it must, of course, be subject to much stricter control than it has been so far, in relation to some issues that are part of the recommendations of the opinion. We refer to the recommendations regarding the decentralised management of the service, recommendations on the price of the service, the recommendation on the elaboration of the specifications, of course on the previous announcements of the tender, on the division into lots – of what we have already talked about in the commission – on the contracting courts... Also – and it is essential – recommendations on ex post control Similarly, the opinion is closed with clear conclusions which respond to what has happened. The conclusions are there; four conclusions which state the following: the collusive practice committed by the contracting companies of the public school canteen management service between 2003 and 2015, sanctioned as a very serious violation of the Law on the Defence of Competition by the Basque Competition Authority, confirmed by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and endorsed by the Supreme Court, is accredited. An unjustified cost overrun in the management of the catering service between €70.8 million and €80.2 million between 2003 and 2015, of which between €28.7 million and €33.7 million would have been broken by the Department of Education, and between €42.1 million and €48.5 million would have been deducted from the families through the catering fees. As a third point of the conclusions, the political responsibility of the persons who, since 2003 and 2007, have occupied the Directorate of Economic Management, the Vice-Advisory of Administration and Services and the Department's Counsel, as responsible for the past inaction of the Administration in the face of signs of concertation and for their lack of response in the present face of the patrimonial breach suffered by the Administration, is credited. And as a fourth point of the conclusions, the opinion states that the need for significant changes in the direct management system for school canteens is recognised both in terms of the implementation of a decentralised management system and in terms of greater transparency in the financing of the system, in the technical criteria for future recruitment documents or in the need to establish rigorous mechanisms for monitoring and monitoring tenders. That is to say, clear conclusions, which respond to what has been investigated by the committee and which also place duties on the administration in relation to what needs to be improved and which identify clear responsibilities in relation to what has happened. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why the People's Parliamentary Group voted in favour of the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry, which we are considering in this plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Barrio, I think we've seen some kind of fake here. I refer not so much to your speech, but it gives the impression that some have prepared the conclusions before the committee of inquiry and then have wanted to adjust the conclusions to what they had already established. And we're going to try to establish what we believe does not correspond to the truth. It is not true, for example, at all that these practices have caused economic harm to families, and I want to start there. Because when last spring, in the middle of the election campaign, the People's Party decided to change its position to give air to unfounded suspicions, there were families who addressed this parliamentary group to refute this assumption with data. That is, for many years now, families have been paying the same, with a slight variation by effect of the CPI, nothing more. Therefore, I do not know on the basis of what art of birlibirloque, suddenly, is estimated a cost of 25 million euros of damage to the families, which does not correspond to the perception that the families themselves of the public schools users of the service have with the data of the receipt in hand. It seems to be a contrasting fact. Finally, this is because, among other things, in the competitions this price was fixed beforehand; another is the final price of the service for the Administration, which is true that it has suffered variations and caused economic damage to the Administration. But we want to make it clear from the outset, because it has been a recurring argument, in this and the previous legislature, that the cost overrun is between 60 and 80 million euros, data that the Competition Authority does not even endorse and that are not supported in any concrete way, beyond speculation, of economic-financial engineering, by any of the amendments. So, first of all, there has been no economic harm to families who received the service either in price or, of course, in quality or in food security; because, fortunately, while in some other networks, whether they are concerted, or are ikastolas, there have been, unfortunately, some cases of food poisoning, throughout this period there has been not a single incident in any public centre of the autonomous community, which establishes that there has been no case of food poisoning, and therefore there is no political responsibility to establish on a system that, of course, is better, but that responds – and I want to make it clear also – to the legality of the moment, and that it did not endanger the health of schoolchildren or the economy of families. But this, Mr Barrio, we all know; so do you. We know that because some of us have been on the committee of inquiry for almost two years, and we have listened to everyone we have asked to come. No one has apologized, no one, none of the counselors, neither before nor now. No one! What we have heard and documented is that, indeed, the facts complained of were carried out when the framework of competition was quite different from what we now have; that is, it was not a criterion that was in the Administration at the time, because it had not been established as such, and that the practices that today are seen as irregular at the time were not interpreted as such, because competition was not something to be taken into account when drawing up specifications; not by this Administration, by none. But it is false, as stated in the president's opinion, that they assume in Elkarrekin Podemos and the PP, that nothing was done, because it is also dropped that until 2012 there were no changes of any kind, and it is not true. The truth is missing again. Councilwoman Celaá explained how she wanted to change the model during her management; but, not only did Mrs Celaá explain it at the hearing, the minutes of the Basque Competition Authority itself also state that in 2010 a modification of the school catering service was launched, with an increase in the number of lots, to try to prevent the same companies from carrying the same lots. And this initial agreement was appealed by the contracting companies to the contractual remedies body of the Administration, which gave the companies the reason and forced them to suspend that procedure and return to the original situation. Therefore, there was a serious attempt to modify the award system, which could not be done, but the truth cannot be missed and to say that there was not even any intention to change the criterion. But it is also interesting to recall that it was the same government, that of Patxi López, and not by chance, that created the figure of the Basque Competition Authority, on an independent basis, to assert the European criteria in this field, when public contracts are produced. I mean, it's not that the Basque Competition Authority appeared by magic. No, no. There was a political will of a Government to create it. And it was that same authority that later detected the cases of collusive practices; practices that, by the way, no one discussed in the commission of inquiry, because, obviously, there was not only a report of the Basque Competition Authority, but a judicial decision of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. But the way has already changed and, in response to one of the initial complaints, which, by the way, we Socialists share with Euskal Herria Bildu on this issue, has been opened to direct management by schools, parents' associations; another is what they decide in each centre – whether to join this initiative or not – but that possibility remains open, and that seems to me to be an important novelty. We believe that it is false, as I have already pointed out, that there is economic damage to families. I say there hasn't been one. The price they had to pay for the service was set in advance, regardless of the cost to the public administration, which it did have to bear. At no time, as I have also pointed out, was the slightest food risk detected for the more than 100,000 schoolchildren who were attended annually by these dining rooms, since this began at the time of Mr Oliveri, Mr Campos, Mrs Iztueta or Mrs Celaá. It is clear that he was a guarantor of what was of interest and important – and I think it is good that it was – to all of them: to guarantee the absolute food security of the pupils of the public centres of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And that was fully achieved; no one has been able to discuss that aspect. And then we have a somewhat Kafkian situation – and I wouldn't like to refer to a party, but I have to do it – because, finally, right before the last election dates, in these conclusions that I am listing we coincided with the People's Party. We agreed, basically, on almost everything. This party at the time pushed this commission of inquiry, and we thought it had understood its meaning: to detect whether there were administrative responsibilities, since the penalties had been ruled out. But, here, elections came and, while the president of the People's Party in Spain accused the Socialists of pacting with those who have blood-stained hands, the Basque PP or the PP of the Basque Country – according to the definition of their own national president – agreed, with whom, then, with these same gentlemen, according to the political interests that each one has. Please note that those conclusions were agreed between the Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group, the representative on the committee of inquiry by the People's Party and endorsed by the spokesman for the People's Party, what a surprise, right? That, from night to morning, what up until then seemed good, what up until then was full coincidence in the conclusions, suddenly, in a few hours, changes just the opposite. And so we arrived at this plenary session, on the eve of a new election, so that three groups in this House can endorse what the committee of inquiry has not been able to prove. That is why I am going to reiterate the socialist position, which I believe is well known, and which neither excuses nor hides anything. The facts are the facts, both the judicial decision and the context in which the facts occurred. What did those conclusions that we presented together with the People's Party say? There had indeed been collusive practices on the part of companies. What did they say, too? That there had been an attempt – in 2010, in particular – to modify that system, expanding the number of lots to promote competition, which was appealed and won by the contracting companies, and had to be returned to the previous system. That there had been no cases of food poisoning, i.e. that food security had been absolutely guaranteed. And that, of course, companies were responsible for those practices and, therefore, it was acknowledged that the project and the award systems were clearly improveable and that a greater number of cautions had to be established and that they were much more rigorous and demanding when developing the following specifications. That is simply what was established. And that is a decision of a majority that we respect, as we logically expect them to respect the criticisms that others make of them. And we are not seeing the Socialists, in this joint vote by Bildu, Podemos and the People's Party, a kind of clamp or anything like that. What we see is that there is a political decision made that everything that serves a headline – and we are on the eve of a new election – serves to make opposition. And that this, unfortunately for them, can only add up for this: to block or paralyze, but, of course, to build alternative majorities seems not to. Because I doubt very much that the three who are going to put together today to approve this opinion have even a shared idea of what the best model of school dining is and, of course, it has nothing to do with what each of them thinks about what the future educational model of this country has to be. Therefore, I respect an important part of the conclusions – I reject others, as I said – but it seems to me that a little bit of electoral theatre has been wanted here today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Our group is speaking today, ladies and gentlemen, in support of the opinion adopted by the Committee of Inquiry. In February 2018, the plenary of this Parliament approved the creation of a committee of inquiry into the management of school canteens, on the proposal of the People's Group and our own. The objectives of this committee were two: on the one hand, to determine the possible political responsibilities that might exist and, on the other hand, to determine whether there was any economic failure for both the administration and the families. Today, October 10, 2019, a year and a half later, we consider that the commission of inquiry that we are promoting has fulfilled the mission entrusted to it: on the one hand, there was a breakdown for the Administration and for families and, on the other hand, there was a poor management of the service between 2003 and 2015. The report we're going to vote today will be verified in this report that seven companies have come to an illegal agreement for 12 years to divide and control the school menu market. And the prices they paid were higher, to increase their income, the necks of the public money and the necks of their families. Today's report answers several questions: what happened, why, and who or who allowed or enabled the case. Hor daude emaitzak; hemen daude emaitzak. Here are the results, and the results of this commission of inquiry agree with what the Basque Competition Authority decided in 2016 and with what the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country decided in 2017. They are not different, they are not contradictory: they are exactly the same. And this opinion shows, one, that the contracting companies agreed to split the market in order to alter the prices of the menus upwards, in order to obtain an illicit profit. And two, that, as a result, there was an unjustified cost in the dining system, in the dining service, of between 70 and 80 million euros, concordant, by the way, Mr. Pastor, with the figures that the Basque Competition Authority, the Basque Competition Authority itself, already attested in its day. And I want to say here and answer Mr Pastor, because this has been a statement he has repeatedly made, that families have not been harmed by this issue. Look, in 2003 families paid 2.95 euros for the menu. In 2012 they were already paying 5.20, almost twice as much. It is true that quotas then stabilized, it is true, from 2012 to 2015; but from 2012 to 2015, the government saved 16% and families saved zero. Families started 2003 paying 60% of the service, and ended 2015 paying 75% of the service. That is not illegal, I agree with you, because the system itself put in place in your day said that the service had to go to a self-financing. But this means that, throughout this whole space of time, it has been the families that have been progressively bearing the greatest cost of service and, therefore, within the global cost overrun, to them it is the families who have borne most of this cost overrun. And now I turn to responsibilities, to political responsibilities, because this committee of inquiry has no political conclusions, but it is a political committee, to determine which responsibilities were. Two types of responsibilities have been differentiated, Mr Pastor: before the investigation of the Basque Competition Authority and after the investigation of the Basque Competition Authority. They are conclusions, they are responsibilities, not criminal, because that has already been determined by the Prosecutor's Office, and they are not administrative responsibilities, they are political responsibilities of those who have the power to control the system; they are responsibilities for negligent control, for establishing questionable bidding criteria. And this was said by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country in one of its rulings, where it said: "Solvency requirements are confused with enforcement requirements." And the former director of the Basque Competition Authority herself stated that, if the specifications of the tender do not contain requirements proportional to the objective pursued by the service, it goes from discretion to arbitrariness. This is not said by the commission of inquiry, it was said by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, it was said by the Basque Competition Authority. And there was a passivity in controlling the execution of contracts. And it is true that the Socialists tried to do something, but it is also true that the courts brought him down. And, therefore, you said the exact word: "they tried." But they didn't get it. But they didn't get... With this, until 2012 – as the opinion says – nothing practical was done to try to avoid this collusive practice. But then, those who did do something to avoid collusive practice incurred another kind of responsibility, and it is the responsibility not to defend the public interest; because, when one has a firm judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, saying that there have been some companies that have agreed the market to increase prices, the first thing that has to be done – taking into account, among other things, the mandate of this Parliament, given in March 2016 – is to see to what extent this cost overrun has occurred and to try to recover it by all possible means. And that's what the Cabinet or the Department of Education didn't do from 2017 until here, which are the ones who currently hold ownership of the department. And, therefore, they have a political responsibility for not having committed that part of their responsibility. I shall now dwell on a question which, perhaps in today's vote, will be smaller, but which, to our group, seems interesting to you. There have been two amendments which have not been accepted in the committee, which the Group of the European People's Party thought it appropriate not to take into account and which, however, I would like to point out, Mr Barrio, that these are two amendments in which we have had agreements with the People's Party at the time, and we would therefore ask you to reconsider: One of these is the extension of pilot programmes for shared dining between centres and the Department of Education to other centres that may be interested. That is Amendment No 39. And number 40 is the recovery of school kitchens, because I also have to say here that the fact that our system has increasingly depended on the hot caterine system – which for the Administration results in between 30 and 35% more expensive – in turn has affected greater control by the system's caterine companies. We therefore find two interesting amendments to defend here today. Our work has come so far, this is where the study committee's work has come. We are proud that we have fulfilled the ends which the Parliament established: We've answered the questions that the parliament established, we've explained what happened, we've defined political responsibilities and we've measured economic damage. And we're so happy that we've managed to get the support of the political teams on that road, and we hope we'll get the support from the committee today that we can bring this last report forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. EHGG reps for the vote. Eubertarians. A lachaga, Mr. Lachaga!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u9	Well, thank you, ma'am. Good morning, Mr. President, good morning, members of the legislature, all good days. I have bad news for all those who are going to adopt the opinion that is being put to the vote today. And the bad news is that they have run out of cabbage: they will not be able to express any more juice on the theme of school dining; they will not be able to handle this process; they will not be able to prolong it any longer. They have been around this committee for almost two years, and some of the scenes starred by their actors are more typical of a plot comedy than a serious parliament. Out of respect and education, I am not going to cite all the examples that come to my head right now, but those of us who have been in the committee know them, including interested leaks to the press in search of a headline, Mrs Ugarte; press briefings before meetings with supposed secret deliberations, Mr Becerra, and finally, sudden changes of position, after agreeing on an amendment to the whole with the socialist and nationalist groups. And that was addressed to Mrs. De Bengoechea, but I see she had to apologize, inexcusably. A spurt, a veritable demeanor, who was just chasing, he was chasing, kicking Urkullu's government in the ass. It was pursuing its wear and tear, not improving public procurement, or the management of school dining rooms, or anything to do with public service or service to citizens. We are facing the last act, the last act of an ill-conceived play, and I am sorry to tell you, Mr Becerra, Mr Barrio, pitifully interpreted. Intending to wear down the Urkullu government, they have worn themselves out, ladies of EH Bildu, gentlemen of Elkarrekin Podemos, and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. I think, in short, that what has happened here is this: The lack of credibility, the manner in which things took place and the attitude of opposition, was unnecessary. Besides, seeing that the facts which have been investigated are confirmed in the court, the work of the committee has been merely hypocrisy; the performance was made to show that the exhibitions and documents were treating with severity and seriousness, though all was decided beforehand. And why do I say it was all decided? Someone can tell me I've passed four villages with that statement, but no. Mr Becerra says, or said at the time, and it is literal: "The direct management system of the school canteens established by the Department of Education not only prevents the organizational autonomy of the centers, it not only goes to the detriment of the quality of the menus, it not only harms the local economy, but also, between 2003 and 2015, it caused a heritage breach of up to 84 million euros to the public arks". End of date. Later, Mr. Becerra says "that this course was carried out passively by the Department of Education and that thousands of Basque families were harmed by the negligence of the Department of Education. And that, of course, there were political responsibilities." Judged and sentenced. It is very similar, I would say, to the conclusions of the opinion that we are going to vote on today, or that they are going to vote on today. Equal-equal, I'd say. Do you know what the problem is, Mr. Becerra? The problem is that these words were spoken on February 8, 2018. It's in the minutes. When the establishment of the committee had not yet been decided or voted upon. You had fortune tellers and we hadn't fallen into the account. He has acted as a true flute player for Hamelin, and he has been bought a story. Both for some political and electoral emergencies, and the other for their historical animating the party I represent. In any case – and I have to say so – spurious interests. But, given what Becerra said in February 2018 and what he says in October 2019, should this commission have been created? Really? Make us waste our time, when the conclusions were already written? Call 19 attendees, don't listen to any of them? I'm sorry, a yes, a yes that you've been listened to. Seriously, Mr. Becerra, we could have saved the process. Mr Pastor has already commented, but what has been experienced in this commission has been a farce, it has been a true farce commission. And today we have some opportunity to look into our eyes, but I am sure that someone who will vote in favour of this opinion will not be able to do so. You are going to adopt this opinion, but this opinion is not the truth revealed, and you know it. The truth, moreover, is not voteable. The truth is the truth, says Agamenón or his scumbag, as Mrs Bengoechea said on one occasion in the committee itself. Here in this opinion there is no truth; there are no proven facts. How pretentious you are, speaking of proven facts, established facts. Nothing has been proved here at all. The truth has nothing to do with a certain correlation of forces, or certain alliances or parliamentary majorities, however strange and unnatural they may seem to us. And that is what is happening here today: a parliamentary alliance that says what it says, but it is not the truth. And I say all this as an introduction to what really brings us here today, which is nothing other than the outgoing opinion of the non nata. As has been said by some other spokesman, the chairman of the committee drew up a report which did not involve too many accessions. And the final result is the result of the acceptance of all the partial amendments tabled by Mr Becerra. Zorionak! EH Bildu and the People's Party were willing to pay a toll, which they initially refused. They'll know why. But we all sense it, don't we? There each one with his conscience. The document is full of half-truths, more treacherous than pure lies; partial truths with a single purpose: to harm the political adversary. The farce consists in the manipulation and perversion of data, with phrases chosen in volulapluma, that the only thing they claim is to shoot down the enemy and that they do not bring anything positive to society, nor to how to do politics, Mr Becerra, at the service of this country and its citizens. The show is staged to look like it was analyzing the appearances and documents provided – it's rigor, it's the purest rigor – when everything was dictated beforehand, as I said. But the facts investigated have already been confirmed in court, with a clear conclusion that none of the groups have echoed enough: there is no connivance between the Administration and the sanctioned companies. I repeat: there is no connivance between the Administration and the sanctioned companies. Apart from that, you don't believe what you're going to approve either. Can you tell me what practical consequences your conclusions will have? That would be interesting. Most of the testimonies heard in committee and also the reports cast many of the conclusions presented on the ground – I was going to comment to Mrs Bengoechea to see if that was true, but I see that she is still not here; I don't know why. The President herself of the Basque Competition Authority stated in July that the figure of EUR 80 million they display every time they have occasion is not based on any study. What was repeated over and over again in the committee, and evidenced in the documentation, is as follows: First, that the responsibility for what happened lies with the companies, and not with the Administration. It has been shown that there was no participation of government officials or positions and that there was no connivance, as I said before. Secondly, that the awards have always been made in accordance with the principles of public procurement and with the relevant technical reports; the existence of a collusion pact was not deduced by the department's officials. Thirdly, the Administration has in this case been the injured one, but this economic damage has not fallen on the families, as they pay an established fee, regardless of the tender price. Since 2012 – it has also been said by the Pastor – the quotas of the families have not been changed, but you are wrong that it is wrong, like the ineffable Paco Martínez Soria, to insist on this issue. None of the attendees, none of them, endorsed that thesis. Fourthly, this Government, with Counsellor Uriarte at the head, changed the rules and bidding procedures to avoid cases such as those prosecuted and to be more assertive. The change began in 2013, with little accountability, and the new contract was launched in 2015; a new procurement model, which has the backing of the Basque Competition Authority. In addition, last year 508 audits were carried out in dining rooms, without prior notice, to analyze the degree of compliance with the contract terms, the quality of the menus and the sanitary conditions. The quality was accredited. By the way, among the changes driven, to name but one, is the increase in lots from 10 to 18, smaller lots to which smaller companies can and will be able to access. All these issues have been obscured or hidden, bordered in the report, but have been explained profusely by the participants, who have also explained the difficulties of implementing a complex and demanding system that guarantees equality and food quality, and food security, in all parts of our autonomous community. Those testimonies are relegated. Why? Well, naive of me, because the commission wasn't set up for that. It was created to give names, raw meat in the public window; you just did it Mr Becerra: Angeles Iztueta and Tontxu Campos, by Eusko Alkartasuna; Isabel Celaá, of the Socialist Party, and the current advisor Cristina Uriarte. The report places in all of them the political responsibility for not having detected the concertation of companies and for not having designed more rigorous control mechanisms. All members of the board of directors have been responsible since 2003, the year to which the commission's investigation dates back. You have given a twist of script that, well, some as I say have bought it from you; but those who buy that story cannot give a parable to such responsibility. Do they? I don't know the reasons... We all know that we are in a game of majorities and politics of room, of politics I would say, of room, more destined to harm the enemy than to really clarify the truths. It seems to me an indecency to stain the name of all of them, although, like Euzko Abertzaleak, I have to make a burning defense, in particular, of the work of Councilwoman Uriarte and her team. The chairman of the commission, Larraitz Ugarte, wanted to make us believe that Cristina Uriarte was the most responsible for inaction and lack of control; little has mattered that the facts investigated were from years before the management of the current team; little has mattered that it was the current advisor Uriarte who introduced in 2014 a series of improvements to increase competition and gain in transparency; little has mattered to accuse a government of actions in which she has not participated. He didn't participate, Mr. Becerra. All this has been obviated and intended to be bleached, placing the responsibilities on all the advisors at the head of the department, on all, without exception. We insisted, as soon as we arrived at the Government and, as soon as possible, made changes; Councilwoman Uriarte and her team made changes. There was no lack of response, as the opposition groups have intended to move, and in particular you, Mr Becerra. There was, yes, a very determined action to be able to increase competition between companies, and to do so – and this is important – without undermining the quality of service. On the other hand, the attitude of PP and EH Union deserves some comment. PP and EH are making fun of each other these days in front of the crowd, but they always join together when they want to fight EAJ. The conduct of PP deserves a severe critique, because he has abandoned in one corner the work of the commission, and the study and analysis of the commission, and their representatives, Juana Bengoheche, the conclusions made and agreed on. And now he's decided to make a speech hard. This can only be understood because PP has left aside the contents of the process of investigation, and has only looked into other matters by investigation. PP is not thinking in general interest, nor in the management of public contractions or dining-rooms. PP only thinks how he'll punish EAJ and accuse him of treason. The diagnosis made by Juana Bengoechea and the agreement reached with the two groups supporting the Basque Government are now not valid for the purposes they pursue. And that's why, people completely outside the commission and without the knowledge of who did work in it build another story, which, by chance or not, is the same as that of EH Bildu. We cannot do politics from revenge and revenge, gentlemen of the People's Party. In this strategy of attack on the Basque Government, EH Bildu and PP are needed and fed back. They are political enemies who do not hesitate to agree when they are interested. They fight, they veto, before public opinion, we have seen it this week in Galdakao, but they do not hesitate to go hand in hand when they are interested. Pure political cynicism. EH Bilduk orine art egin dituen urrats guztiek kalkulu politicoko bati wasntzuten diote. Ezer ez da kasuala izan Larraitz Ugarte president andrearen jokaeran. Nothing is accidental in the conduct of President Ugarte: she filtered the conclusions at the end of March, at the door of the general election campaign; she convened the commission on 6 May, before the start of the second election campaign for the fora, municipal and European; she postponed the vote on the opinion because she saw that there was a risk that the work of that forum would be completed without any conclusion; and she again called the commission just in the last week of the previous session, knowing that at least until October it would not be possible to go to full. Today, that's where we are. Let's not be fooled. Everything responds to a time-measured strategy. When you've seen an angry PP, you've taken the opportunity to attract him to your positions and secure a sufficient majority. I'm closing up, President. For Euzko Abertzaleak, it is clear that we are facing a political trial. The only motivation the opposition groups have had was not to think about the interests of families, the quality of service or free competition. Its purpose was to discredit the present Government. To this end, they have not hesitated to distort the true meaning of a committee of inquiry, to distort the institutions, the Parliament, making it an instrument of political opportunism. They did not care about reality; they did not care about the testimonies of the 19 people who appeared, because nothing that was said there was reflected in the report of conclusions. His conclusions were already made in advance to wear down the PNV, the Basque Government and the lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u10	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u11	Thank you very much, President. Look, Mr. Latxaga, it's just that you haven't been... Mr Pastor, at least, has acknowledged some of the issues that have taken place in connection with the economic breakdown, with the consultation of companies, and has been able to refer to and have made a critical analysis of the administration's actions as well. You, Mr Latxaga, have made a regrettable statement in relation to what it has been like to call the work of a committee of inquiry. Mr Latxaga, we have made parliamentarianism; you may or may not like it, and until the last moment and today. And to parliamentarianism you have called it raw meat, theater, farce, revanchism, room politics... Look, we're working on texts, on documents, on political agreements. We change our attitude or analyze issues, either convince or understand new issues, or someone brings us things that we really understand and really serve to improve systems, Mr Latxaga. I mean, you understand that you can't come here to do a retahíla of disqualifications, without going into the matter. I do not think the opinion has been read. I do not think that he has analysed – either of the two speakers in this case – the annexes that come in the opinion, which prove exactly the economic failure, which prove it from a point of view that we have understood or assumed; that is, it has not been said that no, no one in the rostrum has disqualified those annexes and studies that are made in relation to what is part of what the Basque Competition Authority said. That is to say, we have not been invented by the others and, of course, by Mr Becerra, who I believe has done a great job in this committee of inquiry. That is to say, in that sense, I believe that Mr Latxaga was already talking about political opportunism in the end; that is, he has put on the table a whole series of disqualifications without going into the matter, in the matter that we have entered the others. I have talked about the issues, what the facts are. Political opportunism, no; it is an opportunity for the Administration, it is an opportunity for the Administration, because I told you at first that we have made an opinion – it was with what I started my first intervention – solid, uncritical and constructive, and that is what I want to keep as the iter. The economic failure is perfectly explained, Mr Pastor, in the opinion and its annexes; I think it is very clearly explained; one can argue, one can expect a logical explanation, there is an explanation of calculation, mathematics even, in relation to what has been the economic failure, from the data and from the calculations that have also made institutions as relevant as the Basque Competition Authority. What do you mean, there's been no economic breakdown? For the administration and for families; Mr Becerra has explained it perfectly before. And it is precisely that Basque Authority of Competition that bases the calculation of that breach. And besides, how can you say that the Administration...? That is, but if it was the High Court of Justice, the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, who said that there has been a lack of reaction in the Administration, a lack of investigation, a lack of consultation and a lack of prevention. That was said by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. Of course, he has not qualified: that is no crime for which to condemn, but that has been the attitude of the Administration in relation to that issue. I know it hurts, but you have to answer those questions, and it had to have been a little bit thinner in relation to what has been a parliamentary job, which you may or may not like but which is there. If there has been harm in general, and there has been harm for families who, of course, would have paid less if the prices had been lower. I mean, that's clear... Analyze the annexes, the two of the opinion, and listen to the explanations given by Mr Becerra. We work on the commission, we listen to the testimonies, we see the documents, and at the end of the commission and at that time you all qualify... Not all of you, Mr Latxaga, fundamentally, describes it as a tragedy, for no, we saw an opportunity to analyse data, amendments, that is, something that is part of what we all see, when a bill or a non-legislative proposal is presented, in this case a commission of inquiry, where some parliamentary group brings issues that are relevant, the result of important and relevant work, and that we salute and that we do ours. That's what we've done, Mr. Pastor. We made that analysis in our parliamentary group, given the new data, the new references of the committee of inquiry and the amendments by Elkarrekin Podemos, and we are proud to reach agreements, of course we are! That's what happened. That is, we were convinced that, from what the Basque Competition Authority and from what the courts had said in relation to what had happened, from testimonies also from individuals, which have been relevant in relation to setting up this commission of inquiry and giving the voice of alarm in relation to what had happened... Well, we got to work and, of course, that was our job, and that was what we're proud of. And I say again: there are some conclusions, that is, that you have maximized, are there and are part of the agreements that we have reached and of what we have analysed in relation to the facts found. Of course they are made known, but if they are perfectly explained! They're not facts, they're... No, no. These facts have been found; the opinion of the committee of inquiry must be read! The opinion, Mr Latxaga, must be read out of the record first, because it frames the question of the facts found, and of course it must be seen that one of the fundamental parts of the opinion is the recommendations. Recommendations on all these issues in relation to bidding, on all issues, on sanctions, on the courts, on all that we have said before, on a managerial capacity and on conclusions. Of course there have been political responsibilities. Someone was talking about a political trial. Of course, which is not a criminal trial, of course. This isn't a criminal trial. You may call it whatever it is, but in the end we speak politically, we describe politically a situation. It's not a trial. It's a commission of inquiry. Anyway, it seems you haven't figured out what it is yet. There have been many commissions of inquiry in this House. I know that committees of inquiry are abrupt moments in parliamentary life; they are, they are. Because some approve of them, and others don't like them, they are. And because they qualify politically as actions of former or current government leaders; they are. These are abrupt moments, but we must assume them; we must assume them, Mr Latxaga. And of course, that is what we have tried to do, and of course what we are proud of is that we have been able to reach agreement on amendments and to act in a purely parliamentary sense. I mean, Mr. Latxaga, this is not a theater, this is not a farce, this is not room politics, this is not raw meat. This is parliamentaryism, and that is where we will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u12	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u13	Good. After hearing all of you, I agree that there was no need to set up this commission of inquiry, because the substance of this investigation had already been resolved by both the Basque Competition Authority and the courts. And that's what caused the change of model. In fact, it has already been attempted in the previous legislature, at your request, gentlemen of the PP as well, to set up a committee of inquiry on the subject of school dining rooms. Bildu did not accept, because they were proposed, and he started to open his hand for the direct management of the dining rooms by the public centers. Which is a conclusion that also appears, but was already assumed by the Education Administration at that time. And I, Mr Becerra, haven't seen that 80 million Basque Competition Authority report anywhere. Nowhere, and I've heard the audience, just like you. They have spoken of an economic failure; it is also quantified by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country and, by the way, substantially reduces that economic failure. And of course, let us see: it is not true that nothing was done, because you have acknowledged here today, in the rostrum, that the Socialists have indeed attempted a change, and where is that recognition in the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry? In the committee of inquiry, his conclusions only say that nothing was done during the whole process, during all the time of investigation, which is not true. So, if you say that you have done an absolutely rigorous thing, it seems that here you have been a little less rigorous, but not only because Mrs Celaá said it and detailed it in her appearance, – I am tired of repeating it in the committee – but it is that the Basque Competition Authority itself in its minutes establishes that time in 2010 when a change in the award procedure was launched; specifies also what that change consisted of, and also says that it was appealed and won by the contracting companies. So, anyway, that doesn't show up because you didn't want it to show up. And that doesn't seem like a clean game to me. I insist: you will do all the calculations you want in your annexes. You must bother to take a family from any municipality in Euskadi that has attended public centres in the last eight or ten years, and you will check what I say; there has been no change in the price of families in that period at least, except the CPI. Therefore, it does not seem to be as much as you defend here ardently. And then again, I repeat: the issue of the direct management of the centres for school dining – which we also find interesting – is no contribution from the committee of inquiry; it was already assumed, at least as a pilot experience, by the Administration. And it's true, I have to admit that Bildu was more cautious when it came to putting forward the reflections, probably because of the four advisors who were being investigated – one was not, by the way, because that part was left out of that matter – and he set out with Mr Oliveri, then continued with Mr Campos, then with Mrs Iztueta and finally with Mrs Celaá. And except for Mrs. Celaá, all of them militants of Eusko Alkartasuna, who are now integrated into Euskal Herria Bildu. That probably motivated them to be somewhat more cautious when it comes to putting forward initiatives. But, look, Mr Barrio, what I cannot buy from you under any circumstances is that you have had a serious, rigorous and scientific performance in this committee. It is not true, because for a year and a year your representative in the committee of inquiry, who has been following – you have not but she has – each and every one of the appearances that have been taking place, came to an agreement with this party and this party of this bench on certain conclusions, and we agreed in the analysis and conclusions. And you won't tell me that from night to morning – I say, literally, from night to morning – it turns out that you do a very deep reflection, re-analyze everything that had happened during the year and a half, and conclude that you had been wrong until then. The previous year and a half had been fooling around, and we had fooled them. And then they change from white to black, and they decide that what they had up to that moment decided, reflected and signed – and signed not only by one, but by two representatives of the People's Party – is no longer worth anything, and then we are going to join in the car of these gentlemen because it was bad for public opinion that the People's Party, which raised the hare – by the way, in the previous legislature, by Mr Oyarzábal's mouth – had tired of talking about the breakdown of Basque families, etc., etc., that it was a very expensive price, that we were entrepreneurs, and then, finally, that was very ugly on the eve of an electoral period and then the chip had to be changed. And I understand that it's up to you to do the paperwork to defend what you weren't defending at the time. But that is the reality of the facts. I do not want to be bloody and I have not wanted to be, but it is incomprehensible, illogical, indefensible what you have done with this commission: on Monday you sign and on Tuesday you withdraw the signature, and you sign the opposite of what you have been signing until then. And what do you want to tell me? That the People's Parliamentary Group met throughout that previous night to analyze, discern and conclude that they had done all the wrong work and had to say something different? Man, please! It's an insult to intelligence that you've wanted to do here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u14	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u15	Let's see, Mr.Latxaga, you attribute to me a capacity to be Hamelín's flute player, who I also imagine will give it to me retroactively, because, if I thought one thing in 2018, I imagine it would be because I had managed to convince the Basque Competition Authority in 2016 and the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country in 2017 of what I said in 2018. Indeed, I spoke of 84 million. I didn't just talk about 84 million, up to 130, because I didn't have the government's data. It was necessary to set up a commission of inquiry so that we could conclude that it was not so much the money, which was only between 70 and 80 million. It gives me, personally, a capacity to wear down the lehendakari government. I have neither the capacity nor the intention either of this Government nor of Mr Ibarretxe or of Mr López, who are also within the period under investigation. What I do intend to do is, as long as I am in this Parliament, to highlight those cases of mismanagement, which this government also has, as all governments have. With what practical consequences? Well, I don't know. I would like something to change, of course, because if we have come to endorse an independent authority, such as the Basque Competition Authority, a High Court of Justice and a parliamentary committee of inquiry, the same, exactly the same, the same diagnosis and the same result, because its thing is that something changes. But I have neither greater intention nor greater hope. But I have to give him some bad news. A commission of inquiry is not at the service of the Government; it is at the service of the country. Whether you like it or not. And I can admit that the truth is interpretable, but I do not admit that it is only the right one when the government interprets it. The Government had the opportunity, it had the option, to do what this commission of inquiry has done, because I agree with Mr Pastor, which might not be necessary. In March 2016, this majority Parliament adopted a motion calling, in paragraph 2, for the Basque Government to consider whether property damage has occurred. Where's that studio? It's been three and a half years. And he also urged the legal services to initiate as many legal actions as necessary to compensate the public coffers for the damage caused. Where are those stocks? You sign this, Mr. Pastor, eh? It also urged the Basque Government to intensify its work with the various actors involved, with the ultimate aim of adapting the model of management of school canteens. We continue with the same management model, three and a half years later. His problem, in this case that of his group, is that he hoped that this committee of inquiry would end up like many others, in the service of the Government, and that has not happened to them. You tabled a full amendment on 12 April, when the deadline was 2 May. And our group tabled its amendments on 23 April. By the way, partial amendments, not all of them, so that they could be debated and approved or not by all the members of the group. I must expressly thank the Group of the European People's Party, in view of our amendments, for changing its voting intention, because that is the sensible thing: to see what each group proposes to see if we can build something, beyond the partial truths that are sometimes set up to cover up and move from points on cases of mismanagement. But this time – and this is the bad news – they have gone wrong, and it is not because of the responsibility of this humble Member of Parliament, but because of the inability you have had to respond to a matter that is a major scandal and that you should have stopped yourself several years ago. And if they haven't, now they find themselves. And it's not the responsibility of the rest of the groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u16	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u17	Thanks again, ma'am. After hearing the last speeches, I think it is more than obvious, more than obvious, that we are facing a political trial. Carmelo Barrio himself has confessed. I believe that it has become clear here, with all the interventions that the members of Elkarrekin Podemos and the People's Party have had, that the only motivation that the opposition groups have had was not the interest of the families, nor the quality of service, as I have said before, nor the free competition, Mr Barrio; it is a pure and hard strategy to wear down the government. And you, when you need to wear down the government, look and find yourselves, and don't hesitate to compromise when you're interested, even if you're publicly led to kill. They practice remarkable political hypocrisy. They fight dialectically, but share the same goal: to undermine the credibility of a government to which Basque citizenship supports in a majority, and they do not get it in the polls and seek it through strategies to attack the Executive and the PNV; we see it every day in this Parliament. Mr. Barrio had a couple of things to say. I am very grateful that it is you who, in your own right, is the one who makes it clear to me that I did not go through with my speech, that I did not come to the conclusions, that I did not read the report. Precisely, do you have to tell me that? Look, Mr. Arruabarrena and I have been a year and a half attending all the appearances and requesting all the documentation. Do you know what you've done, Mr. Barrio? Kind of like a zero-to-nothing thing. You have appeared there at the last minute, so that you are the one who criticizes me for that you have your that one. Mrs Bengoechea, who is actually in fact, is the one who swallowed all the appearances and studied all the documentation, and the one who somehow made a diagnosis, a diagnosis according to what she was seeing and what she was reading every day; not you, Mr Barrio. I mean, you tell me, well, honestly, look, out of education and out of respect for your partner Mrs. Bengoechea, I'm going to save myself some other qualification. All right, you've been insulting the intelligence of the members of this House. You know, we all know, what happened in this commission of inquiry and what was the fall of the People's Party horse. We all know that. Don't talk to me about conscientious work. Please, a little more respect for this House. Mendacity, there is no need for a mendacity as it is exhibiting here today, please. As I said, the one who swallowed all the appearances was Mrs Bengoechea, and, if anyone has any doubts to consult the minutes and the videos, which are available to all those who so desire, and you, as I say, because you intervened very little, to say nothing. You, Mr. Barrio, are a faithful soldier – I have to admit it – and you have had to swallow a frog; point, admit it. But don't come here telling us, making confabulations that have absolutely nothing to do with reality and accusing us of not entering the debate. But if the debate was rigged in advance, if Mrs Ugarte witnesses that the proposals... We have made proposals, which the People's Party and you personally have not made any. So we've had some correspondence, and we know what we're talking about. Please, a little respect for this House. Good service, a faithful soldier, but so far. On the part of Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr. Pastor has commented that, indeed, the most prudent in terms of political responsibilities has been Euskal Herria Bildu and the members of Euskal Herria Bildu in that commission, and I have to say that perhaps that is so, but it is such a pollution that they have to the Basque Nationalist Party that, so as to throw dirt on the seats of the groups that support the Government, they have no packaging or scruples in staining the name of two councillors who now militate in their political formation. The trajectory and testimonies of Mr Campos and Mrs Iztueta were more than eloquent, but no matter what, they endorse a political responsibility that only you see, without mercy. Finally, Mr Becerra, congratulations on the fact that you have become, as I have said before, the protagonist; you see yourself at ease, you see yourself at ease, in the role of government roof, outside your txoko txokito You're making a name for yourself...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u18	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u19	They needed all the parts of someone to cure him, and he cured him. They bought him his story, which apparently hit him. Although his account, as well as his fortune - tellers, is lacking in sincerity and full of begging. As much as a parliamentary majority voted that it is now night, the truth is that we are in full daylight. The same goes for this opinion, the same; exactly the same. And it seems to me very licit that you want to make a name for yourself, but not at the expense of anything, not at the expense of an inquisitorial witch hunt.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote together both the amendments or two corrections proposed by the Podemos team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u21	So neither corrections have been accepted. They vote for the committee. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u22	So it's agreed that from 2003 to NewsMUGHO in the dining room of the school management, the process and the downcoming political responsibilities are assigned to investigate. Next, we'll go to the vote. The representative of the EH team, Mme. lópez de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u23	Yes, thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Gaur, "zaurietan musu" bidaltzen diegu Altsasuko gasteei, guassoei eta herriari. Reduction of sentences cannot conceal the lack of rights and guarantees that have led to this situation. Musu bat, Altsasu. Eta gaurko eztabaidara itzuliz, boto-alpena egingo diot. This isn't a trial. And I also say to you that I in this House do not want to throw a game of mus, I do not want to because there would surely be too many traps. This committee of inquiry has been an opportunity, this committee of inquiry has been a necessity, because this Parliament is to monitor the work of the government. So simple. It is not a trial, it is not a bad thing, it is that it should be the usual thing that, if something is not done right, it joins a commission of inquiry, without any complex; without any complex, Mr Latxaga. It is a committee of inquiry, which has been a work of almost two years; it has been very serious, it has been positive. Euskal Herria Bildu has not looked elsewhere; he could have done it, but no. We have been on top, we have been responsible, because Euskal Herria Bildu in this case has made politics with capitals, no partyism. I'm sorry: if it's wrong to lose, it's not our business. What's more, we're happy and happy. We are happy because it was necessary and because, at last, it is on the table what it has been, four very concrete conclusions. This is a guarantee of transparency. It is up to us to do so, too. And the conclusions are clear. An example of the functioning of a commission of inquiry; a lot of people have passed through it, and seeing it as an opportunity. The conclusions? Absolutely clear: it has been confirmed that collusive practice in companies has existed; we do not just say so, the High Court of Justice also says so, the Supreme Court says; the surcharge is credited, that is and above all falls in the pocket of families; the political inaction is credited, and that is the most serious of all. Indeed, the Administration, behind a complaint, had not moved a record; it was looking elsewhere. It is such a simple inaction, a lack of control and a lack of effectiveness. It is, but nothing happens, that is what this committee is about, and for the administration this has to be an opportunity to finally put on the batteries and see it that way. And the last one is also credited with the need for a change of dining model. So simple. A model change that has indeed come from 2003 to 2019 and that the Administration itself is already taking steps; in that we trust: take steps. I think we should stay with that; it is more, we stay with that: with lack of control, with inaction, with looking away, but today a door is closed. Indeed, we close this committee of inquiry; a door closes, but a window opens, and I, as Administration, would also like to see it, so simple, because there is an opportunity to collect those recommendations and to put them into action. Another model is not only possible, but it is already necessary. Everyone is asking, also the people affected, also the families, also the workers; all people who are related to school dining are asking for a change, and now. Euskal Herria Bildu has a proposal; we have already commented on it several times and we will have an opportunity soon to discuss the proposals of the dining room model, because it is exhausted, and the committee of inquiry has told us that: recommendations to change things, so that the equal opportunities in the specifications in public procurement are for all and all under the same conditions. So simple. The school dining model will have to be decentralized, it will have to give the right to decide who actually uses it, it will have to give autonomy to the school communities, because it has to be this way, it has to improve, it has to be an opportunity also for the territory, for the people, for everyone who uses them. By the way, days ago, pacts were signed here: climate emergency pact against climate change emergency, a strategy against childhood obesity, another pact with initiatives for healthy food... Let's hold hands. Eaters can be a pact; they can be a pact and an opportunity. I'm done. I'm going to have plenty of time: I thought I wasn't going to have enough, but I'm going to have plenty of time. We ask for political responsibility – I repeat –; Euskal Herria Bildu has made politics in capitals; no matter who was, no matter what. We believe that we have to be responsible with those who have been and with whom we are; in that we are. Euskal Herria Bildu extends his hand to the Government to continue working, because we have no choice but to make a pact, not only for the dining rooms, but for the territory and for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u24	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Second point on the subject list: "Go and collect the proposition as a parlamentary group, concerning a new permanent plan of impact to the long-term unemployed. Discipline and final resolution. Madame Kortja's words are yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u25	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, all of you. When, for the first time, we had brought the initiative of a long-continued impact to the state of labourers into this legislature, we brought to this gate conversations with long-continued idlers in some newspapers: "They've forgotten about us," said one of the people; "they've left us alone, and I'm not going back to work." Those who have been driven out of the trade of a crisis are getting infected in unemployment, and they feel forgotten, and this is a reality in ours. a specialized reality, a reality that affects the half of our unemployed, the 60,000 people. Most experts tell us that our countrymen have certain particular characteristics, that ours are a very ancient community, and that they are very imperfect hubarcians. And likewise, that the weight of industry, and a hundred productives more advanced, are opposed to long-continued labourers. And that our rates of inertia are even higher, and in this sense our unemployment also has peculiar features, it is very long-continued, and is very concentrated on people over 45 years, and is also concentrated on older and older people. These people, over 45 years of age, have a long experience of work, but they're poor and disaffectioned, or, changed to the demand for the labor trade, a very depreciated crime. We must add another aspect, namely that the lower unemployment rate makes it more difficult to reduce the number of those who have been seeking employment for the longest time, because, for the most part, they are structural difficulties, and there are many difficulties in rejoining some activity. The latest EPA report continues to put us at the forefront of the chronisation of unemployment in the State. Of the data from the last Labour Force Survey published in August, attention was drawn to the chronification of unemployment recorded especially in two very different communities in terms of its economic structure: Euskadi and Extremadura. The difference is that our unemployment rate is below 10%, and that of Extremadura is 20.5. And we are also at the head of the European level, far from the European average of long-term unemployment, which stands at 22%, and, as is almost always the case with employment, far, far from the long-term unemployment rates presented by countries with a wealth-generating capacity like ours. And, yes, things have changed, so it is. And, yes, since we put this initiative in February, the data we received from him, quaditatively, has improved. It is true, indeed, that during the last few months the rate of long-continued labourers has been reduced to ours. And good, very good, that's it. In May, Sara de la Rica insisted that, in one of his latest reports about the trade, the numbers of long-continued labourers and the number of the most brief durations were equal. The occupation mentioned in its report about unemployment in August 2019, and, looking at the whole year, it was about 11,97% of the long-term unemployed, although the report in September reports of a small climb. During the last few months, as unemployment has had a remarkable tendency to descending in Europe, the purses of long-continued labourers have been largely lowered throughout the state, and the current has carried us away. We're not special at that. And as improvement is indisputable, it cannot be denied that the purse of long-continued labourers is very large in ours: 60,000 of them are long-term unemployed. We are far from the situation we had in 2007; for example, before the economic crisis broke out: the long-term unemployment rate was then 16%, and is now around 50. In any case, when a 56,000 people are moving forward in a significant way, there are people who are losing their ability to do their jobs, who are against 60,000 people's time, and still have a life of 20 years ahead of them. And that's all when the symptoms of a financial crisis are already undeniable. This is a reality of our unemployment: it is crude, special, and structural; it is not consistent. CES defined it as one of our most obvious weaknesses in his report of the employment strategy, and therefore, because it is a crude, special, and structural state, special responses, specialized... it requires listening, as all agents and experts have often repeated to us. Yes, Sara de la Rica, whether CES, in the report of his employment strategy, report all that. And also, in the middle operation of the employment strategy. Euskal Herria Bildu has insisted throughout this legislature on the need to give an effective response to these people, who gradually see how their human capital as workers is deteriorating, to those people who are losing skills and who are increasingly having difficulty escaping unemployment. Three were the attempts to move this Government and the groups that support it to an agreement to develop a defined and designed strategy to give specific, differentiated, specialized and priority response to the long-term unemployed. And indeed, in June 2018, we reached an agreement, a good agreement reached unanimously. And, well, three were the attempts, therefore, that the Government should stop that strategy of putting all people with special difficulties in getting into one bag, and focus and develop a specific, differentiated, specialized and priority strategy for this group, which is a very different element of our unemployment. We agree to complement the Strategic Employment Plan by incorporating specific measures into the annual employment plans, which would serve as a shock to respond to long-term unemployed people, including initiatives to ensure personalized attention to these people, to provide them with concrete training, guidance and mediation measures; a plan that is closely linked to the socio-economic realities of each people, of each city, of each region, which would include massive incentives for recruitment, which would also include the incorporation of clauses for the recruitment of long-term unemployed in public procurement, recognition and certification of work experience and the establishment of ways to live in dignity. Eta eskatzen genuine, plan horren lanketan, jarraipenean age monitoring, adituen aholkularitzarekin kontatzea eta hainbat eragileren part-hartze iraunkorra substatu eta bermatzea. In exceptional situations, we then said, exceptional measures, as is done in many other areas: shock measures and exceptional resources. Aware of the personal, social and also economic impact of long-term unemployment, we have followed very closely the actions of this Government in this area and the fulfilment of the agreed. And we have often repeated, when we have spoken of this subject, that there is no difficulty in repeating it to-day, that things have been done; And I'm not going to say that it wasn't a matter of concern, but, from the course of this long year, it's obvious that it wasn't a priority and that we were talking about 60,000 people, half our unemployed, and that they might have a pretty bad pronostic, seeing what comes over us. The agreement obtained in the building marked a direction, and we were asking you to complete our jobs strategy, we were asking you to insert long-term-exploited, specialized responses to long-term unemployed, but we didn't see it reflected in the course of the fun. We can only conclude from the follow-up to the actions that this Government has taken in this regard that we are dealing with an up-to-date version of the actions that were already taking place with regard to long-term unemployment. We consider and note that the agreement reached unanimously in this Parliament has neither directed nor determined the action of the Government. And I refer to operational plan 2019, where we should have found the first signs of willingness to comply with this agreement, and no, we haven't found anything. Moreover, the 2018 operational plan envisaged, in its fifth operational area, the integration of disadvantaged groups into the labour market, as a specific objective, facilitating access to employment for 550 long-term unemployed persons, through comprehensive actions. 550 people, when the figure was around 60,000; it is quite significant. However, in 2019, this same specific objective ceases to be specific for the long-term unemployed, to be specific for the groups with special difficulties of insertion: no trace of this differentiated, specialized and prioritized action for these people. And we have also asked the Government at different times about the substantial elements of this agreement, and we have asked it about the specific measures that should serve as an element of shock. And we are told about the impetus of regional and local plans for the recruitment of people under 30 in municipalities with the highest rates of youth unemployment, with a budget of six million for one year and 6.5 for 2019. We are also being told about the call for aid for local actions to promote employment, especially in those areas and municipalities with a higher incidence of unemployment, with a budget of 10 million, which will surely all be actions that will have an impact on the long-term unemployed, but which are neither specific nor targeted specifically at this group. There is a call for long-term unemployed persons aged 30 or over. A call that was launched in September 2019 and has a budget of 1,400,000 euros for approximately – it is said – 100 people. 100 people, when we're talking about 56,000 who are in this situation. And with a budget allocation of 1,400,000, when, for example, in youth unemployment, we are talking about 6.5 million, when we are talking about promoting employment in disadvantaged areas around 10 million. Here, 1,400,000. The only specific action with a small budget and a scope that is not in line with the magnitude of the problem to which it seeks to respond. And we must add the characteristics of this call. I think they're a lot to keep in mind. Ze, enplegurako aukerak sortzea bezain garrantzitsua da sortzen diren aukera horiek lan-baldintza duinetan izaisa, eta hemen posetzen ari dena da contracts of 900 euros, with a minimum contribution, which can be of 6 months, to people who are in the last years of their working life and with the consequences that this has. And I look at the messages this government sends to the labour market. Is EUR 900 quality employment, when technically a person is at the threshold of the relative low-income poverty line in this situation? It seems to me to be a rather questionable subject. On individualized and such attention, I think it is obvious that there is nothing: we all know that this revolution of individualized attention has not reached Lanbide either; by the way, Lanbide and its modernization process, which is another debate that never reaches this Parliament. And about the evaluation and that monitoring with the agents, beyond a specific approach with Sara de la Rica and the University, because there is nothing new either. There is no change of paradigma, for things have been done, but not according to the measures proposed in this legislature. We are face to a cycle change, and we can't say that this change of cycle is ripe for the best conditions. We hold it with a rate of over 50% of unemployment, and if we let things go through it, the situation of these people will be much worse. They're probably the biggest losers again, so we need a push, placed in a specific direction, which raises specific commitments, and of course has to reflect on the budgets, and that's why today's the importance of the discussion of the subject. We believe there is a need for an impetus: we consider it necessary to go out to rescue these people, and this is what we agree today with a three-year, well-funded shock plan, which proposes that a specific protocol be implemented to ensure the continued care of each unemployed person, with systematic coordination with local development agencies, with a powerful public prospective exercise to provide structural responses to such situations, to ensure quality in employment and to encourage the inclusion of recruitment criteria for long-term unemployed persons in public procurement, and to include a thorough assessment of the effectiveness of the measures. And that's what you're going to say no to. But we'll go on, we'll go on studying the plug of fun, and the discussions that we have to discuss in the matter are brought to this parliament, and there are some: The transfer of profession, of passive employmental policy, etc., etc. In the meantime, this congressman will ask you today for a quick push: The parliamenter will ask this bill of law to be made to the rescue of people, and we will ask this fellow Congress of the legislature to advance in that arrangement which he has made in June, and we will ask him to put it there before it's too late. We ought to thank Podemosi for the protection we have gathered together in this agreement, and also for the protection of the Poptular Party at the first point, while we leave self-infestance, leaving all these joys, and giving real explicit and spontaneous responses to this crude state.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams who were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u27	Yes, good morning. Well, we're going to acknowledge that EH Bildu's spokesperson is quite repetitive – she didn't locate you now; barkatu. It is quite repetitive, and I do not know whether with this matter and I do not know whether certain groups are going to recriminate it to be repetitive with an issue on which we reached an agreement on the last occasion that brought it to the House. We are going to recriminate you for being repetitive, but in a positive sense. It seems to us that when we address a problem and months later the problem remains there, regardless of whether the previous debate had been resolved without agreement or with an agreement that we then consider positive and we are going to continue to consider positive today, we think that, if the problem remains there, it is still opportune to be repetitive and bring it to the House. We therefore welcome the initiative: we have reached an agreement easily with the EH Bildu Group on this occasion, for one reason, because we shared objectives and, above all, because we share content; because I believe that in the objectives it is easy, I think that in the objectives we will surely agree different groups, as we saw in the previous debate: who will not share that the problem of the long-term unemployed, with thousands of people – around 60,000, if I am not mistaken, in the case of Euskadi –, unemployed and long-term unemployed, that fighting and reducing this in a remarkable way, is not a goal we share? Well, there, logically, you'll agree. The point is that, after the last debate and that agreement, and months later, Mrs Kortajarena also said, we are in a very similar situation. It is true that in recent months – it has been said too – it has been reduced, but it has been reduced in a very small way and related to the reduction of unemployment, also a product of the economic cycle, of small recovery, which seems to be coming to an end. But in the Basque Country we are talking about the fact that 60% of the unemployed are long-term unemployed today, and I believe that it is still the worst figure in the state as a whole. And therefore, we have a problem, a serious problem and that the experts – some have also been mentioned in the previous intervention – have defined as a structural problem. We have already talked about this on previous occasions. And so, if we have a structural problem, a serious problem that affects thousands of people and that affects them in a powerful way in their daily lives, it seems to us that we have to get back to it and we have to see what is failing and what is failing, and that is what has to do with the content. We believe that, despite the previous agreement, there is no specific policy for the unemployed and the long-term unemployed. We don't care to call it a shock plan, as has generally been called in the transaction; we think it's more appropriate to have a specific strategy, because we think that shock plans have a short, limited time, and, being realistic, we think that even with the best shock plan we'll end this situation in a short time. It is what the capitalist market has: it is very complicated to put an end to unemployment and long-term unemployment in a system like we live in. But it's worth the shock plan, but the important thing, above all, is that it's specific. In the previous agreement, a concrete specificity was included in the existing plans with regard to the long-term unemployed and the long-term unemployed, and we have seen that this, in addition to not being done and not being done properly, is not producing results. And we therefore find it interesting that it should be reconsidered, and that is why we have joined in this transaction in putting forward a specific, specific policy to address the long-term unemployed. We know the characteristics: even in the literality of the characteristics, it is possible that we agree when we talk about training, orientation, mediation, i.e., individualized attention, but the truth is that we prove that this today, for different reasons, is not done. We think that the bulk or the backbone of what is being done is mainly characterised by recruitment aid. It is an old system, that of aid to firms in recruitment, without too many requirements, which also has an impact on another of the characteristics, in which we supposedly agree with the different groups when we say that we must address this issue, that is, that jobs are of quality, that they are decent jobs. We have also wanted to introduce, as on previous occasions, that for us the dimension or role that the public administration can play and the jobs that may result from it is important. We know that in this we are not going to agree with other groups, but we think that the public administration and the use of the expansion of public services, also as a tool for job creation, can be a useful policy to reduce unemployment rates and to address the issue of the unemployed and the long-term unemployed. We believe that there is a potential for work that we do not take advantage of, as a public administration, which can be used to expand and generate new public services, which better serve citizens and which, moreover, we are convinced that they can be economically sustainable. And then we include a question, on which we also stressed the previous debate and I am not going to say that nothing is being done, but that we believe that there is much room for improvement, which is the question of the certification of knowledge of long-term unemployed people, in this case, especially those over 45 years of age. Yes, Mr. Aiartza, don't make me curious faces. You will then be able to come out here to defend that with this you are already doing everything you can do; it seems very legitimate to me. I am telling you that I am not saying that nothing is being done, but that we believe that there is room to do much more with people, in this case, who have long work experience, but who, unfortunately, cannot have certain qualifications that are currently necessary for that particular orientation and that relocation to jobs. Finally, we have also included in the transaction two issues, which we believe cannot be disconnected from policies aimed at the long-term unemployed, which have to do with passive policies and also with income-guarantee income. It seems to us that when we talk in the Basque Parliament about policies aimed at the unemployed and the long-term unemployed, we cannot forget that these people in their daily lives need these benefits, which are also a right, and also the subsidies and also the GIR. And, therefore, it seems to us that it is important to include them and to talk about it, above all because of one issue, because these benefits have suffered significant cuts in recent years and in the last decade. Therefore, we again propose – we are insistent on this – the return to the SMI as an indicator for the rise of the RGI. We continue to insist that that was a cut and, as it is a cut that significantly affects many long-term unemployed people, it seems to us that we have to talk about this also when we talk about these people. And then we were talking about urging those institutions that have the power to improve unemployment coverage. The benefits which were cut after the 181 days of unemployment and which therefore affect very directly the long-term unemployed and, above all, the unemployment benefits for over 52 years of age, which were also brutally cut, which were in that budgetary agreement that we reached with the Socialist Party, but which are still cut and, therefore, it seems to us that there is no more to include them here. We think that the transaction is a transaction that can turn government policies around, because we think that specialized policies are not being made for a group as broad and as delicate as that of long-term unemployed people. We believe that the key to these policies has to be a policy to programme, to carry out adequate relocation programmes. The recruitment aid currently being provided has nothing to do with policies for the correct relocation of long-term unemployed persons. Therefore, although we believe that this was a good agreement, we believe that certain policies need to be changed. And, therefore, we are pleased that in this case EH Bildu will bring this initiative. We have dealt with it and we believe that at least part of it is going to go ahead and, therefore, we are happy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u28	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u29	Good morning, everyone. We are going to discuss a non-legislative proposal, on the initiative of EH Bildu, which brings Mrs Kortajarena back to us, on the measures necessary to adequately care for the long-term unemployed, which we now convert into the title under the name of launching a new permanent shock plan to adequately care for people with long-term unemployment. A reconverted initiative that is presented only six months after this plenary agreed, unanimously by the House, to incorporate into the annual employment plans to be developed by the Strategic Plan 2017-2020, on which we also agreed, shock measures to properly address the long-term unemployed. Six months, Mrs Kortajarena, that is the expiry date of the agreement for EH Bildu, of a unanimous agreement, which called for the incorporation of specific measures to meet this collective in the development of a plan that is in force by 2020; six months, Mrs Kortajarena. An agreement that was called, by the proposer, very good and for which she was then very happy. The truth is that, seen from the perspective of time, from today on backwards, honestly, it seems to me like a hairpin. More so if we take into account the detail that, after unilaterally declaring the expiry of that agreement, you have put it in the freezer for almost ten months, until you decide casually to air it in this session. He records it in February, he brings it in October, because the unemployed – you have said – worry him, and it is noted. He brings it when he's worried. And one, one, has to overcome the temptation, when faced with this kind of calculated strategies, not to say out loud the first thing that comes to his head, right?, what the common logic of the street would say to him without any kind of problem, but this is parliamentary courtesy. Then, once this temptation has been overcome, I will remind you, very briefly, but very briefly, from this rostrum, of the different milestones that have occurred in this legislature around the collective of the unemployed in general and in that of the long-term unemployed in particular. And if anyone is curious to delve into what were the debates, arguments and agreements reached, those that were labeled as very solid and powerful agreements for the future, which is set out in the diary of sessions, because it is republished, with some interest, the minutes of the plenary sessions of May 10 and June 7, 2018, and I do not tire them today, repeating it. I was talking about milestones: the first milestone was the approval of the Strategic Employment Plan 2017-2020, a plan that collects objectives linked to the improvement of the quality of employment, in response to the detection of a risk, which is the unintended temporality and partiality, and to the need to create real opportunities for those who have less employability, with concrete lines of action. A strategy that we have improved with a unanimous agreement from this House as well. Annual plans to develop up to 2020 this strategy based on five pillars: individualised care for unemployed people through Lanbide, the drive for collaboration between different actors and actors as a working tool, the empowerment of employment plans as a tool for inclusion, incentives for recruitment and the accreditation of knowledge by work experience. I would be tempted to read you the agreement, and the truth is that I have lowered it; but, after the interventions, I don't think it's worth it. The Socialists thought then and now we think that we did not err when these instruments were adopted, when we adopted this direction, when we adopted these lines, something that seems not to happen to others who have intervened, who, without time for implementation or evaluation because their concern to ask the government came in September, give up the agreement reached. Well, let me not accompany you on this trip. For the Socialists, the agreement that we then reached with you, with Elkarrekin Podemos, and which was also supported by the People's Party, is an existing agreement; it is also an agreement that reflects the amendment that we have tabled to your non-law proposal, and that is perfectly valid, and that, by the way, it does not differ from your initiative of origin, not from the trance, that neither, because there has fallen even the difference. In that initiative of origin that brings us EH Bildu to debate in this House, the only new thing that enters was his slogan of the previous election campaign, that is, a minimum wage of 1,200 euros per month, even though the collective agreement says. I'm not going to repeat myself because you're going to think I'm tired of why we didn't support that. That has fallen, and we bring again not know how many points, in which – by the way, easy reading is also not; much to demand from others easy reading, but here we do some transactions that have their question – is literally collected everything that is already in the previous agreement. Not a single novelty, not a single change, not a single implementation. And they say this is to deepen and concreteize? I don't think so. I was saying in the Tribune, on May 18, that we could say without fear of error, Mrs Kortajarena, that we were on the same wave. I, in view of the fate of your group, have to rectify that statement today: I do not know what wave you are in, whether in that of real concern for those who are most vulnerable or in that of a permanent campaign slogan. You will have to explain why this manoeuvring use of certain issues in this House, the need to freeze and defrost initiatives according to your needs, because the unemployed alike are the ones who occupy them, but they are not concerned. I conclude with one question, and we are convinced that we then agree on good limbs for the development of effective public policies, which give real opportunities to this collective. And I encourage you to read the latest report on unemployment published in Lanbide earlier this month, and that you do or will also read about the development of unemployment in terms of its duration, and you will see that the annual rate from September to September has led to a 12.5% decrease in long-term unemployment in Euskadi. Can it be little? Yeah. But it's likely to have something to do with that direction that we all agreed on and that today you have given up. We were able to reach an agreement in June, because we believed we shared that sincere concern and that sincere occupation of the collective. I was wrong – I say it in the rostrum –; I deeply regret that that was so. And I end up returning to skepticism, which I thought was over in May 2018, when we had a real attitude and willingness to reach agreement. Today, that attitude and that will were not reached, because we have the capacity to reach other kinds of agreements with other types of actors, on other kinds of issues, and then it is not in the interests of maintaining unanimous agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u31	Thank you, ma'am. We'd share that long laboured collective is weak, and also that they need special attention with exact measurements so that they don't get organized in this critical situation. It is certainly a concern shared by everyone here, and I also reflect the concern in the society we represent. A previous question: on this important agreement, that is, on this important issue – and it was said before – we have a parliamentary agreement in force today, on 7 June 18, unanimous agreement. Before the agreement of 7 June 2018, Mrs Kortajarena, in her legitimate role – I would even say in her obligation to control and push this government – raised a number of initiatives. She herself referred to them as "their attempts." An interpellation which ended on March 17, 17; your subsequent motion, which was debated on November 9, 17, in which you agree with Elkarrekin Podemos, but ends with our amendment being adopted in its entirety; re-submits no-law proposal on February 2, 18, which you lead to debate in plenary on June 7. When I observe in detail his exercise of impulse to the Government, I feel obliged to give him a double recognition: On the one hand, I recognize his perseverance, his attitude of constancy in the achievement of his objectives – Mr Hernández, nor in this he is correct, I recognize him; I do not recriminate him, otherwise I recognize him. On the other hand, and taking into account the contents, I have to acknowledge that I very positively value much of the diagnosis and the measures you propose, although I only share them in part. But, as Mrs Castelo said in that debate, in which I was not, we are not so disaligned. That's what I'm talking about. Quid pro quo I think it is clear that you then persevered in the use of dialogue, and, as the Lehendakari says, I think you have dialogued with the will to agree. And you got – we got – the June 7 deal. And you were very happy, as has already been said here: "Today we are very happy, because, indeed, again, the majority of this House joins this need...". Shared satisfaction. But you didn't make it clear to us, besides the satisfaction, you didn't make it clear to Mrs. Castelo... To clarify a little thing he said, to clarify a little thing: "The possibility of this agreement we have offered it to us"... Perfect, your deal. Also of all and all. The debate ended with Mrs Llanos' second speech, from her seat, and Mrs Llanos said: "And in a year's time? And she answered herself: "within a year, we will have to see that the actions are improved and we will have to see that the indices of the and the long-term stops improve." Okay... There's no Mrs. Llanos; I'm sorry, she is. Measures implemented in accordance with the agreement. Data. Point one of the agreement: "Referring to the development of specific measures that serve as a shock element to properly address long-term unemployed people – which says the agreement – by giving strict compliance to the first point of the agreement, impulse of regional and local plans, local actions to promote employment, job integration of long-term unemployed people", all the development of the measures. "All these initiatives are new actions, launched in order to be able to respond to the agreement adopted on 7 June." Second point of the agreement: "Consult with expert advice and promote the participation of different actors. In the same line of compliance with the agreement, advice from experts, promoting the participation of different actors, mid-term evaluation of the Basque employment strategy". In particular, with your links, in case you want to dive a little. "Follow-up of the annual operational plans, collaboration with the Basque public university – which has been commented here also–"... And usually and periodically, the government meets with the third sector, through Ekain Sarea. The third point of the agreement referred to the reform of the GIR; but, in particular, it was not a task or a duty to the Government; it was a commitment to this House. Results, Mrs. Llanos, second part of your scheme: results, indices... In summary, the annual reference shows a sharp decrease in the long-term group, with a decrease of 12,5 %, while the short-term group decreases by 2,16 %. This good behavior of long-term unemployment is excellent news, as it is an indicator that economic recovery is also giving opportunities to the most chronically unemployed. Summary of follow-up and assessment, Mrs Llanos. Measures have been implemented, with significant economic impact, and these measures in the short to medium term, which is where we are, are achieving excellent results. Summary of the summary: the Basque Government is complying with the Parliamentary agreement of 7 June. The Basque Government, the Department of Employment and Social Policy, is fulfilling its part. But I wonder: from the agreement of 7 June, only obligations for the Basque Government derive? Do we and we have no obligation? Do the political formations that we hold in these seats not attempt the obligation to follow up and evaluate this agreement? Do we not have an obligation to control compliance with this agreement? Mrs Kortajarena, how long does it take between the agreement of 7 June 18 and the registration of this initiative on 1 February 19? It does not seem, in principle, much time to implement measures of this kind, although the Government may already be implementing these measures. And in that period, from July 1st, 18th to February 19th, do you ask the government any questions before submitting this non-law proposal? Do you perform that control function? The answer is no. The answer is no. He does not ask the Government whether the measures of the agreement are being implemented. "We have followed this issue very closely," he said today. Man, close, close, not in that period. And you tell us on your initiative, and you tell us yourself in the justification of your non-law proposal: "This is based on a study whose data – and I quote – are not novel." Mrs Kortajarena, do you find it rigorous not to ask the government, which is the main thrust of the agreement, and on the basis of data – data other than the government – that you yourself consider not to be new, to come up with a possible new agreement? Mrs Kortajarena, do you think it is rigorous to launch this initiative on 1 February, which we are debating today, and eight months later, in September, yesterday, practically, to ask the Government about this issue? I'm not much of a saying, but the one about "putting the cart in front of the oxen" to you, in this case, fits perfectly. A little thing, as you say... Another question, about the agreement itself. Does it seem to you responsible to devalue, to break, with this initiative, a unanimous agreement like yours, as your agreement, without knowing in detail whether it is achieving results, which we know today is achieving them? Really, Mrs. Kortajarena, I don't understand. What I do not understand is that it was so persevering to get that agreement – your agreement – and then that you are so unsettled to worry about its materialization and so unaccountable to keep, to fulfill, that agreement. I don't understand. In any case, as I believe that parliamentary work is not a game, I have only one way out: to continue fulfilling the unanimous agreement – your agreement, Mrs Kortajarena – to persevere in the agreement... That is why, as Mrs Castelo has already announced, our whole amendment is simply to reaffirm ourselves in that agreement, your agreement, and that is what we are going to defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u32	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing to the district that hasn't announced any corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Azpiazu, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. I am very grateful that you are here to convey to your fellow Members of Government, who will surely have a great excuse for not being in the House at this time, the ideas we are discussing on a subject that I know very well that you are exceptionally concerned about. At the end of August this year, there were 59,482 people who were unemployed, out of the more than 116,075 total, who have been unemployed for more than a year. Many of them – more than half – took more than two years. It's 59,482 personal dramas. Considering that most of them, apart from the long-term unemployed, are people over 45 years of age, we can think that this is about – let's put ourselves at the lowest – 59,000 affected families. Of those 59,000 families, not only one member of the family is unemployed, in many cases – although I don't know the facts – it is all members who are unemployed. It's the only income that family had. That things have improved since the August data, Mr Aiartza, to the September data, for I am glad, and I congratulate you on that; because, with only one of those people who has found work, I believe we are already successful. We need 60,000 hits. We have one, okay, or we have 1,000, phenomenal, congratulations. But we're going for 60,000 more. Moreover, I would ask you to try to go for 100,000 more hits, in case you don't get them all, so that we can cover up that tear and that matter that worries us all so much. I sincerely believe that the important part of this debate is not the time the initiative took in the fridge, which we already discussed, which we had already talked about, that we have an agreement of June 2018, that the agreement is being broken and that we are already doing things. No, no. The important thing is the 59,482 people who want to work and who can't. And since these people are important, I wouldn't mind if next week we talked about these people again and we all put ideas on the table. Don't you want to vote for the initiative? Well, don't vote for it, it's absolutely nothing – well, I say, it's not my initiative; just like Mrs Kortajarena has another opinion. The important thing is that they take note and start doing things; because, look, the framework we were working on in June 2018, and with the data from the 17th, it's not the same as we have now. I just skipped one of these last-minute computer news, and it's a shame that Mr. Arriola came out and could corroborate it, that the sale of flats in Euskadi has fallen by 29%. If the sale of flats falls by 29% – Mr Azpiazu, you will give me the reason – that means something is not going well. Or have the Basques decided that we don't want to change houses anymore? No, it's not that, it's not that, it's that something doesn't work, and you have a Basque Finance Council tomorrow, and I think the news you're going to have on the table isn't exactly very positive, you're going to tell us at the time, and when you tell us, you're going to tell us what measures are going to be taken, and they're bringing us a new draft budget, with measures on the table. That is where I want to reach consensus; whether or not the initiative comes out is the least. Take note of that problem that we have on the table, because the situation is going to get bad; some still see green outbreaks, others smoke them and don't want to see anything at all, but the truth is that the situation is going to get worse. And, of those who are going to get worse, who are going to be possibly the most affected? Well, the most vulnerable. The long-term unemployed, over 45 years of age with family responsibilities behind their backs, mostly women – it is an unequal percentage, the truth, in that collective, between men and women – and above with a low qualification. If there is an economic cooling, recession, crisis, call it whatever you want, they are the ones who are going to suffer the most and, therefore, you have to think about these people. And I know, Mr. Aiartza... And, by the way, I thank you for having already on this second item of the agenda the tone of your group and again being an educated House, because the beginning seemed to me, at last, not the most appropriate; but I thank you very much for raising the tone again. You have always told us that it is the government of the people, that, by the way, what a pity that is not the lehendakari, that one day will tell us: if this is the government of the people, the former of what were... I don't know, I hope someday, even in the hallway, you give me the answer. The people's government... Let's focus on the most vulnerable people. My group can only support the first of the three points reached in the Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu agreement, because the other two have not just convinced me. The third, because I do not think it makes any sense to urge here in Madrid to do so... No, look, we all have political representation; our groups are also supported in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate, and, when the time comes and we already have a stable House that can start working, because we will have to present the initiatives there. I don't really see... It's like blaming others for what they don't do; for, look, we do it there, and that's it. I do not believe that this is the time; of course, if it is necessary, it will have to be raised, and we are in the middle of the debate on the proposal for a law that the parliamentary groups have brought to us to work on this issue, but I do not think that the two things should be mixed up, because if something has deeply saddened me of the position that the two groups that support the Government, it is that they end up saying that, in fact, we must encourage Parliament, we must excite or we must call on Parliament to continue working on the reform of income guarantee income, in order to cover those particularly vulnerable people. I, with all due respect, consider that an insult. That is to say, to the long-term unemployed, who are in a critical situation, that those responsible for government action tell him not to worry that we are already going to review the income guarantee income to give a solution to his problem, it seems to me that, in fact, we have to do it and we have to be there, but that is the offer I find tremendous. To the long-term unemployed what we have to say is: look, we have established economic means, fiscal measures, important enough not to be affected by a cooling of the economy, to generate many more jobs, so that you can go back to work, not for you to collect an income guarantee income for longer. That seemed, honestly, a mistake. A mistake on your part to put it in your proposal, an insult to the people concerned and, therefore, that point of agreement between the two groups that have reached the compromise will not be approved. But we will support the first one. And even if it doesn't go ahead, I repeat to you again: please take it seriously, take action. The times ahead are not going to be very positive, and these measures must be taken in time. Mr. Azpiazu, you... "Well, you'll have them finished, I suppose." But we have just emerged from a debate where the Government is also very concerned, and it turns out that it goes and creates a game to help young people who want to emancipate from 22.5 million euros, 45 or 50 and so many millions in three years, 22.5 million. Well, it's true that that's a lot of concern to people. Of course, then we will see and find out at the end of next year, when they bring us the budget execution, that it is not going to be spent more than 1 million. Man, no, I don't need it in the budget headings. We have to use them, we have to spend that money, and we have to worry about those 59,482 personal and family dramas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u34	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the answer shift, the representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Kotha's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u35	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. It is true that as long as time passes, one learns, sometimes to go to the heart of the subject, and sometimes to the elements which are at the center of the discussion, they are used by excuses; they are attempted to decalate the attempts one makes; But, well, Mrs. Castellao was talking about this agreement, and you and I both praised it, and we praised it, which is true. And he talked about the attitude and the will of the agreements. But this parliamentary group had to bring, as Mr Aiartza recalled, on three occasions the situation of the stops, long-term unemployed people, so that, not using other kinds of excuses, such as those used also at those times – in a way, of absence of other people... – the initiative would come forward. Three times, attitude and will for agreements. And I don't know if repetitive is heavy, but we are going to be repetitive with a situation that is pressing and that affects and that has an impact on the lives of people, of many people, of 56,000, who are running out of time. And you read the answer from the government yesterday, and you read that there is a specific measure. And I was talking about the regional plans and I was talking – even mentioned – about youth employment plans, youth employment plans for long-term unemployed people, which I myself recognized will surely have an impact on long-term unemployed people, but here we had talked about a differentiated, specialized and prioritized strategy for long-term unemployed people. And, of that, there is only one call, which comes out in September 2019, in September 2019, with a budget allocation of 1,400,000 euros, for 100 people. That's what Councilwoman Artolazabal announces. The situation did improve, yes, but I'd say it didn't happen to you. The comparison has been made by the comparison of the crime in the quantum plane. The key was mentioned in the report of unemployment in August 2019: It's the economy recovery that created the opportunity to improve the social condition, not the fun. And that cycle is almost over. Our employment policies are not capable of making an answer to these experiences of life that are so painful. He is being installed in their life of those who have been excluded from laboring during the preceding crisis, when they still have a life of 20 years of labor. And these men are exhausted with time, because the chances of labour are diminished, and they are necessary for concrete and effective actions. And even more when we're on the brink of a crisis, because we're facing a switch of cycle, which requires a new push. And you want to get involved in things about form that are involved in this complication, but the object of this initiative is not to oppose the government's activity, which is not the end of this enterprise. It is the purpose of being able to draw these men to the rescue, and the end is to do their homework sooner than late, because we have come to this state without having any household work. When it was a good situation, they didn't do homework, they didn't follow a definite strategy, although all of them had to listen to it and talk about it. The strategy itself, because I did dive into the documents that were mentioned, which, by the way, as an evaluation it was said that "the employment strategy has been analysed throughout 2019", that strategy, that document, is July 2018, not 2019. And already the agents mention that no special attention has been paid to the long-term people, and that special action must be taken in this collective, because it is the collective that runs out of time and needs immediate action. I don't know how you say "catamillarse" in quies, in terms of form; you use excuses to refuse this initiative for three times. Keep going, but they're 60,000 people and they're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u37	It seems that the groups that support the Government have seen in this initiative – and, moreover, I think they have expressed it – a sort of condemnation and break-up of the previous agreement, when I believe that none of the groups that signed the transaction – and certainly not mine – has recanted in the view that it was a good agreement, or at least a good agreement based on where the positions of some and where the positions of others were based. But today there is an initiative that goes beyond that agreement, that agreement that was based on including in existing plans specific actions for the long-term unemployed group. And today the transaction that he proposes is a specific shock plan, that is, something that is not contrary to that agreement and to what the Government says it is doing, but goes further and has to do with the initial positions of my group's original debate, but I think also of the proposing group, when it first brought this issue to the House. And the truth is that the groups that support the government – I think – have had very little intention of negotiating anything, and have simply wanted to shield themselves that there was already an agreement some time ago. It is true that more could have been expected, more could have been expected, but it is also true, as I said in my previous speech, that, if we continue to have a very powerful structural problem that affects very strongly the daily lives of about 60,000 people in this country, it is equally lawful not to wait and bring this initiative and see if we can agree between all new measures and a reorientation. But the parties supporting the Government, in this case, did not want to talk about this issue; they wanted to take refuge in the fact that there was already a previous agreement and, therefore, everything was already being done. And that makes us sad, because we think that if an earlier agreement had been reached, we could have made progress. Surely it would not have been all that Mrs Kortajarena would have wanted; surely, it would not have been all that Elkarrekin We could have wanted. We already know that the part of the passive policies and, above all, the part of the GIR would have been left out; I expected it, but we thought that progress could have been made. And I am going to defend those two issues also that were included, because they are the issues, in some way, also differentiating from what we propose for this issue and which are the most questioned: We think – and I've said it before –... I share, in a way, what Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has said that, very well, the ideal for the 60,000 people is to have a job. Not that they have a job, because some of them, when we give aid for hiring, because they get a job, just like the municipalities do. Come on, six months to do this! This does not stop being a long-term unemployed person, but it is true that employment is the best solution. I share it, but we have a concrete reality. You have said: "What do we say to an unemployed person?". What we should be able to say to him is: we have generated, we have created... policies that will allow jobs. The unemployed will ask you where and when. Where and when? The unemployed will certainly not be interested in our debates and more or less political issues; they will be interested in where and when. But the reality is that there are 60,000 people for whom – and I have said so before – not even with the shock plan, in the short term, this issue is not going to be resolved in a profound way. We live in the system we live in and will continue to be unemployed, and these people need coverage. And an important part of that coverage, too, is unemployment benefits. That's why we think we need to talk about them. I know that they are the competence of another House; I know that we have colleagues in those chambers to defend this. But it also seems to me – and I have said it many times – that this House, representing the Basque people, can issue opinions and should give an opinion on this which is related to the situation of the long-term unemployed. And about the GIR, I do think it is time to do so, because I think the time has passed a long time ago, because that change – we have said it many times – was an ad hoc change And we are also talking both in benefits and subsidies, as well as in the GIR, about amounts they barely give to live. We're talking 400, 500, 600 euros. That's not how you live in Euskadi! It seems to me, therefore, that it is very important that, when we talk about these things, they are included in the initiative and in what comes out of this Parliament, even if some of the parties are declaratory because we do not have the powers in the case of benefits. We think it's very important, because that's what the unemployed want to hear many times, huh? When they cut off the benefit, they know what it means. If you increase the benefit or increase the coverage, you also know what it means. And, of course, they do want to hear it, so it seems important to us that, when we talk about active employment policies, if we talk about the unemployed, we also talk about passive policies and also about issues such as GIR.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u38	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u39	Mrs. Kortajarena tells me that we've come out to disqualify. No, we've come out to qualify with a time perspective. And of course, things are seen at one point in a way, and at another. And, of course, he says you don't get mixed up in formal matters. Man, you don't want me to get mixed up. Of course he doesn't want to! Your first initiative, 20 March of the 17th, to the freezer until November of the 17th; second initiative, May of the 18th, third initiative, June of the 18th, those two unanimously; the November one, you know – and here we also discuss in this rostrum – why an agreement was reached or not. February 19th, new initiative. To the freezer, until October 19. Of course, you don't want me to get mixed up in formal matters. It's just that you say later – you have here the platform to go out and say – "You need an immediate answer; you run out of time, you need to go out to the rescue." Against!, for 10 months you have been waiting to go out to the rescue. During those 10 months the long-term unemployed had no problems; certainly, of course. You do not get mixed up in formal matters; get into the content. If I can't get into the contents, I can't question anything. If the content of what you bring me here today is already completely in the June 18 agreement. Why do I have to ratify something I've already approved? What Mr Hernandez tells me: no, it's now called a shock plan. So what we have now integrated into the annual plan, we put it on a separate page, we put a title, shock plan No, it just doesn't work that way, and it doesn't work that way when they cheat on the answer. When here they say "we don't want to play the mus; I wouldn't like to play the mus in this Parliament." Well, it's likely, because there's a lot of triler here, when you go out and say the government's answers. And you don't want to, but here we talked about using the county plans and the employment plans, and it's not for a long-term unemployed... That, by the way, Mrs Kortajarena, long-term unemployed is not a concrete qualification, that goes with more than 54 or with less than 30, or with women, or with disabled people; that is that the collective is heterogeneous, and therefore, when you encourage the hiring of under 30 with one year of age in unemployment, you are going to the long-term collective. And, when you encourage recruitment or you specify in employment plans that go to over 45, you're encouraging their recruitment. And it's not for someone to come and get here for six months. That I don't... That what you're trying to do from the protection of a job in an employment plan is to give exactly that experience that they just can't have in a normal company. Because it is true that the government helps create opportunities, encourage those opportunities, but it is companies, the market, the situation that creates opportunities... That's what Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo told us later. Therefore, in the objectives we agree, and in the measures as well; therefore, there has been no single effort at this time to reach an agreement, nor was there will. I think we've had a conversation, one. Since last week's postponement to this, one. Yesterday, the last hour. I found out that there was compromise today when I arrived in Parliament. That was the interest. The other time we were working; not here. It is also true: I did not think it necessary, because the data say that in the annual rate, September 18-September 19, the June 18 agreement, long-term unemployment has fallen by 12.5. And here was someone who came out; he says to me, "It takes time to get started and to give results." Have they set in motion? Yeah. Have you given results? Also. But it doesn't matter, because the interest is not true that it is the collective of long-term unemployed, it is that we have left an initiative for 10 months and we bring it today, and they will have to explain why. You tell me, "Don't mess with time." I am tangled, I am tangled; because in no measure, and in proposing new things, of them nothing, of you, neither before nor now, because you do not amend, you go to the easy situation of intervening the last and not proposing a single idea. I do believe that there is one issue that Elkarrekin's spokesman has said: we can bring debates to this Parliament, which he encourages to bring debates to this Parliament. I encourage us to bring new debates to this Parliament, with new actions, and not to have to rephrase the speeches we have already made on four occasions, because it is difficult to change the perspective of an initiative that brings nothing new, when there are results, when the Government is committed to the implementation of a non-legislative proposal drawn by unanimity, simply by airing at a given time, because it interests a political group and the others give it coverage, the situation of a collective, which, of course, is not for us to operate in a forum.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u41	Thank you, ma'am. Allarias cuesces... Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo, you were talking about the councilwoman, and you were placing a charge on the Sailburu. Today's debate was not that. Today's debate was: agreement, agreement of 7 June, what measures should be put in place and, if those measures, as your colleague Mrs Llanos said, have actually been put in place, with what financial resources and the impact of those measures, which we have seen working. That was the debate, that was the debate for us! The other thing is that we wanted to distort the debate. Mr Hernandez, and in this line, you said, "You could have expected more." Of course you do, but don't look at us; look here. "We could have expected more," of course, to attend to the detail of each and every one of these concrete measures and the impact they are generating, which we also know is positive. That should have been expected. But don't look at us; look over here [Keinu bat egin du skuarekin] Some conclusions or something previous, personal disqualification; the argument ad hominem I think this initiative – and this is already an assessment – was born dead; you froze it. She was born dead, because you didn't perform those functions. You talking about concrete measures, did you realize at those moments that I asked specific questions to the Government, which was the callable in the agreement? No, no, And that's proven. Let's remind you of that, that's not a personal disqualification. And by unfreezing this initiative, the truth that has not come back to life, no matter how much you engage. On rigor, he said: "Man, I think we have to be a little more rigorous also in how we make certain assessments. When progress is made in a positive way, when reality is progressing in a positive way, in the achievement of these long-term issues, it is the conjuncture that the Government is leading." That's what you said... And when there is no positive progress, it is the Government's fault. Man, I think we need to focus on the measures and the effects we are getting with them. About responsibility, so for me, I still think there's irresponsibility in your initiative. Why? Because you're part of the wrong data, because you didn't ask the government on your day, in February 2019. Part of the wrong data; thus, the diagnosis is wrong. About the intention, which is something that worries me. On the intention, I began by saying: "We share that the collective of long-term unemployed people is very vulnerable and needs special attention; it needs concrete measures, which are the ones that have been put in place, so that they are not chronicled in this grave situation". Maybe I was wrong, and I should say "we shared." June 2018. It happens to me like Mrs. Castelo. The intention, Mrs Kortajarena: what drives you when you present this initiative in February of this year? What's driving him? What is driving you to do this parliamentary trap today? The form; he talked to us about the form. The form is very important, because these forms are not acceptable. The form is very important, and it affects the content of the debate. The shape... You will know what drives you; for you it remains. In any case, it is not the concern for the people who stand still. In conclusion, I would just like to thank the Basque Government, the Department of Employment and Social Policy, for their rigour and responsibility in the excellent implementation of the agreement that has been approved, in addition to the correctness, which is materialized, Mrs Llanos, as you said, in the latest results. You do care about people!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u42	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Aiartza, we have not brought this debate to the House. We have not started it and, of course, nothing further from our intention – and I really tell you, with total sincerity – to distort this debate. Not at all. I've put a reality on the table, a reality with some numbers, some numbers that are improving. I congratulated them. But I told you the issues... "I don't remember; the Latin thing was fatal," but there was a clause that was said—when I studied the race—that was being things as they are, because the agreements have... And the king shall stand. It's just that things have changed, it's that things are changing, and they're changing very quickly, and things are changing bad. The frames... No, don't put that face on me, that I'm telling you it's true, that we don't have to cheat... The framework has changed the agreements, the measures taken. I know that it is a short time ago, a year ago; they are not enough; they must be improved, and we must be prepared to give an immediate response to these people, so that, as you say, the people's government is that of all people, not that of the people who are occupied, not that of the officials, not that of the unemployed between the ages of 30 and 45, who have managed to reduce a 15% of the unemployment rate. No, worry about the most disadvantaged, the most vulnerable, the over 45s, those who have been unemployed for more than a year or two, and that the future is very black, those who have to worry; prove that this is the people's government. Take action immediately; if we do not ask for anything else. We may or may not agree on the second point, in paragraph three – okay, but let's move another message to the street; let's move the message that Parliament is sensitive to that reality, and that Parliament is aware of what is coming on us, and that is why action is going to be taken and things are going to be done, and that it is not worth putting forward fantastic, great, budgeted plans, if that then does not lead us to reduce the unemployment rate of that group of Basques by a percentage of 30 or 40%, which is what we would all like. Hasn't it been achieved? Well, anyway, the measurements weren't the best; let's improve them. And as things have changed, let us improve them and be prepared, in order, in fact, to give a solution to the citizens, not to be caught by the train. That was simply my intention; of course, do not distort any debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. As has been requested, he will score; I think there is no problem: the first point, and then two and three points. So we vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u45	So the first point is accepted. Next, we'll vote for two and three points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 29; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u46	So, two and three points have not been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Momology, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Paspula team, Carmulus Barrius Barroja, a member of the Populacal Group, who sets up the regulations for the help program to transform sales and calls for the event of 2019, about leaving the pharmaceutical pharmaceutical pharmaceuticals outside the 14th of May 2019. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u47	Yes, thank you. Good morning, again, Madam President, Lehendakari, Counsellors, Counsellor. Well... In June, we asked the health adviser about her assessment of the exclusion of pharmacies from the Order of May 14, 2019, which regulated programs to support the modernization of commercial establishments, and pharmacies, by that order, were excluded. It was the second year, because until two years ago pharmacies enjoyed, were, were, as businesses, benefiting from the support of the Department of Commerce and from aid for the modernization of commercial establishments. However, in the last two years, the order of the Basque Government, the order of the Department of Commerce, Consumption and Tourism has excluded them: in particular, when regulating the order to the beneficiaries it clearly states that "they will not be beneficiaries of the aid regulated in this order, heading 6,521, pharmacies" and pharmacies as retail trade in medicines, sanitary products and personal hygiene. That is, something that is incomprehensible from our point of view. Moreover, in the inquiry, it was not clear why, from our point of view, this exclusion, except that it was not the competence of the Department of Health, that it was the competence of the Department of Commerce, Consumption and Tourism, and that it was its decision. But the basic elements were not clear, not at all, to this parliamentary group. And I think they were rather confused. Someone like that can make it clear to us on the group shift. And, of course, from our point of view, we do not share that decision, and that is why we have tabled this motion. This motion to reinstate, so that pharmacies can be re-enacted in trade and modernization support orders. In addition, pharmacies are the best example of commercial establishments close to and close to the customer, with citizens, for many things, apart from selling them medicines and other products. For information, for advice, for technical consultations... That is, pharmacies are a trade closely linked to the customer, in an essential way; that is, in the villages, in the cities, in all places, that is, it is a regular, constant trade... We saw last Tuesday, in the Committee on Health, that the representatives of the Euskadi Pharmaceuticals Council, who appeared in it, also referred, among other important issues – and regretted – to the exclusion of the Community pharmacy from trade aid programmes. And they said, when we asked them what they say or what the justification is, well, because they ask a lot, the pharmacists, the pharmacies, who have already given them money in other previous programs... And, of course, well, they're arguments that were working out there, but they don't understand. And, of course, the pharmacists and the Pharmaceutical Board, the pharmaceutical schools and the owners of the pharmacy offices did not understand this exclusion from the last two years, and less so for such pilgrim reasons as they ask a lot or have already been given in previous programs, when we see that it is a trade that is constantly evolving and that needs to be constantly modernised. Like many others, of course, the same. That is why what they cannot be excluded, we understand. In addition, pharmacy offices are, in addition to shops, another important thing. In addition to pure commerce, they are health centres, health centres, in some ways, they are centres of public interest, they are socio-health centres, health information centres and health guidance centres. That is essential, and we also welcome that, because they are part of the public-private collaboration and agreements that the pharmaceutical schools make with public administrations, to the extent that all these dimensions are essential, that of commerce, that of health centres and that of public interest centres. They are also essential in relation to their obligations, to hours, to nighttime, with many obligations, especially characteristic of pharmacies in their commercial activity. That is, in that sense, an additional reason not to understand the exclusion of the order of the Basque Government. In addition, the pharmacy offices have made very important investments in modernization, computerization, robotics, marketing... Also, in employment, in employment generation and, as a better performance, the exemplary process of implementing the electronic recipe in the whole of Spain, which has then been followed by many other investments that we have been able to verify each and every one of us as users in the pharmacies that we see, in new investments, computer, technological, infrastructure, robotics... I mean, we've seen it, we've checked it day by day, and it's been an important effort for professionalization. And they have done it in cities, they have done it in our towns and in all geography, and it is also that they will continue to do it for European demands even – we will talk about this in a second – because it will be necessary to expand the capacity of the pharmacies in their distributive work, in their commercial work with the customers. As an example has also been the time of public-private collaboration to which the pharmaceutical schools of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa have always been open with the Administration, through many formulas, through conventions, through initiatives, through legal instruments, but also through a natural collaboration that has worked very well and that we have all been witnesses of it; because they have also explained it to us, we have also known it, and that is what should continue to work, and now it seems that something is going into crisis. And the best they do is, in addition, professionalizing their offices. As the pharmacists reminded us on the 8th day in the committee, the number of pharmacists per pharmacy is 3.3 on average in the Basque Country, higher than that of the whole of Spain, which is 2.4, or the most advanced countries of the European Union; they also reminded us the other day here. 3.3 pharmacists, apart from other people, other auxiliary staff in pharmacies, not counting distributors and other staff working around the pharmacy and what the pharmacy generates, as a commercial activity. In other words, the pharmacy office is being professionalized more and more every day; it generates employment in the 834 pharmacies in Euskadi, and yet this does not deserve a commercial consideration for the Basque Government. And not counting, as I said before, the investments that are coming at the moment, such as adapting the electronic recipe to countries of the European Union, which is already there. That is, more demands, more complex international management, languages, adaptation to new regulations, adaptation to drugs, their names; that is, a complexity that will have to be assumed by the pharmacist and the pharmacy office in their commercial work, in their work of brokering with customers. That is to say, the pharmacy office is a business of proximity, it is a health centre, it is a social health centre, it is a private business of public interest, it will soon be a private business of international, European public interest, and we do not understand how they are deprived of the aid of the Department of Commerce, and that is why we ask that, in the next call of the order of aid to trade, they be included again, after two years of incomprehensible rejection. We have seen this because they are concerned about this exclusion, they do not understand it, and we have seen that neither have we nor them been explained why this rejection has been made. We understand that this is unjustified, and that is why we have tabled the motion to: "Parliament urges the Basque Government to reintegrate the pharmacy offices as beneficiary entities in the orders of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption in which the programmes to support the modernization of commercial establishments are regulated and convened". This is something that we believe should continue to be the case; that is, there are no amendments to this initiative, some have already told me that they are going to reject it, we do not understand it, we do not understand it, and they will explain it to us now. In any case, if they reject it, we will establish the way to try to get the Department of Health to take over what the Department of Commerce and Consumption has abandoned. But, well, we'll try it the way we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Zuzenketarik ez dagoenez, tandeen txandara pastuko race. Euskal Sozialistak, Corcuera andea. Explanation of vote? It's a PNL, it doesn't have... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u49	Yes, the Socialist Group will go to explanation of vote. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u50	Corcuera andea, hitza daukazu txanda honetan, nahi baldin badusu. Beastela, ez dago boto-azalpenik... It's a PNL; we've always done it that way... Article 99.4. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u51	Thank you, Madam President, but the Socialist Group does not share the Bureau's decision, and this is the first time we have been in this situation. I don't understand why I'm forced into the debate, but, well...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u52	If you don't want to, don't get into the debate. You can vote and not get into the debate. If not, then it is discussed...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u53	Yeah, but I'll have to explain my vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u54	Well, there's what's there. That's the turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u55	Oh, well! Well, nothing... Mr Barrio, I would like to say to you: we are not going to support your proposal, and let us go ahead with the recognition of the Basque Socialists to the work of the professionals in the pharmacy offices, as agents of full right in the health system. Look, there are two reasons why we are not going to support the reinstatement of the pharmacy offices as beneficiaries of the Aid Programme for the Modernisation of Commercial Establishments: Firstly, because its claim is contrary to the management policy of the Aid Programme for the Modernisation of Commercial Establishments, because its proposal distorts the objectives that were set after the evaluation of the Trade Master Plan and the reallocation of resources that was also carried out after that evaluation, which led to a change in the criteria of the programmes, in order to make them more effective. And secondly, we do not support your proposal because of the specific characteristics of the pharmacy offices in Euskadi, because they are explicitly regulated by the Pharmaceutical Management Act and, by being excluded from the famous service directive – from the so-called directive Bolk e stein, stein, – this gives them a clear competitive advantage over the rest of the commercial sector, because their main activity is not a free market economic activity, as it does with the rest of the commercial sector that are not pharmacy offices. The Aid Programme for the Modernization of Trade Establishments, in the context of the policies of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, is due to the need to respond effectively to the process of conversion and modernization of small trade. Because small trade, as an economic activity, is facing substantial changes for its present and future existence: changes in technological development, online trade Therefore, the main objective of the Aid for Trade programmes is to promote the competitive improvement of the commercial sector by supporting its consolidation and facilitating its renewal. The new criteria introduced to achieve greater efficiency of the program are consolidation of the company of at least three years, technological investment by management software or websites for online sale Because the pharmacy office, on the other hand, carries out a main activity as a health agent, regulated legally and exempt from the liberalisation of internal trade services, because that directive Bolk e stein, stein, excludes health and pharmaceutical services from the liberalisation that it applies to the rest of the internal trade services. And, therefore, the pharmacy offices are not playing or playing with the same rules or having the same adaptation needs that the rest of the small business sector have in that free-market and free-competition economy. The great difference, Mr Barrio, between the pharmacy offices and the rest of the small trade sector is that their activity is regulated by the Pharmaceutical Ordering Act 1994 and that the criteria for the establishment of pharmacies are technical-health criteria, whose regulation, exceptionally endorsed by Europe throughout the internal trade activity, exceptionally limits their free establishment and even their activity in the free market from free competition. That is the competitive advantage of the pharmacy offices, that this competitive advantage does not have by the rest of the small trade sector, and that leads the public administration to intervene, modifying criteria and reallocation of resources in this programme of aid for the modernization of commercial establishments. In conclusion, pharmacy offices are not shops for use. Their main activity in pharmaceutical services gives them a competitive advantage, through the existing European autonomous and regulatory regulations, which do not have the rest of the small trade sector. For this reason, the Basque Government's plans, actions and trade support programmes must prioritise the general interests of most of a sector, which does play exclusively in the league of free market and free competition, in a scenario which is also very complex, difficult, of conversion, and which is posing a clear disadvantage, compared to the pharmacy offices, which, although they have seen their profitability diminished – told us by the President of the Pharmaceutical Council of Euskadi – because of the decrease in income due to the supply of medicines, do see a better future in this profitability in health-related social and clinical services. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Becerra, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u57	Good morning again. Mr. Barrio declares that in his motive medicines are excluded from the commercial department's support program. But we don't agree, and because we think that they're not rejected and that's about to decide whether he's going to come in or not, we'll vote against that motion. The order of the Department of Commerce, Tourism and Consumption of the Basque Government, the order of aid for the renovation of infrastructures and management tools in the shops, in its article 3, does not exclude only pharmacies; excludes the sale of weapons, excludes the trade, wholesale and retail, of both fuels and vehicles. In other words, there are several activities that are excluded. To our group, it seems that this exclusion from various sectors is the prerogative of the Basque Government. It has already been explained in the previous intervention as well, but it is the power of the Basque Government, and if a sector considers it appropriate to be within it, it has tools, such as the contentious-administrative, to deal with the call for such subsidies. Beyond that, and making it clear that there is no discrimination, which cannot be dealt with by the corresponding administrative or administrative-legal channels, what we could ask ourselves is whether or not pharmacies are one of the excluded sectors. Our group believes that it is, because, as has been said here, it is a regulated sector. I mean, you can't put as many pharmacies on a street as you want, and you can put as many bakeries as you want, because there's that freedom, that free competition, somehow. And, being a regulated sector, obviously, they do not compete under the same conditions as the rest of the trades that can be the subject of such aid. We could debate, and I believe that there I have to give Mr Barrio some reason, as to whether pharmacies have a single commercial objective; they also have an important and fundamental socio-health objective. But in that case, this would not be the case here, in this debate, with regard to aid from the Department of Commerce, but how the Department of Health can help pharmacies to do this better. And the reality is that these aids have existed for pharmacies, specific to pharmacies. In 2011, when the electronic prescription was launched, the Board of Pharmaceuticals of the Basque Country received two million euros, exclusively for Basque pharmacies, to adapt their management systems. Therefore, it is not true that pharmacies are left out of all kinds of aid, and it is true that the Department of Health has its own lines. We could talk, it's true, that the economic crisis, in the near future, is probably going to affect some pharmacies more than others and that there may already be pharmacies, and in fact there are, that are seeing their sales figures reduced, as there are also bakeries and dry cleaners and fisheries... All trade is suffering, and I don't think pharmacies are the most suffering sector, but we could assess this issue. What I understand is that this is not the time, because then we would have to make an assessment of neighborhood pharmacies or rural pharmacies, which do have a socio-health component, which do have a more important social component than others. But, as I say, this is not the time for this debate, and we therefore understand that, while respecting Mr Barrio's right to present the motion, our group is certainly not going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u58	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u59	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. As Mr Barrius has described, the chemists have remained outside the help program to modernize the shops, and, as has been shown, the Ppolitical legislature has not agreed with this order and brought it to this meeting, and today we shall discuss it, Mr. Barrio, on the third. But EH Collect hasn't changed his mind. You know well what we're going to vote for, because I've told you more than once. So there's not much to say about us. The day before yesterday, we continued the proposals proposed at the Medical Committee, and we shall repeat some opinions which we proposed there, and I shall be brief not to be bored. We acknowledge it, and praise it, from the chemist's offices, and from the commons, the persistence of so many treaties with the Department of Health; it is necessary, in our opinion, and moreover, that the unions participate in many programmes and enterprises, in order to serve so many services. The public and private cooperation is therefore established, and we approve of the work we do by that means. It is undeniable the work that the pharmacy offices carry out in the programs of adherence to treatments, in the drug-therapeutic follow-up, the work they carry out in the follow-up of the treatment of opiates, in the prevention of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases... It is fair to acknowledge the work they are also doing in the social and health field, as Mr Becerra has said, for example, as regards the use of medication with the persons assisted in home help services. In addition, the cool pharmaceutical pharmaceutical pharmaceutical has been pushed into the program, and they're involved in a lot of medical strategies, including suicide in the preventive strategy. But we can't forget that the pharmaceutical offices, in addition to all this work, are in private business, and that, in our opinion, they get enough public money at this moment. But we'll focus on the legal proposal key. The pharmaceuticals have been excluded from a command published by the Department of Commerce and Contsamos, as has been said before, from the 14th of May 2019. And the end of borrowing by this command, is this: To modify the image and perception of society with respect to commerce, to give it a professional prestige, and to encourage and assist its modification, to renew and modernize the trade-houses. Now let's do the exercise: I like to be pretty clear, and we're going to do an exercise to visualize a little bit what we see around small local shops, those of proximity that Mr. Barrio said, in our neighborhoods, in the old historic helmets of the cities; they won't be able to deny that there is less trade, less small trade; they won't be able to deny that this bakery that you said in the commission, that drugstore, or that those that are kept are kept with many difficulties. How many shops of this type have disappeared in their neighborhoods, in our neighborhoods? And now I propose another reflection: does anyone know any pharmacy offices that have had to lower the blind? Well, not me. Do you know of any small business in your neighbourhood that has had the same counter for several generations, and not out of pleasure, precisely that it is lacking to modernise, in terms of telecommunications, new technologies? Me, yeah. How many pharmacy offices do they know in this situation, that they are missing a computer and make the tickets by hand? Me, none. Do you know any pharmacy offices that need to change their image to gain professional prestige, as that order says? Me, none. Mr Becerra has put another item on the table, and I will put it too. Let's talk, if you want, about pharmacies that are located in rural areas with a small population, and that may have compromised their economic viability – that's true, those offices called pharmacies VEC – but they also receive annual extra-economic compensation from the Department of Health. On the other hand, let us remember that the representatives of the pharmaceutical schools, on Tuesday's committee, assured that an average of 3.3 pharmacists and pharmacists work per pharmacy office, and to that must be added another type of professionals with whom they also count, assistants, etc., etc., which is good news, because, as they said, they contribute to job creation, and we agree. But now I ask you again to do that visualization exercise and to look at that small trade in your neighborhood or town, and tell me whether the owner or owner of that trade can afford that level of recruitment. On the other hand, it is true that nine years ago in all the chemist's offices had necessarily been established, an electronic recipe, and an investment demanded by this implementation; The representatives of the pharmaceutical schools announced in the Health Committee that they intend to extend the electronic prescription to other areas, such as prescriptions for private medical services, veterinary services, mutual services; I hope, Mr Barrio, that this is not the need for modernisation that you demand in this plenary, because we do not see any other fit for it, and I say to you, from now on, because I do not share it. And as private businesses they are, because we also understand that from schools they request access to this line of subsidies; it is normal. But we, as I say, cannot fulfill or share that idea. Now when we have examined all these things, we are convinced who are to be benefited by this contribution: "Yes, it is in our opinion that the stalls nearest to us are acceptable to us as they are ordered. This proposition, therefore, which is just for us, has no course, and, as has been said, we shall vote against it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians, Mrs. Othello, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u61	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning. Well, our group is also not going to support this initiative of the People's Group for the reasons that I will comment on below, and I will try not to repeat myself too much, because the arguments are similar to those we have already heard, and surely, although I will try not to repeat myself, I will do so without a doubt. We are talking about an aid programme that the Department of Commerce, Consumer Affairs and Tourism has been implementing for a few years now, for the modernization of commercial establishments. It is a call that, as we say, goes back several years and, in this sense, logically, adaptations are needed, which are being incorporated throughout the different exercises, which is certainly relevant, in order to make them really suitable for the new realities that trade has to face and, above all, in order to focus aid on those areas within the most needy commercial sector. In this regard, the Department of Commerce, Consumption and Tourism made an analysis of the situation. Mrs Corcuera has explained this, and I am not going to expand or I am not going to repeat, again, the same arguments, for not extending too much. In any case, no one we are present here, of course, is hiding from us that pharmacies respond to parameters different from those of the proximity trade. We are all clear that pharmacies are something more than the typical local commercial; their situation, of course, has little or nothing to do with such shops; among other things – it has also been mentioned – because, in order to open a pharmacy, a number of very specific requirements are required that are not required for the rest of the establishments. It is a sector, the pharmacies sector, as we say, subject to very specific regulations, subject to health regulations, precisely because of the public interest of the health service offered from them. And these demands make the pharmacy office, so that it can provide an adequate service of proximity to the citizenry, necessarily, is part of the urban trade, but without forgetting, as I say, that we are faced with a sector subject to specific regulations, to a specific regulation to which the rest of the commercial establishments are not subject, which limits competition, and implies that pharmacies, in terms of the marketing of other types of products that are not medicines, have – let me put it this way – a certain competitive advantage, with respect to other sectors such as traditional trade, which move in a free market environment. A reality, therefore, very different from that of the so-called proximity trade, which is the one that is the priority in this order of aid on which we are discussing. But, as I pointed out earlier – I insist – as with any programme developed by the public administration, a programme that is further consolidated over time, because adaptations and adjustments must be made, in order to allow for an adequate redistribution of public resources that will allow to affect those who need it most, depending on the specific situation. In any case, I want to make it clear – there is no doubt I believe; but, well, we must insist, of course, that our group recognizes the great work, the great role, that pharmacies do as they contribute to improving people's health and quality of life. There is no doubt that they are much more than a commercial establishment for use, and they certainly count on and will continue to have our clear support, and not only our support, for clear support from the public administration, from the Basque Government. The Department of Health, as you know, has been working and working closely with the official schools of pharmacists for a long time. It has shown clear support for them. They have said this, we insist: there have been many years of collaboration and joint work in the implementation of different pharmaceutical care programmes. In fact, in the commission of last day 8, to which reference has also been made here, we were moved from the official schools of pharmacists themselves the clear recognition for this joint work and that support that from the Basque Government, from the Department of Health, they receive, a shared work that, as we say, takes time, and is also being followed. In this regard, as I say, there is no doubt about that support. There has also been a reference here to aid, even at the moment with regard to the implementation of the electronic prescription, aid in the field of VEC pharmacies. I'm not going to repeat the arguments again. In any case, I believe that these are actions that clearly demonstrate the support and clear recognition that is being made from the Government, from the Department of Health to the pharmacies, for the role they undoubtedly play and for being an important active agent in the health system itself. Well, I'm done, I'm not gonna spread out. –I insist–, reiterating what I was saying to you at the beginning of my speech: our group is not going to support this motion that the People's Group has tabled and, among other reasons, because we honestly believe that the group of pharmaceutical establishments at this time is not in a situation of special vulnerability or with problems of viability. Let us not forget that the public authorities must contribute, with the resources we have at our disposal, to the improvement and development of those sectors that present problems of subsistence such as trade, which is a sector that is suffering from very complicated situations, with situations of important competition. Well, we can't forget the multinationals, the usage changes that people have in terms of consumption. Well, different issues that are making you go through, so, complex and complicated moments. And, in that sense, we cannot but say that the spirit of this aid for the modernisation of commercial establishments is to prioritise, precisely, those businesses that really need this support, not only for their modernisation, but for their own subsistence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u62	Thank you, Miss Otalora. We'll pass the answers, Mr. Barrio, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u63	Thank you very much, President. All right, everyone values pharmacies, pharmacies and pharmacists and their work, but they leave them out of help. That is, the clamping of the four parliamentary groups against the initiative presented by the People's Party. The clamp Let us see: the fact of being a regulated sector, Mrs Corcuera, does not exempt you, nor does it leave you out of being a trade in every rule. Of course I do. The Pharmaceutical Ordination Act of 94... Well, look, it's been years and now, two years ago, we realize that pharmacies are part of a regulated sector and we have to leave them out of trade aid. Well, we don't understand that, Mrs. Corcuera. That's exactly what we don't understand, and no one's explained it to us. Because the Bolkestein directive, you have taken that out because it is very good for you and, of course, we do not understand or share what you say against the policy of managing the modernisation of commercial establishments. In other words, that policy will have to be changed. Because I say again: pharmacies are regarded as a trade in every rule, a trade in proximity, and it says why trades need to be made more effective. For also pharmacies, because that is what has been done since 1994, until two years ago, where they have been taken away from aid. Well, indeed, they have been able to benefit, and they will have to continue to benefit, because, I say again, there are very important issues on the table. The pharmacy office, Mrs Corcuera, is also small business and also the margins of the pharmacy offices are being progressively narrowed; they have already told us, that is to say you already know it. The pharmacy offices, you say they are not shops to use, but they have almost all the characteristics of shops to use. Because you well know that the pharmacy offices expend the drugs, yes, but what are they? For businesses of safe cosmetics, child feeding, personal hygiene, baby care and hygiene, podology, homeopathy, parapharmacy, safe sex; that is, they have a commercial characteristics like the rest of the shops, in many of the dimensions in which they operate. In that sense, we do not understand that the whole commercial dimension of pharmacies is outside the aid, and that is why we are demanding it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u64	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u65	Mr. Becerra also said that... Because he's got the pharmacy... "Not only are pharmacies excluded; there is the sale of weapons and the sale of cars..." Let's see, that's fine, yes, of course they are excluded from the support for commercial activity, but don't compare me, please. Don't compare me to the traditional pharmacy office of our towns and cities – and some pharmacy offices have closed, some towns around have had to close and close their pharmacy office, and we know that...– But don't compare that exclusion to me, because it doesn't make sense. The pharmacy office, you say, well, that's something the Basque government says, and, as the Basque government says, we assume it. That is not a reason, because you do not share many of the things the Basque Government does in its ability to regulate. And, of course, support will be needed in the future. Because, with the e-prescription, you were talking about two million euros you received. Two million euros, between 834 pharmacies, are 2,400 euros. Well, well, that's, that's why it doesn't seem like an unorbited amount to me, understanding... We already know that some pharmacies have received more than 2,400 and others less, but it does not seem to me to be an unorbited amount. And, Mrs. Blanco, to visualize the pharmacy offices and their modernization in contrast to other commercial establishments... Well, fortunately, it looks like the pharmacy offices are hanging out with computers, giving you a ticket. The case of the pharmacy offices is that they have all the characteristics of the shops, and they also perform a public function and a public interest, and that is what happens. And that they have an obligation to modernize, even if they do not give them aid, because in the last two years they have not had aid, and they have continued to put computers for the electronic recipe, they have to continue to issue tickets And there is one fundamental thing, and with that I conclude, Madam President. Look, the European Commission has already reported that a further step has been taken in the implementation of the European e-recipe. Since the 17th of June, Finnish citizens will be able to pick up medicines at pharmacies in Estonia; since January this year, they will be able to do so in the boticas in Croatia. Okay, but, look, the intention is that by 2021, a total of 22 countries –2021, here, around the corner – are sharing information, through this route, from the European Union, to apply the dispensation criteria through a European digital programme in several countries, including Spain. That is to say, by 2021 we will have to make investments and adaptations – and I say this again because I said it before – in international management, in the area of languages, in terms of many things in relation to what the Administration has to do for pharmacies. And so, without the support of the Administration and the Department of Commerce. We will continue to try: this time we will urge the Department of Health to assume an obligation that will be necessary in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u66	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u67	Thank you, President. First of all, I must admit that the Bureau was right: we were wrong about the explanation of vote; but, well, it is not wrong to leave this House knowing something else. Secondly, with regard to what Mr Barrio was proposing. Look, I get clumsy sometimes, don't I? Because when you're involved, you have to keep making mistakes. But I think you are fully aware of the difference between the pharmacy offices and the problems that the small business sector is experiencing, what are the differences. The main activity of a pharmacy office is regulated by the Pharmaceutical Management Act 1994. An evaluation of the Trade Master Plan has been carried out two years ago, with a particular focus on how the objectives of the Trade Master Plan are being met or not, and that evaluation led to a change in criteria, including, among others, some of the programmes, to the Programme for the Modernization of Trade Establishments. And, thirdly, I have not invented the Bolkestein directive: I would not have come out, if it had been my thing, surely it does not come out. Because the service directive, Mr Barrio, something that you have looked like or implied as having been invented here by me in rondón, is the key piece of this topic in the pharmacy offices. Because the activity of delivering or delivering pharmaceutical and health services, which are primarily carried out by pharmacy offices, is an activity that is not liberalised through this service directive; it is not liberalised from internal trade services. And that's the competitive advantage that the pharmacy offices have over the rest of the small business sector, street sales, whatever you want. All other internal trade services are subject to market freedom and liberalisation of such services under that Bolkestein Directive. Therefore, it is not that you do not understand; I consider you to have enough height and intellectual and intelligent level to know where the differences are. Therefore, you do not want to understand, today you did not want to understand the position of the four groups, and it is not that it is a clamp; it is that, listen, because sometimes, these things happen, that one remains, indeed. I'm sorry you couldn't fix your initiative or take it on other roads; but, well, I guess you'll make another initiative and try to get it to a good place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Together, Podemos, Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u69	Simply to clarify to Mr Barrio that what I have tried to say in the rostrum is that the pharmaceutical sector has other ways that are not this Parliament to defend its position, and it is... – now? yes – that the pharmaceutical sector has other ways, in this case the administrative-contentious, in case the content of the order of the Department of Commerce is not adequate to them. Our group is right on this occasion; we do not keep the clamp between you and me, as you can see. In fact, we would have excluded even some other commercial sector; but, well, we admit that the order is like this, and that the sector that feels discriminated against can go to court. That being said, Mrs Corcuera must be acknowledged that, in fact, all this comes from the directive. Bolkstein, a directive which, by the way, was adopted in the European Parliament with the votes of the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group. Nothing more. DEBABES Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mrs. Blanco must not speak. And, Mrs. Othello, you've got the word. OTALORA ARIÑO Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, in fact, pharmacy is a business and close because it provides a service of proximity to the citizenry. In that regard, it must logically be included in the urban trade environment. But assimilating or resembling the pharmacy to another kind of commercial establishment, I don't know, like a bakery, for example... How many bakeries can be opened in any of our streets, in our neighborhood or cities? Two? Three? 28? As we have mentioned earlier, the pharmacy is subject to specific regulations, very specific regulations and, in this regard, I believe that we are all aware that the circumstances are different, with respect to other commercial sectors. Precisely, a regulated sector does what it does is to ensure that there is no excessive proliferation of unchecked pharmacy offices; it guarantees them that they do not have competition. But it is that, in addition, you have given us a long list of products other than medicines that are sold in pharmacy offices, related to the care of personal hygiene, nutrition, etc. Man, it won't be me – or my group, of course – who doubts that that's okay and that it's convenient for them to sell these kinds of products. But these establishments, the pharmacies, let us not forget that they benefit from the exclusivity that gives them, precisely, that character that they have as the pharmacy office. In this regard, it may not be the time for them to be eligible for this type of aid, which at this time has been considered more appropriate to focus on commercial establishments operating in the free market and facing greater difficulties. I believe that this positive discrimination which is being done in this order of aid which we have discussed today is directed towards this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u70	Thank you, Miss Otalora. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put it in the vote the original text of Mr. Carmelo Barrio's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 8; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0; the abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u71	So Carmelus Barri's motion was not accepted. At this point, I interrupt until 3:00. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-two. At about three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u72	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "Provide another proposal of the law made by the parliamentary team, in the section of research and development in 2020th year of the EAP 3% of the Union. Discipline and final resolution. It's your call, Mr. Casanova, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u73	Yes, yes... I've had the honor of being the first speaker in the afternoon. And I foresee that I shall have no pity: it will be long and not light in my interference, because I think the subject deserves it. I know that I'll make love to him, but life is so. I don't know if you know or remember the Achilles paradox and the turtle. I imagine something will ring you; I show you a graph to refresh memories. The philosopher Zenón de Elea said that, in a race, if a turtle was given enough advantage over Achilles, Achilles would never reach the turtle, because every time Achilles made a tour and arrived where the turtle was initially, the turtle had already moved. And so indefinitely... This is very anti-intuitive, and the logic immediately tells us why Achilles is going to win the race, because Achilles is going faster. Surely, if the turtle was asked in a sports program, after the race, why Achilles has won, I would say, "Man, I've gone well, I've gone well, I've gone fast, but Achilles was going faster." And this anecdote or paradox came to my mind when I heard the explanations of Councilwoman Arantza Tapia, the Councilwoman for Economic Development, about why we had dropped from the second to the third European division in the field of innovation. My partner, Miren Larrion, asked her a question, and she, among other things, replied: "We have a study that confirms that, to this day, Euskadi is more innovative than two years ago. This is how it has improved 12% on average over the last few years, while at the same time improving it; however, other European regions have innovated more, gone faster, reached 17%. Therefore, our relative position has worsened." All right, clear up. It's not our fault: we as the turtle go forward. The pity is that these Europeans, arterios, trilers, run more than we do, and have advanced us... That is why the result is the following: third European division, third division. [Orri beat erakutsi du] R & D policy in this country has failed, and I already know that they are bigger words, which should not be said lightly, but R & D policy in this country has failed. And it has failed in the two dimensions in which a policy can be valued, qualitatively and quantitatively: In qualitative terms, so we have just commented, because in a composite index – and I say that it is qualitative because it not only measures a data, but combines up to 17 indicators, and from there it realizes an overall view – as the indicator the European Regional Innovation Panel, we have lost the category, with a strong regression and acquiring a huge distance, not just from European leaders, but from the European average itself in innovation. This tells us three very serious things: it tells us first that we have moved from being a region of high innovation to a region of moderate innovation. That's what I was saying: we're out of the second category; because even if they sold us the bike that we were the most, we were in the second category. We've moved from second to third. In 2017, we scored 91.4% against the European average, and in 2018 only a 79. And in the ranking And of course, here too, the guilt, as the turtle said, is of Achilles who runs a lot, is of the Europeans who investigate more, is of the State that penalizes us in the ranking And he said that he has failed in this very complete qualitative indicator – which is one of the best references we can have – but also in the quantitative, badagoelako bigarren adierazle bat, funtsezkoa dena herri batek duen eboluzioa, ikerkuntza eta garapenaren arlean duen politicaran ebaluazioa, ezagutzeko: hori da barne-produktu gorren zer ehunek inbertitzen den ikerketa eta garapenaren politicakan. And this was the result that in Urkullu's time, for saying hilarity, was irascible. It's an arrow going upwards, because Europe's evolution, like the Europeans, runs more than we do. And this is so serious that we've stepped back. We clearly retreated. The Science and Technology Plan, which is the country's Strategic Master Plan for Science and Technology Policy, predicted that by 2020, EUR 1.909 million would be invested in research and development. It renounced the 3% European target, because not even reaching that amount would have reached the 3% target. To put the least aware of the issue, we will say that the Europe 2020 strategy, i.e. an official strategy of the European Union, already recommended a few years ago that by that date – by 2020 – the states should try to reach 3%. It wasn't binding, it wasn't mandatory. The European Union was logically aware of the differences between the starting points and the possibilities of each other, but established that recommendation. Our country, our Community, has chosen not to aspire to 3%, not to design a policy that reaches 3%, and yet the objectives set out in the PCTI have not been met. We are going to make a small review of the evolution of R & D investment in recent years:In 2017, a 1.85; in 2018 we have the definitive GDP data, but we do not have the R & D data, because Eustat has not yet published it. That's right, he's made a breakthrough in which he says he calculates he's going to climb by 4%. With that ascent of the Four percent, we're still at 1.85. They'd go up a few thousandths, but we'd still be at 1.85. If in 2019 investment in R & D and gross domestic product rises by 4 % again, we would be in 1.88, and in 2020, the final year of the PCTI, if investment in R & D and GDP – let's calculate – rise by 4 % again, we would be in the percentage of 1.91. These last two years are projections, explaining the method by which these projections have been made, but obviously based on the most recent official data available. The problem of being 1.91 in 2020 – the last year of the PCTI – is that the PCTI starts in 2015 and the last data available in 2015 was 2014, which was 1.94. Which means that we've made a strategic plan that's back to being the birth of the mountains, we're back to the starting point. I don't know if anyone will call this circular economy, but what I call it is a failure. Five years of strategic plan to be a little worse than at first. I think this is pretty serious. La Unión Europea no ha bajado en el esfuerzo. The European Union, year after year in 2005, has increased its relative exertion in study and development, the average has increased, and we have had some incidents. It's true he's been promoted for the last year, but he's down there three times before. We started this race from European Union. The member autonomous association was below the average of Europe. In 2008, two graphics cross. We get to the average percentage of Europe in 2008, in 2009, we get over Europe, and we're over Europe for a couple of years, but in 2004 Europe comes forward again and leaves us behind more and more. And it is not only that the average of the European Union is superior to our industry, but also that of China. And what to say in Europe and in a worldwide level between advanced countries. For these are the best that we can do, and leave us in disgrace, shamefully, shamefully, in the country or in the country. The objective of the PCTI, the Science and Technology and Innovation Plan, was to increase investment in this area by 583 million, which, taking into account the starting point, envisaged or aspired to increase investment by 44%. They were objectives that, as I said, were far from aspired to the 3% recommended by the European Union, but they are still not going to be met. Today we have the latest data, and given the short time remaining, which show us that it is impossible to achieve the PCTI's own objectives. According to the calculation above, we are much more likely to be between 210 million, which would mean a 15% increase, that is to say, one third of what we wanted to achieve. So in study and innovation, in the level of Europe, downhill: From the second division to the third division. In investigation and development, at the end of the strategic plan, we will probably go back to 91, the result of this strategic plan has been a third-third of the predicted growth, which concludes that the effect of the inflation, as we speak in money, is nearly solved. This, as I was saying before, we may call it what we wish; but what we think is that which it reflects is that the politics of study and development have failed. And to try to fix it, to help solve it, we brought a proposition today. Gu oso onak race technologiaren sparru batean; nik uste dut Euskadi, Erkidego Autonomoa, munduk abangoardian dagoela technologiaren alo batan. We are at the forefront of a single technological field, that of virtual reality, that of the virtual reality generated by this government, through its massive propaganda apparatus, to try to convince the people of this country that we are a power in leading industry, research and technology. It is not true: the data show us that it is not true. The other day, I don't know, in this newspaper [Orri bat erakutsi du] La Vanguardia Energética But the important thing is not that; the important thing is the sirimiri, that we enter the subway with a newspaper that tells us that we are the repera. And we have said more than once, unfortunately, that, owing to this virtual reality, elections can be won by the novel, but data is not visible in the novel, data is stubborn, and data tells us that we are going back to research, development, and innovation, and we think it's time to accept it, and, above all, to correct it. It's not the first time we've been talking about this subject lately. I identify two landmarks about this subject for the past few years, for two potent debates and two potent agreements have been in this subject: The old one in 2015, with PSOE's initiative: The meeting of EH was made a middle-way, and a deal went on, the other half, watching the public budget increase 5% a year. PNV voted no at that time, criticized a lot of this arrangement, but then applied because it found it necessary to make such an effort. He said other things that didn't work out, but at least this was done. The second agreement was made in 2016, and in this case, it was an initiative in the EH Union. We proposed that this Chamber should be made in this case by the Government to lead this autonomous community to %3 with the so-called social strategy, and that it would bring it here, after a renewed strategy and a joint, in favor of the investigation and development of a nation's authority. Economics occupys the central order of the citizens, of all the citizens, and of all political sects, and the axis of our economy is an industrial industry in the whole of the Basque people and in the autonomy of the community; Industrie, we have the per capita I've just mentioned. Today the media is announced that Germany has probably been retrograded, and we have not done household work for the following years: We have had the macronomic growth for the past five years, but we have not been able to transmit this economic growth to the beautiful productions of study and development. Beraz, gaur proposeatzen dipueguna eta, ocheririk ez badago, aurrera aterako ez dena –eta mirriak esaten doubanean, aurrera begiratzen dut, PPren aldera – is not, it is a very complicated phrase this to say to me, it is neither left nor right, because, normally, when you say that, something comes that is very right. Betting on R & D is as if we in this Parliament want to improve emergency exits; no matter how one feels Spanish, Basque or half pensioner: we all want emergency exits to work. And in this case, technology is not neutral, research is not neutral, the productive model is not neutral. It may have some connotations or may develop in one direction or another. That's obvious. But, as you all agree, the Communist Party of China, the Government of Korea, the Government of Germany, Sweden and the United States, as you all agree, the governments and the political parties responsible, is where the starting point is to strengthen and multiply investment in technology, because that is the only way to guarantee the future. This is not an agreement against the Government; this is not an agreement from which no one is left a priori. The ball is on your rooftops, but here I think we all fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u74	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr. Martinezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u75	Yes, good afternoon. Thank you, President. I have less time, but I will try to explain the position of our team in this point of study and development. In 2020, in Eucharin, in order to invest three% of the raw internal product, the point is that we are engaged in an agreement, and, as Mr. Casanova has said, we do not seem to have any agreement. That's right, from our team, we've signed a medium with the suggestion that our corrections are included in the middle of the proposed method. And I think not only today, but all the members of the legislature know the importance of this matter. Research and development are one of the greatest challenges we have as a people, both here and in the world, for financial reasons, but especially for the future, now for the ecological transitions we have to begin with and the modification of the production system. We recently called it a climate emergency in the legislature, but it is essential that we should arrive at the problem, and that is why investigation and development are indispensable. This issue is important, because it also represents an increasingly important source of employment, but it has to grow in quantity and quality. Eustat points out that there are 18,000 people with full dedication in Euskadi in this sector, but it is not enough. Because we have to go to a bigger horizon, in quantity and in quality. I am not going to repeat the data that has already been said, that I had many of them, but in the European regional index, I think that the situation in that index is very worrying; of those great headlines that we have in the media, in the Basquedi, on innovation, most of the news is very positive, but the index I think is very enlightening also from where it puts us. But we also need to draw attention to working conditions, also in the research sector, because they are not the desired ones, and precariousness prevails in this sector, in the research career at the University, for example. In addition, we also have a more than important gender gap in the research career. It is true that in the administration and it is true that in the university the rate of female researchers is about 50%, but in companies it does not reach 30%; I think that is a worrying fact. Surely, I am told that the Government has little to do with working conditions and the presence of women or men in the research career. But I believe that if we look at the data of who funds the research also in private companies, and there is the public money, we would have to be responsible for the working conditions with which these research grants are implemented. And also with the non-encouragement that is now being made of the recruitment of women researchers, for example. And I think we have a lot to do there, in that difference of more than 20 points between the public sector, at the university, and the private sector. At this moment we agreed, and at this moment agree with the law which has passed. In fact, it has already been explained that in 2020 the Parliament agreed to design and set up a plan to arrive at 3% of the raw internal procedure. And that was a headline recommended by Europe. And according to the last report we received from Eupstate, it has already been stated that we were at the 1st of the raw internal crime in 2017s. Three percent of that, very, very far. It is true that in 2017 it rose by some 10ths and that, probably, in 2018, when the final data are, it also rose by some 10ths. But we're far away. I don't know if that's what Mr. Casanova de Achilles and the turtle said, but we're very-very-very far away. And I think we should also draw attention to who executes R & D spending. Most of them are executed by companies, 75%. But there is a 25%, somewhat more, that is executed by the Administration, that is run by public institutions, that is executed by the University. But what we see here is that we need to draw attention beyond companies, because I believe it is the task of this government to strengthen investment in the public sector, in the university, in vocational training and in the public research centres themselves, because this funding accounts for 40% of investment in R & D+i. These are data on which we are linking, but we are saying that 40% of public investment contrasts with 25% of public sector execution. There is therefore a great deal of room for improvement in order for public centres to be strengthened, which I believe must be the main action of a government, for public research centres to prioritize, for the generation of public patents to be prioritized, for the sale of products to be generalized through public patents, with the aim of financing more research projects as well. And with a clear objective, which is to improve the well-being of the citizenry. Because I think the comment Mr Casanova has made, I think it is very impertinent. It is true that this may not seem to be left-wing or right-wing, but I think it is also an ideological debate, because research at all is neutral, especially from who does it and why it does it. That is why we were also making our addiction amendment. That's why we did it. We agree with the purpose of 3%. And we agree, too, with that part of the process. And we agree, too, with seeking a popular tradition, and I think that we must all think of it, and that we must encourage a popular tradition on this subject. But now, in Casanova's proposal, the deadlines have been reviewed, and I believe that a reasonable proposition has been made again. But we confirm that from us, we agree... But at the same time we want to put an understatement on what we invest. Research, innovation, but especially what kind of sector we invest in, which is not the same as gas oil or reassembled energy, which is not the same as the sector of arms or health. We must go on the road to a more just and more tolerable economic model than the day. That's why we're proposing our corrections, and that's what we've just inserted in the middle of the process, the production and strengthening of specific financial resources for certain sectors' development and innovation. In fact, we point to some; in the care of persons, for instance, in the tolerable exploitation of natural self-collectonal resources, and in setting up another of myrgetic patterns, especially in this sector, and there will probably be others. But we believe that there should be members in this House, among the various parliamentary groups, to have a serious debate, even calm; if today is not the day, it seems that there will be no agreement, for I believe that we will be able to do so at another time, if we agree among all groups, but I believe that a great pact must be built between all parties, a great pact for us to walk towards the future of what we want to be the Basque economy and society. I think it is worth laying the foundations of tomorrow's society among most of the actors involved. And this Parliament must also be involved in that design. And I think we have to make serious and measurable commitments up to 3%. Because I think we need to get closer to him, because of course he's okay... We will abstain in the joint amendment of the PNV and the PSOE. In 2017, we already told them in the budgets: well, moving forward will always be fine. That 5% they proposed in 2017, but with that objective we are not going to reach the 3% target; with that commitment, I'm sorry, 5%, we are not going to reach that target until 16 or 17 years from now. We're going to be late or we're going to be in the race for research and development in the world soon. We've got big competitors. This is a small country; but, as we are not taking the foundations at the moment and not taking the appropriate budgetary decisions, we are not going to be able to design a long-term economic and social system. I think we need fewer words, more facts and, above all, more budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u76	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u77	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. For Basque Socialists, research, technological development and innovation are key indicators of a country's economic development potential; they are a condition of its productivity and competitiveness, and are also a determining factor in achieving sustainable growth. The involvement of the Basque Socialists in the drive for research, development and innovation is already coming from afar. At the end of the 9th parliamentary term, with the socialist lehendakari Patxi López at the forefront, the news highlighted in the media was that R & D spending in Euskadi on GDP grew at a higher rate than the European Union average: Euskadi's R & D spending in 2012 represented 2.12% of Basque GDP, compared to 2.07 % of the European Union and against 1.3% of Spain's GDP. Investment in this area had grown three times as fast as the EU average and had also nearly tripled that of Spain. The investment in R & D had passed in Euskadi from 1.87 % of GDP in 2008 at 2.12% in 2012, when the average for European Union countries was 1.91% in 2008, and 2.07 % in 2012. The socialist government of Patxi López, with the economic crisis included, pushed research and development as an anticyclical policy to implement without compromise, because we were clear that the future of the Basque economy depended on our innovative and scientific capacity. And we are also clear that Euskadi is and will be competitive on a global scale if part of the knowledge on which competitiveness is based is generated by our R & D institutions and our companies. And, from this premise, the Basque Socialists presented, as has already been said here, in 2015, being opposition then, an initiative relating to promoting the pact for research, a pact that was approved in this House. That initiative, defended then by my colleague Isabel Celaá, we put it into practice and made it a reality by the Basque Socialists, when we agreed with the Basque Nationalist government the budgets for the year 2016, which included this 5% budget increase in funds for scientific research. And months later, in April 2016, at the end of the last parliamentary term, Euskal Herria Bildu proposed an initiative on the policy developed by the Government in relation to the situation created by the serious crisis facing the Basque industrial sector and the prospects for the future. From that debate came the agreement that transcribes us today, with some addition that Elkarrekin Podemos has proposed. This initiative was registered in December 2016. Its plenary debate was postponed to May 2018, and today, finally, three years after that initiative was registered, we have come to its debate. And based on the approach taken by the European Commission in its 2020 strategy, with the priority objective of investing 3% of GDP in R & D by 2020, this initiative I believe has three aspects to discuss: the 3% target, the date to reach 3% and the strategy to be implemented. And today we are in an 11th legislature in this Basque House, a legislature that also has different characteristics, political as well as different, to those of two legislatures. A legislature, moreover, with a coalition government, with a coalition government agreement, with a government agreement Basque Nationalist Party and Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra, which proposes on this matter, black on white, a commitment to research, innovation and technology, developing the strategy of smart specialization RIS3 Euskadi, with the commitment of an annual growth of 5% of the public budget, for at least a five-year cycle, aimed at R+D+i, to stimulate public-private investment in this area and strengthen the position of Euskadi as an innovative European region, with the aim of evolving, to evolve towards 3% of public-private investment in R+D+i. Today, the 3% of GDP target becomes clearly insurmountable, because it involves implementing in the budgetary accounts for 2020, in addition to the EUR 475 million commitment of the research pact, EUR 1,220 million. Today, the commitment could be closer to 2% and evolve to 3%, not without risks of course – the economy is not for many joys; we are all aware of the last, for example, of the last tariff surge – so it would not stop having risks, but, realistically, 2020 is not going to meet the 3% target. And we don't say this now, it was already said in the evaluation plans of the Science, Technology and Innovation 2020 Plan, in the first evaluation that was carried out in 2017. But the government's effort does not remain in this budgetary commitment to increase by 5%. In addition, the Government intends to develop 100 strategic research projects to position Euskadi as a leader in research projects. There is also a commitment to promote a special plan for the recovery, incorporation and consolidation of scientific talent in collaboration with companies, universities and agents of the Basque science and technology network, in which, in addition to quantifying the objectives of incorporating young researchers into the Basque productive fabric, the evaluation plans will be made over four years of the legislature. And for Basque Socialists, the generation and acquisition of knowledge is the key to the end of economic growth, and the main engine of competitiveness of companies. That is why we have to bet on research, that is why we have to bet on technological development and innovation, as a short-, medium- and long-term strategy. You were planning the need for a strategy. This strategy already exists. We may like it more or less because we do not reach the 3% target, but it is a strategy that goes towards this evolution towards 3% and achieve the maximum results. Among the 15 strategic plans committed by the Basque Government for this legislature, we have this Science, Technology and Innovation 2020 Plan. We have an intelligent specialization strategy to enhance the economic and sustainable development of the Basque Country. And this plan will be monitored and evaluated annually. Another important element of the initiative was the date set for this objective. Now it's set for 2023, I think. With the evaluation reports that are made in the years 17 and 18, on that date we could be, if everything were well at economic level, we could be exceeding 2% and evolving to 3%. Although, in fact, the slowdown in the economy is not a favourable factor either for Euskadi or for Europe, so that further progress can be made in this percentage of research. And to meet the economic scenario set out in the Science and Technology Plan, the biggest growth challenge of R & D investment is focused on companies. Public funding for R & D is twofold because of the capacity of private funds to leverage them through support programmes for business research. In November 2018, headlines were produced in the media indicating that the 5.6% increase in R & D money in Euskadi consolidated a trend change after three negative exercises. We are talking about 18,600 people engaged in R & D in Euskadi, 35.8 % of whom are women. In terms of financing, the private sector contributed 54.7% through enterprises, and the growth of public finance was even higher with 5.8%, 457 million euros, 33.6% of total financing. In February 2019, with regard to international research, it was said that Euskadi had found a gap in the field of international research until it became a European benchmark. And it was said that research in Euskadi attracts two euros for each euro that is invested. It is therefore more necessary than ever to remain committed to the government agreement, in order to increase R & D & I support budget allocations by that 5% and to be able to take advantage of the incentive capacity to generate the additionality that public funds have shown to have on private research and innovation funds. And this implies a budgetary effort far above the expected growth of the Basque economy, which will entail the allocation of EUR 1,773 million to R & D+i support programmes during the current parliamentary term, compared to the EUR 1,639 million initially foreseen in the economic scenarios of the PCTI 2020. In conclusion, while economic and budgetary reality does not allow us to commit ourselves to achieving this 3% of our GDP investment target, there is a clear commitment from the Government to maintain this 5% annual budget increase in R & D+i, to increase our spending in this area and to move towards 3%. This is an objective whose challenge lies in financing R & D in companies. The main area of improvement in the structure of financing is to increase the uptake of private funding, especially of those actors whose research is closest to the market. And on the matter that this is not an agreement to exclude: neither in May 2018 did you at least intend to speak with the Socialist Party nor have you now intended to reach any agreement with the Basque Socialist Party. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u79	Madame de Table, chief of departments, fellow members of the legislature, good evenings to all. I was insultingly young when on the radio there were hortaric songs that I still remember and have in my memory. And when I saw today's agenda and this GNP, the first thing that came to my head was one of those songs – to call it in some way – that started by saying "searching in the trunk of memories." Do you remember? It turns out that today's GNP that we are discussing you signed it on 29 November 2016, exactly the same day that the lehendakari Urkullu took office in Gernika for the current legislature. It seemed that you were in a hurry for the matter to be debated in this House. There was no government yet, and you were already nervous about this matter. We all hoped that the subject would come in at once, but no. We thought that you would have other matters, more urgent, and that you would have to postpone this urgent subject, but after a few months, I thought that the subject of study and development had been altered, and consequently the subject was not so serious. Until I saw it again on the agenda for the plenary on May 31, 2018, a year and a half later, and I imagined that there had been a disaster in R & D, and that you, concerned, were calling for debate on the issue, until the 30th of May – one day earlier – requested the adjournment of the debate. I relaxed again, everything was back in place; if you did not bring the subject to the plenary, false alarm. My surprise is your rescue from that relic to support it today, which has only been two years, 10 months and 10 days, exactly 1,045 days. Where is that initial urgency left, as if his life were in the matter? It could be seen that it was not so urgent or that the opportunity to take it out did not find it on its way through this legislature, that there were always more urgent things. And that leads me to the reflection of whether that surprising rescue of the trunk of memories is because it believes – which may be – that it is the opportunity to present it, or it is more that they no longer have other matters to discuss, that they have exhausted the opposing goods and that this is a sort of series rest. Now, I'm gonna stop here and get to the bottom of it. The GNP recalls that it is a mimesis of the motion submitted in April 2016, in which it requested the Government – as has already been said here – to implement a strategy for investing in R & D to reach 3% and called for such a strategy to be made before the end of the parliamentary term. They were already told, as I am going to tell you today, that there was already a strategy, the PCTI 2020, which had previously been approved in 2014 and was in place, precisely, until next year. It is also true that the legislature ended in July 2016, and little could have been done from April to July; it is not that the government did not do it, it is that if it had started doing it, it did not have time to do it. And when, by the way, a legislature is over, everything is over; it is being erased and new in Parliament, because after the dissolution of Parliament and after a new election, even if people seem the same, or even are, Parliament is another, it is new, and the government is new, it is another. That's right, so if someone wants to rescue previous proposals, he does them again; another thing is how late it is in substantiating them. For starters, let's see how it goes with the current plan, and according to the available assessment, the degree of compliance of the investments planned in the PCTI from 2014 to 2018 reached 90%, 6,642 million euros compared to those planned 7,349, and there is still one year left. Administrations have complied with a 96%, with annual increases this parliamentary term of the 5 %; companies with 85 %, and international financing with 102 %. That is to say, the planning planned for 2014, at least as far as public funding is concerned, which is the responsibility of the Basque Government and which is what is controlled by this Parliament, is being carried out more and more. But you do not analyse the fact, you simply basically ask for a strategy in which the only thing that is clear is that investment has to reach 3% of GDP. Why exactly 3 and not 2, 4, unless it is the figure that the EU 28 has self-imposed, it was self-suggested, when today, among the EU 28 countries there are only four that exceed 3% – I think they are Sweden, Germany, Austria and Denmark – there are five that are between 2 and 3, and the rest are below 2: Euskadi, with 1.85, which has already been said, Spain in 1.2 and the EU 28 just in 2, that is to say, the EU itself has failed its initial commitment, and after passing an industrial crisis that we cannot forget, however, we are more or less in the middle of the EU 28. I will also tell you, although you know this, with the economic scenarios of the Euskadi 2020 PCTI the challenge of going closer to 2% of the annual expenditure of GDP is considered to be a challenge for us; although it is a challenge with risks, because it implies that companies return to growth rates of their R & D investments above 4%, and, if you don't know, in 2013, 2014 and 2015 that rate was negative, in 2016 slightly positive, and in 2017 it has risen by 3,6 %. And, besides, you are very specific in the growth figure, 3%, the way to implement the figure leaves it in the field of the abstract and does not suggest ideas where to go in the increments of the contributions of the different agents of the system. I don't know if because you don't know or don't want to say it; it just suggests, more or less, that people talk and get together, for it's worth it, because they'll probably do it, but R & D, which you think is just investing, is reaching 3% of GDP, and requires many more actions and objectives than just investment. Therefore, the PCTI envisages objectives such as defining priorities, which is the RIS3 strategy, strengthening the industrial fabric, raising the excellence of the Basque science system, guaranteeing the human capital that develops research and development. All these I have mentioned are just some of the strategic and objective lines of the PCTI, regardless of the commitment to gradually increase the public budget, which the Government can promise, because the rest of the budget increases will have to be concerned by the rest of the actors. All these lines, as I have said, are rated with indicators that are measurable, and I could understand that here we come and reproach the Government for not achieving some of the objectives that had been proposed, but for reducing it all to millions of euros, to a percentage of expenditure on GDP, as it seems to me to be oversimplification. In this country it seems that everything is solved with budgets; nobody talks about ideas, of imagining, of working for, and you also stick, initially, to that figure being reached by 2020; now you have given us three years of oxygen, which is good, but, in any case, that increase is for now. Look, what if the system doesn't have enough scientists and technicians to absorb that huge amount of budget that needs to be added to the system? What if companies can't put in more budgets than they put in? What do we do with that? 3% of GDP? In large numbers, and I will explain it very simply, the foreseeable GDP for next year can be 80 billion euros. 3% is EUR 2.4 billion. The current projection of R & D by 2020 is 1.6 billion euros, of which the Government will put 480, 840 companies and technology centres and international fund-raising around 220. Basically, this would mean that if we assume that the variables that are not the Government are not going to change substantially, which does not seem, at least in the short term, to reach that figure yearned by you, the Government must make a supplementary effort for the coming year, by the 23rd, of EUR 800 million in R & D. Where do you get them? You tell me? Can you suggest which game we cut to get to that 3 % anorate? Well, I agree with the need to continue to invest in the field of research and development, with the need to keep tension in the resilient system of euphora in order to continue to increase, which is a guarantee to continue to be competitive... with the need to produce multiples, to continue on the way to growth. And that's a guarantee for social coverage to all citizens, to remunerate global improvements as society, and to increase the rate of equality, by building society more and more just. Having said that, I must also point out that Euskadi is growing in this area in a way that has to be, prudent, secure, realistic and possible, more when we come from an economic crisis that forced us to certain decelerations in order to prioritize the social capacities of the budget, which in 2017 came back and we have reached 1.85%, and from there it is necessary to continue to grow, but realistically, with possibility. This is, without jeopardising other policies and increasing a budget, in a way shared with the other actors involved in the R & D system and with the ability to add human resources to innovation, in a way that the system is able to absorb. Look, two things to finish: don't keep giving up so much data, because it binds up, because if we're so mediocre in R & D but we're at 120% per capita income, any simplistic logic would draw conclusions that wouldn't be good for you or me. And do not continue to look in the trunk of memories, which often hides objects that do not resist time, that are deteriorated and there is nothing more to look at the amendment, even the transactional amendment, that you have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u80	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The team that hasn't announced any correction, the Basque Popular, Lord Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is a pity that we have to have this debate on a proposal more than two years ago, to which we did not make any amendments at the time two years ago, because we have not been able to amend it now either. Because it is clear that we would have made an amendment to everything. We subscribe to almost everything Mr Casanova has said. Has R & D & i policy failed? In qualitative terms, it is clear that the pact reached by all the groups in this House – and I say all of them – in the 16th, which came from the agreement of the 15th, in which the PNV was not but joined in the 16th, it is clear that it has not been fulfilled. In fact, Mr. Casanova in the transaction that kicks him for three years – where he put 2020, he puts 2023 – because it is obvious that it is already impossible and impossible to rescue that agreement and that pact. Mrs Corcuera, I have to give you the reason that Mr López's government raised the percentage to 2.12, but not because he was an enthusiast, but because in the budgets that we set for him, we did so. Now, you realize that the Socialists have returned to the government and have been in the government for three years and we are below this figure. And we're below that figure. And the subject is quantitative, but it is also qualitative. We've been asking for years: listen, because even if it's less the percentage of money you spend and what about, we dedicate a paston. And we have been asking for years, in the qualitative one that someone has spoken about today, is: listen, what does this translate into? What patents does that translate into? What is really contributing to the industrial and economic fabric of this country? Which, today, we still don't have. And why have we abstained and are we going to abstain from everything that has been raised? First of all, because it's inviable. That is, the agreement, which is the repetition of what Bildu brought us three years ago, has now become unviable, but it has become unviable because it has failed in such a way that it is no longer viable. What was proposed three years ago as viable by all the groups in this House, including the Basque Nationalist Party, that by 2020 we were about 3% of GDP, investment, now everyone says it is impossible. In fact, the amendment by the PSOE and the Government does not even say that we are going to reach the 3% target, which we all set here three years ago. They say "evolved to..." That is what the amendment of the PNV and the Socialist Party says. That is to say, not even the objective that we all unanimously set three years ago is already covered by this Government in the amendment it has tabled. Therefore, Mr Hernández, the pact that we obviously reached three years ago, because it does not exist today, because it has failed. I mean, let's see: nothing has been done that was theoretically to have been done or that was to have been raised. And that is why we regret that this debate today we have on an initiative of two years ago, which no longer gives room and which two years ago could have its interest in saying that it is being implemented, or to move from 20 to 21 or 22, but today we understand that this agreement no longer gives of itself. But it doesn't matter because we got upset, I got upset yesterday... I've bothered to see this year's execution of the Basque Government, department by department. It's boring, it's been a long time, but we're seeing what happens in every department, because in every department there are R & D games, including Lehendakaritza. Innovation Fund, programme 5414, promotion of collaborative tractor projects and actions, 30 September, huh? Recognised obligations, zero; promotion of talent, attraction international researchers (Ikerbasque), recognized obligations, zero. More than 2 million euros. This is the execution of this year, on 30 September, with data from the Basque Government. If I go to the Department of Economic Development, which I regret is not the Counsellor, I go to research and development, programme 5411, to other companies, research aid programmes, budget 3.5 million, recognised obligations, 99,000. I don't know what percentage it is; it doesn't even reach 5%, does it? If we go to technology, chapter VII, thirty-nine, budget, 168 million euros; recognized bonds, 39, 39 million. This is what the Basque Government is implementing this year. If I go to the Directorate of Energy and Mines, which has technology and fund for innovation, 325,000 euros, zero. If I continue with the innovation fund, cybersecurity, SPRI, capital transfers, zero. [Orri beat erakutsi du] [Orri beat erakutsi du] But if I go to the Department of Environment, because there is for everyone here, I go to programme 5414, innovation fund, 1.5 million; they have lowered the extended budget from 1.5 million to 950,000: execution, zero. In the environment, in 5414, innovation fund, blank, counselor. If I go to Education: innovation of FP centers and SMEs, program 5414, 2,380,000, zero. This is the bet of this government... In education, the program supports research to excellence: listen, 2,000,000, zero. [Orri beat erakutsi du] This is the data that the Government sent us the other day and which we all have at our disposal, on the implementation of this year's budget on innovation, which is the subject we are talking about today. It is clear, then, that the issue has failed, that it is not a priority of this Government. I agree with what the representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party have said that it is no longer feasible, because it is true: they have turned into inviolable what we all agreed unanimously three years ago. And that's why we would have liked... And that is why we are not going to approve what we approved three years ago, Mr Casanova, because you have shown that this has failed; that is, that it is unworkable. And what needs to be done is to think about other things. And Mr. Telleria's right, too, when he says it's that companies don't know what... But, of course, the government has to think: are the incentives we give companies enough to invest in R & D or is it also a failure? Or is it also a failure? You were talking to me before the economic crisis; but, well, that economic crisis was also in Germany, it was also in Sweden, it has also been in all countries... Now, the Basque private companies that are – let's say – in which the decline in R & D & i research has most impacted, and now in the data you also have, from October, on corporate tax collection, lowers the collection, which means that companies are not doing very well. If the collection decreases and they have fewer profits, they will obviously have more difficulty in contributing to the investment in R & D+i. And all this has happened, taking advantage of the fact that there is the Finance Advisor, with a 2017, with a budgetary surplus of 1 billion euros, and with a 2018, with a budgetary surplus of more than 500 million euros, of more than 500 million euros, and with a 2019, in which, in the first six months, we had a surplus of more than 250 million euros. And yet, of course, we have surplus, because, then, the execution of some games is not carried out. And we, as a group, don't know if it's right or left, but we were in that pact with Mr. Lopez...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u82	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u83	I'm finishing up, Madam President. ... so that innovation and research would move forward, despite the 2009 economic crisis. And we increased the budgets in R+D+i, and we were in the 2015 pact, and we were in the 2016 agreement, because we've always been in all of them. What we understand, however, is that this debate must start from scratch and a new agreement must be put forward on a new basis, because it is clear that the ones we have, and as we have them, are not working.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u84	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the day's answers, the representative of EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u85	Well, I'll be more relaxed then. According to the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, if everything goes well, in 2020 we will reach 2% or get closer to investing in R & D on gross domestic product. That is, 2010. [Orri beat erakutsi du] Do you know what an invented and meaningless figure is? To say that the strategic stake of this legislature in the field of R & D is to develop 100 strategic projects. And why not 104, 117 or 41? Because they've invented it just so they can say they're meeting their goals. A figure of 100 strategic projects has been invented, which is not referenced in any international framework, which cannot be compared with anything to say that they comply. That's the strip you guys put on. A strip always very low, to say they do. When you encounter a difficult target, then you start to circumlocate and turn around. Look, this is where he spends on R & D. [Orri beat erakutsi du] What is a relic at the moment is a PCTI that is obsolete and has failed in all its objectives. And you come to me and you tell me that you don't need a strategy because there's no strategy anymore and that you may not like it. It's not like I like it or I don't like it. The lady was telling me... It's not like I like it or I don't like it. I am neither a strategist nor a stretegophilic, and what I want is for a strategy to work and to be evaluated on the basis of a set of objective indicators to measure its results. And what I am putting forward here is that in terms of R & D both the RIS3 and PCTI bets have failed on the basis of objective results. And that, if you want, discuss the data: give me another different data. I have an economy that is 80% of the European Union's level of innovation and 1.85 R & D investment. That's the data. Is that a success? Does that mean we already have a strategy? That, what is it? That's doing an abdication of responsibilities. Why, for the Socialist Party, in 2016 reaching 3% was a target and in 2019 it is not? What's changed? Has R & D policy worked? No, no, You've seen the results. What's changed? Well, we all obviously know what has changed, that you are now in the government and do not want to bother you. That is why I did not speak with you, I spoke with the person responsible for this area, with the party responsible for this area. If you open a door to me to break government discipline and resume the 2016 agreement and, instead of a 3, it puts me a 2.8, if you want to talk about more realism, if you want to talk about deadlines, I take the floor and I propose it to you. Just like the Party... Because you have the custom that, when a subject is a matter for a councillor, the party that manages that council is in charge of the negotiation. And the party that runs this counseling told me very clearly: nanay, nanay. Because they're very happy... Because they are very happy because they are doing well in electoral terms, because they have managed to generate that virtual reality. Data: 1.85. Data: the PCTI will not meet its objectives; it will stay very far from the 1,900. At best, you said 1,600. It's not even gonna be 1,600. It will not achieve a 15% increase in investment in five years. You want us to be the same as in 2010. This is the relationship between the R & D rate and the employment rate. [Orri beat erakutsi du] And this is the map of Europe. [Orri beat erakutsi du] And we have many proposals, we have many proposals, but here we did not come to propose a plan, we came to propose a methodology. A methodology that consisted of setting a goal and establishing a governance process to manage that goal, a dialogue with social actors and then a parliamentary debate. We did not come here to bring the concrete proposals. I will give you one: do not missell the leading technology companies in this country that belong in part to the government, such as Euskaltel. That would be a piece of advice. Give budgetary stability to the University, so that it does not have to depend on budgets every year. That's another one. Try to attract researchers with tax advantages and not yuppies from the City of London. That would be another one. Attracting women to industry and technology, creating... You say, "We don't know if there's going to be enough professionals to respond to that increase in investment." They've been in the government for years. Do you not know and do not have the capacity to look forward to what areas are going to be needed in the future and to induce and invite people to study and develop their professional career in those areas that are going to be needed? Well, there's another line of action. You can talk to the unions, which are fundamental in this matter. Oh, by chance! His Government had broken relations with the two main trade unions in that country. And so we could continue, but today's goal was not to establish a new plan. The plan has failed in measurable, objective terms. 80% in innovation; for the European average, 85. Maximum aspirations that propose us: to be the same as in 2010. Our economy needs an impulse, and we came to propose that impulse. We had not forgotten that this was the first initiative we put forward in this legislature. We had not forgotten at all, and we could have made a motion as a result of questioning or generated a new initiative, but this initiative, unfortunately, is just as effective as in 2016, when we presented it. It would be a relic if the R & D policy had worked. And precisely to prove that what is a relic is the PCTI, is the RIS3 strategy and is the R & D policy of this government, we bring the same motion, the same proposal, which we presented three years ago and has exactly the same vigour, because none of the objectives has been achieved and because there is still a need for an impetus to R & D. We proposed and continue to propose – and we will try again – a policy reform, a consensual reform, a reform that is then brought and debated in this House, a country pact, because 3%, at least as a target, is irrevocable. You settle in conformism and worry much more about convincing people that we are a technological power than we really are.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together, Mr. Potemus, Mr MartínnezIón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u87	I believe that, if we have to find out something about this debate, there are people in this House who have not wanted to debate. Mr Telleria has spent four and a half minutes of his time disqualifying Mr Casanova's proposal. It could be ours, it could be the People's Party... And I think that people, if they came here to see us and sat up there and we were telling you that we are talking about innovation and development and they could have seen – I could have done it and even apologize – parliamentarians talking about that if you registered an initiative I don't know what day, the other day I don't know which, the other day brought me a motion... Five minutes of 10 minutes on a topic we are talking about innovation, to see when it is or when it is no longer the presentation of the initiative, I think it would be like for us to make a rather urgent request that we go home. I think that is quite illustrative of the quality of the debate we have had this afternoon. Mrs. Corcuera has spoken of the past. He spoke again of the great absence of this House, which is Patxi López, because it is less bad that that government was. And it's true. And it is true that this data is there, but you are now giving up even the figure with which you left the government – Mr Damborenea has already explained this too. And you may be right that the debate must also be re-opened. We can also agree to organise the debate among all of us and to make an agreement in this House, which will not be just in this House, because it has also been mentioned several times, and I have also mentioned it: companies are fundamental, but also the University, Vocational Training and public innovation centres are fundamental. For our part, we were delighted and delighted to address that debate when we all wanted to, but we were talking about this particular initiative, and in the proposals that were put forward we were going to revise that deadline which has not been met since 2016, and the excuse is: since it has not been fulfilled, we have not arrived and above it are the data of non-implementation – which I believe would be more than non-implementation than those given by Mr Damborenea – which I think are further removed from any approximation to that 3%, and I think we should think a little bit about the real smoke policy that is being done with the innovation plans. And I'd like to congratulate... Look, yesterday I had a meeting with the Vice-Advisor of Vocational Training, with which we were talking about very concrete projects that are successful, and that, even as a Parliament, could be visited and supported; in that I have no problem, and there are projects, Mr Casanova has said the 100 strategic projects... Of course there are things that work; no one is making a catastrophic view of this matter, but that we are far from that 3%, I think it is a more than obvious reality. If we follow that pace, I have already said, I think the data is like for us to make ourselves look at: if we continue to inject and execute, that is another, that 5% annually, it is 16 or 17 years to come to that recommendation from the European Union. What we could say: let us analyse the current conditions of the Basque economy and let us say that the target is going to be 2.5; well, just as we have reached an agreement between the whole world. I don't think we have to make a totem of that either. 3%; but let us be ambitious and ambitious in that regard. It is 16 or 17 years old, and examples have been given here of the speed that certain countries and regions are taking in innovation policy, and I believe that this data from the European regional comparison of 132 out of more than 200 regions puts us quite in line: we will be at the head of regions of the Spanish State, but we are below the average of the regions of the European Union. I therefore believe that, if we are all willing, we can come to an agreement in that sense; what I am not willing to talk about is that if an initiative was registered in what day, and I do not know which, and precisely the trunk of memories that Mr Telleria said. We are talking about the future of Euskadi, the future of society, the future of employment, and a decent job for young people and Basque researchers. And that problem that we don't even have so many researchers, let's look a little bit at how many researchers we have around the world working in other places, after having graduated from Basque universities, because here they haven't found a job either. We are going to do a exploration of that, and you will see how sure we find people willing to work, eagerly, in their country, and to contribute and return what, through the University's public funding, has been their studies, to apply it in the future of the economy and the development of Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u88	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u89	Yes, thank you, President. Look, in April 2016, with the Basque Socialists in the opposition, the proposal to which Bildu's initiative alluded, we already said that the debate that gave us was an opportunity to reflect on the crisis that affected our industrial sector and its prospects for the future, because that was what it was all about: we were not talking about research and development; that was the title of the initiative, talking about the industrial sector... Don't laugh, Casanova, because it is. I believe that we are clear that applied research and development are fundamental to the development of a country, and, if we take into account the report on the assessment of the economic scenarios of that Euskadi 2020 Science and Technology and Innovation Plan, the 3% target of investments on GDP in 2020 would need to be around EUR 2.3 billion, of which companies would have to contribute 880 million, international sources – i.e. the Horizon 2020 Programme mainly – and public sources of finance, outlaws and the State General Administration would have to contribute 220 million, assuming that it would grow by 5% annually. And, in that scenario, the Basque Government would have to contribute EUR 1,220 million; therefore, to the commitment we already have of EUR 475 million by 2020, another EUR 725 million would have to be added. This amount is not payable by the Basque Government. Being clear that cutting investment in research and development would be a mistake and a bad business, the government's commitment to increase the budget annually by 5% to stimulate that public-private investment in research and development is what reinforces that position of Euskadi, that commitment of Euskadi as an innovative European territory, and that 3% must be evolved is an objective that we do not deny and that we do not fail to perceive, but must evolve. I've told you before: we don't get to 3%. The biggest challenge of growth and investment in research and development lies in corporate financing. I have not heard anyone here talk about business finance, and I think it is the key and important element in this matter. So, beyond vehement manifestations, as Diogenes the Cynic said: the movement is shown to be walking. And, in this case, the Government's commitment is established and has been fulfilled, even in spite of a budget extension. And I say this – without big... [Orri beat erakutsi du]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u90	Casanova, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u91	... to carry out some budgets... And I'll tell you more. The People's Party has been playing the game of cheating in solitary, because those of us who have budgets know perfectly well what it means in budget implementation to have prepared spending and spending with recognized obligations, and you have also cheated in solitary, Mr Damborenea, because you were talking to us about the recognised obligations, but not in the spending disposition, which is already contemplated. You said that the Socialist Government had not done just that to reach 2.12%, which thanks to the PP. Man, I am not going to deny it; you supported it from the outside with a basic agreement, but you do not tell this to Isabel Celaá that you really did not put in budgets the amount necessary year after year in the Socialist Government and in the socialist budgets to carry out this percentage of research. He won't say it's because of you, because, of course, I'd like to see you sitting with Isabel Celaá talking about this story. You, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, say that you had an interest in reaching an agreement. It is not true; you, when you are interested in reaching an agreement, call the two partners of government, call the two, in matters of labor relations... I am not limited to how the nationalist department carried this issue, because then, you talk to the PNV. No, Mr. Casanova. We already know that that's not how it works when we're interested in getting things really going. There is now a coalition government, but it is not a coalition government in which we do not talk about the Socialists because it bothers us: we do not mind anything, talking about nothing bothers us. And, on the other hand, you said, "They wanted to propose methodology." Hey, one year after a parliamentary term, do you propose a methodology? Is this the same as in April 2016, and then bring back another initiative in 2020 that does not lead to anything? I mean, we're always a little bit superimposed on things that don't really make any sense. All I would ask of you is that you do not feel dizzy about adopting budgets. If you really are convinced of your initiative, put it on top of a table, prioritize that initiative in the budgetary negotiations for 2020, and see if you are able, in that budgetary negotiation, to achieve that 3% target. Don't leave the door closed; try it, but really try it. Do not come to me later in the budget negotiation talking to me that no, better social issues than not research, because it does not touch. So, anyway, a little more... Being eaten with oneself always brings things to a good place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u93	Madame de table, good afternoon again. Never, never, and I've been out here sometimes... In terms of administration, you have called me, Casanova, chapter II, and you have called yourself chapter VI. I'm spent, and you're investment. From now on, you can all call me chapter II, and to him, chapter VI. There is one thing: spending always goes to the real economy; investment, sometimes, is speculative. Just take note of that. And no one has ever told me what time I have to spend down here. By the way, I have it timed, minute and a half I have devoted to a subject that I consider important. Now, if we start on that, from now on, there's going to be wood here, because here everyone comes to tell us about their own. Or haven't I fixed the position of the Basque Nationalist group today on the subject? That's enough, here it comes to fix. To debate things with 10 minutes, you cannot debate, Mr Martínez, you cannot debate. And you, Mr Damborenea, of course the execution you read is not the right one, because you are in D, you will have to be in O and B; that will be at the end of the year. Last year, 433 million: 429.9 had been spent on 31 December. That is the reality of the execution. But let us go to the debate; let us clarify the debate. I'm not going to waste time on things, because Mr. Martinez is going to reproach me that I'm saying things that we don't have to say here. We are in a PCTI that is already a pact; it is a pact. And the new PCTI, that of 2030, is going to do exactly the same, pacting – Government, deputies, companies, universities, research centers, Innobasque, Ikerbasque, Jakiunde–; there will be a scientific committee of 10 externals that will evaluate the program and contrast. The whole of Basque society will be able to say, and the Basque Parliament will eventually approve. At the end of this year, I believe that the first draft will be presented, which, by the way, will be aligned with the Europe horizon, and will contain all the lines of the 2030 SDGs, which you ask for in your amendment, and, by the way, in the 10 minutes that you have been and the five of you have not even quoted them, what you were asking for. Let's go back to the budget increase you're asking for. By the way, you're really into performance. But the Basque government invested 360 million in 2014, and in 2020, 480. An increase of 32 %. That's what you're doing. A total of EUR 2,95 billion, 107 % of the investment initially planned, will be spent. Investment, not spending. These are real figures and commitments. This is the reality. The Government wants to continue to fulfil its commitment to realism and without the demagogueries that I have heard here today. That is why it has been approved to increase this last term by 5% and is being implemented, because what we are looking for is a stability horizon for companies, centres and researchers. You guys pull it out, you make it up... the social pact, like a rabbit that comes out of the hoax, and that Euskadi must invest 3% already, 2020 or 2023. If we're talking about science and we're addressing researchers – look, you – let's learn from them, and let's at least be rigorous in the numbers they use. And I'm not talking about square roots, adding and subtracting. Because, is such an increase reasonable in such a short time? Is it effective in scientific results? Because, this is not a barbeque; you go to a barbeque, give it a euro and give it six churros. Logically, he gives two euros, and they give him 12 churros. In research, it's not like that. In research this doesn't work like this: at a time when you get no more patents, you don't get more trained researchers, you don't get more talent immediately; you don't get them. A constant, continuous and paused strategy must be followed with security and budgetary stability; that is what this is all about. We can get you an extra speed, and we are willing to talk to you to get you an extra speed, reasonable, but with commitment, constancy and stability. The motto on this subject has to be: bread for today, bread for tomorrow. Look, so much to ask, so much to ask... This Parliament has tabled quite a few amendments in this Parliament, and if you... No one has told me the budget lines that had asked to increase R & D, which have presented more than 4,500. I mean, I didn't start studying at 4,500, because I don't have time and then Mr. Martinez would say that I've wasted too much time preparing this speech in nonsense. And I've looked at the one I know most, which is Economic Development and Competitiveness, from the last, from the 19th. I have looked at the amendments. What have I seen? In the innovation programme and competitiveness strategy, unless it is massacred in Chapter II, there is no amendment, no increase or nothing. In the area of agricultural research, the Group of the European People's Party tabled two amendments to remove more than EUR 1 million from the AZTI and Neiker centres. In the technology programme, Bildu reduces it by 15 million euros, and in the industrial development and support of entrepreneurs by 100 million euros, to finance employment promotion, end the wage gap, sustainability of life and dignify the lives of men and women. It is commendable to make progress in these areas. But they had to get their hands on matches where very important R & D programs were located. That is, they reduced those programmes. That was only a year ago, while that PNL, and forgive me, Mr. Martinez, was sleeping in the trunk of memories. Now, a year later, they pull it out again to ask the government to spend an additional EUR 800 million. Do you realize that one thing is to preach and another is to give wheat? Preachers are you too much, perhaps too much; but, to give wheat, you are grasped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u94	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u95	Mrs. Corcuera. To see that I'm not cheating on you, I'll bring you just one leaf of Mr. Arriola's [Orri bat erakutsi du] Now, I have no doubt, given Mr Arriola's ability, as Mr Telleria reminded us, that on 31 December, of course, they will implement 100% of the forecast in the budget. I have no doubt about Mr Arriola's ability. Now, I also have to say to you: if it has already become clear to us that, after three years of government of the Basque Nationalist Party-Socialist Party, the objectives we had four years ago are inviolable. If that is why we have not approved what we approved four years ago, which is what this group is presenting to us, which you approved and which you approved. We already know that it is economically inviable; do not repeat it to us. But, of course, it is unworkable after three years of those governments, which for all of us was viable four years ago. That is why we have said that we are going to abstain, because it is already unworkable, because that agreement we reached four years ago is economically unworkable; it makes no sense to repeat it further. Let's see, Mrs Corcuera, increasing 5% of the budget does not mean that the expenditure is 5% more each year, because, if the implementation of the budget does not go that way, it does not go that way. And I recognize you a capacity, starting with Mr. Counsellor and Mr. De Hacienda and Mr. Arriola, to all of them, a capacity, to do in three months what they have not done in nine, infinite. I recognize that, because they are very capable, the entire Government, including the lehendakari. But it's unbelievable. Now, I find it a little regrettable that you tell us that in the execution – we are in extension – as we are in extension, we have not been able to increase the items, some have dropped them in the extension. The items could not be increased, but it is that, of this Government's priorities in the extension, no era of investment, no era of investment. The priorities of this Government, which, by the way, refused to negotiate a single comma of the laws amending the extension; they were public salaries, dependent on the administration. He didn't have any packaging to say that he didn't need any new investment of any kind, either in R & D or in anything. But we do not think the opposition groups that we did not raise that, because they were read-only, I remind you, we could not even put forward amendments. We could not even make amendments to the approach taken by this Government; therefore, do not trap us in solitary. And, Mr. Telleria, I already know that all governments – I've been a few years – always say to you, "No, it's that December 31 is the key date on which almost all budgets are implemented." Now, we would also like the humble Members of this House, Mr Azpiazu, who are in October of the 19th, to receive the closure of the 18th, I say, because we can know whether, indeed, on 31 December of the 18th, everything you say is going to happen on 31 December of the 19th, but that is that we cannot even, today, check that out. And by the way, you are talking about amendments, because you know that in the amendments and even in the two budgets that we agreed with this government most of the money in our amendments was to increase investment and many millions in R & D+i. Now, how has it been executed? Well, one day we may know, but for the time being what we have checked is that in the nine months that have passed, there are departures that have been unilaterally dropped by the Government, being extended, and others, Mrs Corcuera, as I teach you again, [Orri bat erakutsi du] I recognize Mr Arriola's infinite capacity in recent months, it's like the sprint. And I repeat that I believe that if we all agreed four or five years ago that an objective was viable, and four years later, of course we agree with the Government, it is already inviable, man, something should be reflected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u96	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 37; white, 0; abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u97	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Eukal. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u98	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "In the same manner as the parliamentary team of Podemos together proposes to control Eukadin's terms and to regulate the rules of work with regard to the coordination of the organization. Discipline and final resolution. It's yours, Mr. Hernandez, representing the Podemos team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u99	Good afternoon. The initiative and the final initiative negotiated with the EH Bildu group, to which I will begin by thanking for the willingness they have had to reach an agreement, not so, instead, the groups...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u100	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u101	... However, the groups supporting the Government, in which, in my view, there has been no willingness to attempt, even to explore the possibility of the agreement. This initiative – and above all the approach we bring to the debate – aims to improve the policies and actions of the public administration aimed at ensuring respect for the rights of workers in our Community. I believe that no one will argue – and no one will argue – that workers are assisted by certain rights, which are violated on a daily basis – I would say – despite the tools available to prevent it. From the most elementary right to life, that is, not to lose life as a result of the work done, to the fundamental right to strike, often violated, through the right to have decent working conditions, compliance with the collective agreements, as well as the right to health at work and others. One of the consequences that the last economic crisis left us, as a result of itself, but not only, also as a result of the policies that were launched during that period, is the precariousness of working conditions. A precariousness whose crystallization has not only to do with the new existing legislation, which we have so much criticized from the left, not only has to do with the types of contracts, it has not only to do with involuntary partiality, etc. In other words, it has to do not only with the formal conditions of jobs, but also with the real conditions, those that live day by day in jobs, material conditions in which you work in companies in our country. These are two issues to be addressed: formal conditions and real conditions, which are not always linked. This is, in our view, a matter on which the Basque Government can and must act with determination, as a matter of maximum responsibility for ensuring respect for the rights of workers. It is also clear, in our view, that the attitude of the Lehendakari himself towards the representatives of the workers does not invite optimism in asking this Government to be more forceful in its policies to guarantee these rights. I refer specifically to Mr Lehendakari's last known statements on the metal strike – on which I will have the opportunity to ask him tomorrow, as you yourself know, Mr Lehendakari. And that is why we think and that is why we are proposing this initiative. We believe that the Basque Government does not have a policy to ensure respect for labour rights. This does not mean that the Basque Government does nothing. I'd like to clarify this too. We don't say that. But we do say that there is no policy designed to ensure adequate respect for the rights of workers. The Labour Inspectorate does its job, as it cannot be otherwise. And the professionalism of their professionals is not at issue. I think you know that my parliamentary group has not questioned the professionalism of the labour inspectors. We have transferred this to them; we have also transferred it to the Labour Counsellor herself on some occasion. But the staff of inspectors and sub-inspectors is around 100 officials, and this is an argument that we have already used on more than one occasion with this debate and with others. We are talking about an absolutely insufficient dimension to meet a reality of hundreds of thousands of jobs and thousands of businesses in Euskadi. Increasing resources in the Labour Inspectorate is something that we defend and that we also include today in the last point of the transaction to which we have reached. I say this last one to clarify that our approach is to seek new reinforcement measures, so that the fight against abuses and violations of workers' rights is effective and comes to a reality that is now only arrived at superficially. It is not, however, an approach to replace the role to be played by the Labour Inspectorate, as some groups interpreted when we brought a very similar initiative to this earlier. On the contrary, it is an approach to seek measures that can reinforce the work of the Labour Inspectorate itself and also to commit our Administration, in an integral way, to the defence of the rights of workers. I hope that the groups that are not going to support our initiative – in particular the groups that support the government – will not re-enact this interpretation of our intentions, because I think it is an intentional or malicious interpretation; I think you know perfectly well what we are looking for with these proposals, whether or not you share them. I would also like to add, because I think it is important, that the initiative negotiated with the EH Bildu Group modulates our initial approach. It modulates it with the intention of seeking support. It modulates it with the intention of finding agreements; even so, the groups that support the Government do not agree with it. It is not serious that they do not agree with our approaches, nor is it serious that they do not agree with our modulated approaches. What seems to me to be something more serious is that no effort has been made to try to agree on anything. This Government, many times, speaks of the need, of the capacity, agree, and I believe that, on this occasion, of course, by the groups that support the Government, this has been null and void. I am even more concerned, however, not only that our initiative is not going to go ahead, but that, in front of it, the Government's position has been to say that, in terms of controlling working conditions, things are already doing very well. That is what it says and what follows from the amendment to the whole proposed by the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. A totally self-contained amendment to what is being done. An amendment which does not bring anything new, which does not propose anything new in this area. And what do we propose, in our initiative, that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi consider that we should not support or carry out what we propose? We propose, first of all, the development of a cooperation protocol between the different administrations on working conditions and compliance with labour law. To standardize and protocol the collaboration that different administrations can carry out, in collaboration with trade union centres, to ensure that labour rights are respected. This measure is not contrary to the law. This measure is in fact provided for in the law. And it would, in our view, be a more than useful tool in effectively addressing the defence of the rights of workers. And, at this point, I would like to ask you directly: does the Government believe that such coordination is not necessary? Or does the Government believe that such coordination already exists and is effective and that it does not need to be promoted or protocolized or to be returned to it? I would also like to ask how this measure replaces the work of the Labour Inspectorate. I think it is something that you argued or at least held in the previous debate, although it is true that I am going to answer myself to this question: in no way does it. On the contrary, it can be a source of information for the Inspectorate itself and it can undoubtedly be an expansion of the culture of prevention in which so much emphasis is placed. And that we share of course. Secondly, we propose that two interrelated issues be studied: direct collaboration, through a specific protocol, between the Labour Inspectorate and the Department of Safety and Security, and the study of the possibility of creating a specific unit in the Ertzaintza for the investigation of crimes against the rights of workers. We are convinced that these are decisive measures in the defence of those rights. The Ertzaintza has specific units for certain types of offences. Why not have a unit specialized in crimes against the rights of workers? Are these rights less important than other rights? Are crimes against the rights of workers less serious than other crimes? For us, of course not. And, therefore, it seems to us that it is a measure that, at the very least, should be taken into consideration. And that we believe that in our final proposal, modulated as I was saying, what we are asking is for this possibility to be studied. The Ertzaintza can act against pickets in strikes, and acts, and does not, however, act in defense of the right to strike, to set an example. And that is an indisputable reality. And is it not a crime to violate the right to strike? It is. And this is just an example of why this issue could be useful. The Ertzaintza and the Prosecutor's Office act and investigate when certain crimes against the rights of workers have been committed, and therefore a specialized unit in this type of crime would be useful and would enable action not only when they have been committed, but also to prevent and investigate them more effectively. We are absolutely convinced of this. Even so, we have modulated, as I said, our initial proposal. Because we've already marked our position...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u102	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u103	... in the previous debate, where we brought this initiative or a very similar initiative. And what we were trying to do now is try to get closer to positions and move forward. We have found ourselves, in fact, with a rather thick wall. We did not want to talk about our initiative. On the contrary, we are faced with an amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of the Basque Country, which, as I said, means that, in terms of control and respect for working conditions, respect for the rights of workers, things are being done very well. And, to me, this is what worries me most about everything, beyond the outcome of the vote. I'm so worried! I am very concerned, because I am absolutely convinced that today in Euskadi there are hundreds of workers who know that their labour rights have been violated, to a greater or lesser extent, and who know that they are not going to be able to do anything about it, for different reasons, one of them is the fear of dismissal. And I'm worried that the message that comes out of here today is that you don't worry, that this is absolutely controlled. I am concerned that those who are doing work above their grade today, with salaries in their grade, receive the message that this is perfectly controlled. I am concerned that those who today are lifting weights that cannot be lifted up in their cuts receive the message that there is no problem, that it is effectively acted upon. I am concerned about these issues. That's why I would have liked us to talk, talk and negotiate. And we have met with a wall, despite our modulated initiative. We believe that our objectives, intentions and proposals are serious and would be good. We are ready to speak with the parties that support the Government. But we don't think they've made any effort. And we are concerned that this is the reflection of this message that I have been sending to the lehendakari, not only before, but also in the plenary of general policy. We are concerned that this is the reflection of a government that does not look to the interests of the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u104	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of EH Collector, Madam Ottagon, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u105	Good afternoon, and thank you, Mr. President. The situation of the work world is pitiful. In recent years, though the financial situation has been fairly favourable, the conditions of work are not being improved in most of the workers' cases. And a great part of the laborer, especially a woman and a young man, is a terrible presumption, with all its consequences. And whoever denies that we are really faced with a serious situation is blind. All we have to do is look around to see that there are riots everywhere; The metal workers went out to strike, asking for a worthy contract, the workers of the old buildings on the strike, the workers of the cellars that remain unresolved, protest, and so forth. Like a bull, you have to take it by the horns. And it is necessary to begin with the measures which will be truly effective for us to end our predominance. And I don't mean that there's nothing to be done, as Mr. Hernandez said well. Of course it's done, but it's not enough. Or at least not enough. We received it yesterday, due to a request of information, a summary of the work Labour has done in the first semester of 2019: The campaign he brings forward, the field he's had, the initiative he's been doing, the contract he's reviewed-is a very neat and illuminating summary. I can see clearly that it's done, I'm not going to begin to go into that study now, but it's obvious that it's done. But it's not enough. At least, in our opinion, all that is done is not sufficient: All that is done will never be enough if we have workers who will go to work and never return home. Or all that is done will never be enough if we have workers working without a contract, or with a shameful contract. Others say that everything is done very well. When we discussed this similar proposition, as we are at present subject to dispute, the same correction which you now present to the state of government. Although what is proposed is quite different from that which has been proposed, as Mr. Hernández has well explained, that which is further defined should not be misunderstood, as it was the previous time. The answer to the sects that maintain government is always the same, that it is proposed to be anything; Follow, follow, and follow what we do well. Well, no. It's not enough. Work and Social Security Visions require you to continue to inspect and control conditions. I'm surprised that you're asking me to do that, because, of course, the Labour will have to try, because that's his function. But they cannot fulfil this function as well as the state requires, especially because there is a great middle course. It's true that we have the largest number of eye inspectors in Basque Autonomy in Erdi, but it's not enough. That's why we put the inspection into the corrections of the whole world, the inspectors and new inspectors that are necessary, just as we've asked for new inspectors and new inspectors. But we can't reinforce visuals as much as we want. In this, too, we are subject to the State of Spain. The state will decide what our needs are, and how to answer them. We have no right to make new inspectors and inspectors, as well as new inspectors or inspectors; we have no right to examine the functions which the inspection ought to have; we have no right to establish the minimum salary between our callings; we have no right to examine the locality of our communications, and to apply it to our reality. I also said the other day, and the third point of the correction of the whole of which we presented it is the reference to that of the jurisdiction. It is necessary, therefore, that the legislative and executive power should be in the hands of the Euscal Autonomy, as is agreed on the principles and principles of the establishment of the auto-gourage. So, since we have no longer any time to get the integrated measures that seem necessary to us, we prayed that the Spanish State should be able to negotiate at once all the rights of intercourse. And this we shall continue to demand whenever we have occasion to do, as we accuse other inconveniencies. But at the present moment we have what we have, and as we believe that all that is done with precity is not sufficient to control and to satisfy the conditions of labour, and that the measures taken for the execution of the discipline of labour are not enough, we have taken the side of the quest of new means. And so, in order to improve control of the compliment of work conditions and of the work-place, we had seen it well to define a protocol for the integrated co-ordination of all administrations, of course in conjunction with the workers' representatives, and so we introduced it into our correction. After we've spoken to Mr. Hernández, we've discussed it from another point of view, and after so many turns we've come to that half-way he's been talking about. We're not as clear as he has it, but we see the opportunity to improve the work we've done so far. We are for the sake of examining what is proposed on the way to improvement. So we wanted to ask you to do two exams. On the one hand, in order to promote the interaction of Labour and Borderism, in this case of two departments, he should consider working on a protocol for co-ordination between Work and Security Departments. Check it out! What this protocol should be looking for would be the compliment of the work rule and the prevention of the public charges as well as possible. And, on the other hand, let him examine the production of a specialized unit within the edge, which would serve to investigate the crimes committed against the workers. If it is possible to examine or to create this special unit, the Government ought to demand necessary reports, and those who have heard the matter should say whether it is possible or not, and why it is possible and why it is not. It is therefore required, in these two matters, to make an examination, a proper examination, which will say whether it is possible or not to ask the necessary reports, and it is not valid for me to refuse them. And even as Mr. Herndez has said, I am surprised, and I am very sorry that the rest of the party will not enter this middle course, and that, more than that, I have no attempt to enter this half-way. I'm terribly sorry because I really think what we're asking is perfectly acceptable. Who can't take a test to see whether it's appropriate or not? I do not see your opposition at all, and above all your will to harmony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u106	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u107	Yes, thank you, President. Today we are discussing an initiative by Elkarrekin We are talking about the control of working conditions and compliance with labour regulations, but it is identical to another initiative of his that was debated in this plenary on October 11, 2018, now a year ago. And it is identical because nothing has changed: neither the justification nor what was proposed for you in the proposed law. You say that you have modulated it, you have tried to modulate a film, referring to the elaboration of a study in the last second in the transaction, but the amendment and the initiative is exactly the same. And in the plenary session of 11 October 2018, Mr Hernández, you did not convince any of the groups in this House with your arguments, and the amendment to the whole tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, with the vote in favour of the People's Party, which did not propose an amendment to that initiative, because it was the only one that focused on the issue. And in turn, Mr Hernández concluded by saying that, if the initiative had to be refined, you were willing to speak, and today you have gone and again reproduced your initiative, with virtually nothing changing. What was in a paragraph puts it in two, then it's taken it to a little bit of a studio trying to do there a last-second waist game, but it's completely the same. And there most of the parliamentary groups have already given him the arguments why we did not see that initiative. What I don't understand is that the EH Bildu group told you then and argued that you couldn't do what you've now signed and, in this initiative, you just changed a little... say, well, let's say you do a study, but argued that the municipalities couldn't take on all that, etc., etc. And today he says yes, that you can, that you can study and see if you can do it. You, Mr Hernández, and Mrs Otamendi, you now, with the compromise amendment that you have signed, say that you give or defend that you give the municipalities of resources, so that they can collaborate in the control of working conditions. They recognize, even in the initiative, that, although there is no means in the municipalities for this, they take on more competence and, although they do not have training, they help the Labour Inspectorate to carry out these functions. And I ask you: does that improve the effectiveness of the actions that are taking place at this time? I don't think so. And also that they collaborate with local police and that they create specialized units in the Ertzaintza, and all this do so through coordination protocols. That is to say, you want to change competences, not by law, but through protocols of action and, of course, we were in disagreement the first time you brought this initiative here, and we are in disagreement today too. And it still does not understand that there must be respect for competences, which are assigned by law, as long as this transfer of competences is not agreed. According to you, I don't understand why we negotiate or agree on transfers of competences between different administrations, if we can sign a protocol where they transfer from one another to another, when we want to, because today we talk about working conditions, we talk about prevention of occupational risks, tomorrow they will talk about something else, and hala, they continue with the totum revolution, Do you honestly believe that the municipalities can assume these powers? I don't think so. Neither do they: the competences of the Labour Inspectorate, the Ertzaintza and the local police cannot be mixed. There can be no attempt to reinforce the work of the Labour Inspectorate with the work of other bodies of other administrations with different competences. And it confuses the facts that constitute an administrative offence and a criminal offence, whose investigation and punishment are completely different. In my speech on 11 October last year, I indicated that I believed in his good intention, but I expressed our total disagreement with the measures he proposed at the time and that he repeats exactly the same now. We have good intentions in our arguments, of course, and I also believe that they are the right ones and that we are not wrong, and those who are wrong, precisely, in this initiative are you. We know you haven't gotten involved with the Labour Inspectorate, but this is not the way. We agree that, in recent years, there has been an increase in the precariousness of working conditions, resulting from labour reforms, that of the year 2012 and later, on a daily basis, on hours worked in part-time contracts, etc., etc. We also agreed and agreed that monitoring should continue, but through the Labour Inspectorate, both in the area of work and in the area of occupational safety and health. It is necessary to continue to do so through the Labour Inspectorate, because it is the Labour Inspectorate which has these monitoring and control functions assigned to it in Law 23/2015 of the Organization of Labour Inspection and Social Security Act. And we told the Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and the People's Group on October 11, 2018. Only one thing has changed in the current proposal, which worries me even more. It then referred to the need for specific training on the control of working conditions, which is now being removed from the current initiative. And that, I don't know if it's because you no longer give importance to that training, or you can't answer the question that I asked you on October 11, that you couldn't answer me, in the reply round, about what you believed enough in the training that you had to give them, or how long it was enough for that local police and the Ertzaintza. And I also asked him if he knew how long it might take a labour inspector, normally, to approve oppositions, and I told him that from three to four years, which would have taken him to get a legislature. Mr Hernández, you did not know how to tell me, in the reply, how much time could be enough for that training, and of course, you have now removed the need for that training on your initiative, for not having to answer this question again that you do not know how to answer. You are pleased to have the Labour Inspectorate opponents who dedicate years of their lives and training to training themselves to be able to approve these oppositions, because you consider that, without training or with small training, any professional can exercise the functions and be able to look at issues of occupational risk prevention, in labour matters, in terms of working conditions, etc. What this shows is that you don't know how long these professionals spend training. But I believe that the local police and the autonomous police must continue to devote themselves to what they have to devote themselves to, which is to the control of crimes. And then, the necessary steps will be taken between the Labour Inspectorate, the General Treasury of Social Security, the Ertzaintza, the National Police and the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, as is still being done at this time. Then, on the other hand, he also wanted to indicate that each body must perform its functions well, the functions it has entrusted and for which they are formed, and, of course, then perform the corresponding actions. In order to increase the work of the Labour Inspectorate, it is not only necessary to increase the number of staff, which can achieve greater results with this; it can also be achieved with another measure, improving the use of the tools available to it. For this reason, campaigns were launched in the Basque Country, by the Department of Labour and Justice, through the Labour Inspectorate, in the control of law fraud and the irregular economy. In 2017, 12,540 contracts were reviewed and 1,970 were converted into fixed and full-time contracts; in 2018, 17,989 contracts, with 6,512 transformed into indefinite or full-time contracts, were added to 1,348 in the state campaign that began in August 2018; in total, 7,860. And in 2019, 16,932 contracts have been revised, and have become indefinite or full-time 5,430. In total, throughout the legislature, 47,461 have been revised and 15,270 have been converted, with which we are on the right track. I am not going to expand any further, but I must say that, of course, the so exponential increase in the results obtained in the work of the Labour Inspectorate has been achieved with a small increase in the number of staff, but this so exponential increase has been achieved because the crossing of data has been improved in order to detect possible breaches of contracts in companies. That is why we will again vote in favour of the amendment to the whole of the joint text tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, and I hope that, on this occasion, the Group of the European People's Party will once again support it, because it is the only one that is on the road, and not seeking solutions that are useless and, above all, that are contrary to the rules in force. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u108	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u109	Thank you, ma'am, at the head of the table, the president, the chief physician, all the afternoons. For EAJ, employment is the fundamental axis of political activity, so that we compromise the economic and social policies which are intended to produce and maintain more employment and better quality. Mr Hernández, it is essential for us that the Labour Administration deploys its full potential; I have told you on several occasions, a potential facilitator of the correct application of working conditions, through the exercise of the functions of inspectors and consultants, and showing the precise formulas of the correct compliance and development of labour regulations. It puts us in a position of initiative in the control of working conditions and compliance with labour regulations. Mr Hernandez, it is clear and you did not escape that we were going to tell you that this initiative is similar to another initiative that you presented last year. In fact, when I first read it – and it's true, huh? – it seemed to me that I was wrong; then I saw that I didn't, and when I recovered the previous one, I put them in parallel. I had the feeling that I was faced with a very popular pastime in other times, the 10 differences Today it says "one of the lines of work is..."; last year, it said "one of the lines of work could be...". I was very critical of the use of that condition, because it seemed to me that you lacked an attitude and that it materialized in that, that you should believe the solution that posed us. And I was like, "What do you want, let's go try something that could be?" I see you corrected this detail. Great! There may be 10 differences, but the drawing, the photo, is essentially the same, no matter how much now it comes to tell us. And from that initiative came an agreement. An agreement was reached based on our amendment as a whole, as Mrs Sánchez has said, and the government is fulfilling efficiently, effectively... That deal. Even so, although I would like to record this kind of recycling of parliamentary initiative, I understand that you are in your right to raise this issue again, and I deeply respect it. I'll have to defend him. And I want you to know that I put myself to it – as I told you – with all my interest and, from an initial analysis of the basic approaches of your initiative, I would say – as I told you in your day – that we have clear coincidences, without any doubt. We detect that concern in the citizenry; it is a shared concern. We share perception, a concern with two dimensions: quantitative and qualitative in the form of objective. We too have it: to increase employment, that is to say to reduce unemployment and, on the other hand, to improve the quality of employment. This initiative that he brings us today is more focused – as I told him in his day – on that second objective. We also share – I share – that it is the duty of the institutions to design solutions, deploying their full potential to improve these situations. We share the need for institutional impetus, the need – as you say in your justification – to put forward initiatives that lead to the substantial improvement of working conditions. We are clear about this and, in this regard, we have – or have gathered in our electoral programme – 178 commitments. 56 of them – more than 30%– correspond to this general concern. Of these, six concrete commitments in the area of today's debate. Six concrete commitments in this area of debate, and to be deployed in 11 initiatives and 48 specific actions. Actions that are all underway and that are reflected in the government program, as it could not otherwise be, in a firm commitment to work together with social actors to improve working conditions. In this regard, the Government understands that the Labour Inspectorate is a fundamental tool for ensuring quality and compliance with labour legislation and is committed to strengthening it. As you know, we have completely amended this non-law proposal – which has not surprised you with our amendment – and we have done so mainly for two reasons: First, for legal reasons, Law 23/2015. Secondly, for a conceptual reason and which for me is much more important, and is that, beyond the normative reason, beyond being collected in a law, I have always thought that law, laws, regulations... They are tools at the service of society, and the public administration has an obligation to optimise the use of these tools to respond to the needs and problems facing a society. And I believe that an advanced rule of law, which wants to have that name, needs to make systematic progress in the use of tools that are increasingly appropriate, more adapted to the object that they pursue, more precise and that give rise to specialization. They must pursue objectives of continuous improvement in efficiency and efficiency. I, Mr Hernández, believe you are still unaware of the real impact your proposal would have. And he says, "No, no. If it's just studying." He tells us and has written it in the text they have sex: it's just studying, but then when he puts himself here to say examples, I see him not only studying; I see he's already putting it in motion, at least, in his mind. It proposes to increase the functions of police bodies to areas for which they are not specialized, rather than to enhance the collaboration between public servants from rationality. Specialization. And in the sixth paragraph of his justification, he also makes a reference to comparative law. It says: "In other countries in our environment"; to me, sincerely, I would like, if you could, to expand on this question: What regulatory schemes are you referring to in this relationship between administrative inflation versus I would like to develop this concept of comparative law; I'm very interested, it's that I don't know it, I don't know those schemes, I don't know where they happen. Mr Hernandez, and I ask him: Are you aware of the reality of local police in Euskadi, especially in the smaller municipalities – I also asked you earlier – where existing resources exhaust their possibilities in fulfilling their own competencies, two people, municipal police, in many municipalities in our country? In addition to all the above, I am very concerned that I will overlook the very positive results, which are the result of the systematic use by this Government of the increasingly sophisticated tools to which I referred earlier. I'm worried, I'm worried that you minimize that. Mrs Sánchez has spoken of them: almost 50,000 contracts reviewed in less than three years. That's a lot of work! That is why, Mr Hernández, your four-point proposal has been amended in its entirety, proposing, on the one hand, that, through the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, which is the sole body responsible for monitoring control and working conditions, the Basque Government continue to develop these intensive campaigns, continue to update these precise tools, strengthening labour inspection services. I would say to you: you say that you are making a lot of progress; I don't know, just like this, you should comment on the progress, with Mr. Casanova, the turtle and all that. I see, rather, a short advance in these approaches which we are now making in the text, in the text we have had, with regard to last year. Because in the original text, zero progress, right? We, with this approach that really makes us, can only have one position: to maintain our amendment, and we will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u110	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The next round of the group that hasn't issued any correction, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u111	Thank you, Madam President; good afternoon, everyone. Well, I am inevitably going to repeat myself, and I am going to repeat myself for several reasons: firstly, because intervening last in the end entails this, that many of the issues that I am going to discuss here have already been made manifest by other speakers. And I'm going to repeat myself, Mr. Hernández, because it's like you're in a deja vu. Because a year ago, almost a year ago, a proposition was presented that is almost the same. I don't mean to frivolize, but just like El Almendro. The justification of the proposition, they have told you, is that it is mimetic. If one compares, some paragraphs are literal, changed the same order, but there are others that are literal, exactly the same. And understand me: I have no problem in re-discussing every time I need to comply with labour law and put on the table measures to end labour sinestrality. But, inevitably, in the face of an equal initiative, because on the part of this group, we have to point out the same thing. And the truth is that, given the time of the afternoon that it is, I could say: I refer to what I said, to what is written in the session log a year ago, and it's already... But, between what I like to talk about and which seems to me to be a lack of respect not to intervene in this initiative, especially a lack of respect for the proposer, for I am going to expose something, but it will allow me to repeat myself in many of the issues. In the objective that you propose with this initiative, we agree, but, not only the People's Group, I believe that we agree with all the groups, which, as I said, is to put all the means in place to fight against job insecurity, against occupational disaster, and have been put on the table on many occasions and have been debated on many occasions in this House, and many initiatives have also been agreed on this; because, as I say, the will is common to all groups. We agree with what has been said in the initiative and with what you have said here today about that concern, as I say to you, for work in conditions of non-precariousness and for occupational sinestrality. I said it then, and I will repeat it now: of course there is scope for improvement, of course there is scope for improvement, because there is not a single occupational accident, that accidents cannot be conspicuous to the workplace and that failure to comply with labour regulations and working conditions cannot be allowed. As I say, there is scope for improvement, and I... you also know me and you have often seen me taunt you, talking colloquially, to the government, but you also have to say that there may be more to be done but that it is true that many things are done. And I'm sure you, who are very concerned about these issues, have seen these performances from the first half of 2019, which are doing a lot of things, a lot of things. What is the need to implement the measures? Surely, but we must also recognize that progress is being made and that the means are being put in place to improve – well, then – in the Labour Inspectorate and in compliance, as well. It's just that you have to recognize it. All of us, as I repeat, agree with that objective: to promote quality jobs, where security measures are required, to denounce from all institutions and from all areas the lack of work, to put all means in place to curb this occupational disaster... That is why we believe it is necessary – and we have agreed on many occasions – to promote and promote preventive measures, and to monitor and monitor compliance. But how does that happen? That's where we disagree. Because you, although in your original initiative you have divided it and in the amendment you have given it another form, the objective underlying the fund is the same as it was a year ago. It's the same as a year ago, and it's how the inspection is carried out. Because you have put the formula of coordination protocols, but that coordination exists. That coordination exists! And basically, what you want, what lies behind your initiative, you clearly put it in justification, and you say that it is: to assign police officers to carry out surveillance tasks in terms of conditions and compliance with labour regulations. That is the objective of the initiative. As much as they have developed it at different points and given it the form of collaboration, which, as I say, exists because it must exist, what they basically want is that the inspection of compliance with labour regulations does not fall exclusively on the Labour Inspectorate, but that there are police, that is, Ertzaintza, and even local police, doing this work. And we have said this on many occasions, and here there was an initiative two years ago, and we support it, to strengthen the workforce and the material means of the Labour Inspectorate, and to increase the number of inspectors and sub-inspectors, and it is probably necessary to further strengthen it. Surely, yes. But, even if that staff should be increased, we reiterate what we said a year ago: the inspection work must be carried out by the labour inspectors, not by the Ertzaintza or the local police. And for several reasons. And one of them, in the first place, the creation of a specialized unit in Ertzaintza, apart from the complexities to which I shall then refer, is an increase in the police force. Are all the groups who are here and who are going to support or who have signed that amendment agree that the Ertzaintza staff will increase, when they are continually saying that there are too many police officers in Euskadi, many? Not only from other bodies, but also from Ertzaintza. But it is also that they have been told here, and I also told them: labour inspection requires specialisation, which is not a simple task, nor is it a quick task. Covering all the extensive and complex labour regulations takes a long time. A long time. But it requires so much that, even in labour offences, the Office of the Prosecutor, in many cases, refers, in its memoirs, to the complexity of labour offences, and requires the specialization of prosecutors, who are, of course, persons with parallel training, but not as specialized as that of labour inspectors, and requires further specialization. And you claim that this specialization that requires the Prosecutor's Office to have it, because I don't know if with a course I don't know how many, the Ertzaintza and the local police. But it's that, besides, regardless of complexity and specialization, I told you, and you said to me, well, that we couldn't go in and make discussions between administrative and criminal illegals. But you just have to do it. It is necessary to do so, Mr Hernández, because it is not the same; it is not the same administrative unlawful as criminal unlawful. Not at all. When we are talking about non-compliance with working conditions, these are administrative illegals, whose persecution and investigation are the responsibility of the labour inspectors. And when we are talking about breaches and criminal offences, that is what belongs to Ertzaintza as judicial police, because it falls within the judicial sphere. Because one thing is to pursue job insecurity, work sinisterity, non-compliance with labour regulations... and another, for example, the persecution of labour exploitation, which would involve the commission of an offence of workers' rights, which are set out in book 2, title 15, articles 311-318. And, of course, when these criminal conducts occur, for justice will have to intervene there, and as I say to you, Ertzaintza as a police officer. But, of course, not to control compliance with working conditions. I told you at that time, and I'm telling you again now: do you imagine Ertzaintza or the local police reviewing your income statement or mine, to see if we've complied with tax legislation? No, no, Or corporate tax returns? No, no, There is a specific body, which is that of the Finance Inspectors, which is responsible for these matters. And when there are fiscal offences, then justice and, as I say, Ertzaintza as judicial police can enter. Because, you have to distinguish between the tax inspectors, the tax agents, the labour inspectors... Everyone has a field of action. And there is no need for protocols, because there are already joint actions. There are already joint performances... When, in an inspection of a labour inspector, redundancy is worth it, or in a tax inspection, criminal actions are involved, a complaint is filed immediately and it is brought to another order of action. But, as I say to you, that we all have to put meat in the roaster and that we all have to act to end job insecurity and to ensure compliance with labour legislation does not mean that everyone has to do everything, but that each of the institutional bodies has to do what they are specialized in and what they are legally legitimized for. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u112	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answers, together Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u113	Good. I believe that you, especially Mrs Sánchez, Mr Aiartza and also Mrs Llanos, insist on an issue on which I do not agree, and I believe that our initiative does not say that: we are not proposing to change anyone's competences. And I would like to see the texts followed, both from the original initiative and from the transaction reached with EH Bildu, in order to know where we are proposing that certain institutions assume competences that they do not have: "coordination between administrations in order to be able to collaborate with the Labour Inspectorate", both in the original initiative and in the transaction. At what point is there a change of competences here, is it now possible to collaborate with the Labour Inspectorate to enter its competences? Doesn't anyone cooperate with the Labour Inspectorate? Is it that, when you are currently cooperating with the Labour Inspectorate, which you yourself have said is cooperating, you are taking over your competences? No, no, So, what are we proposing? A protocol, yes, to sort this out, because we think that this way it's going to be more effective, it's going to be more efficient... And this is one of the things that has changed with the initiative I brought a year ago, which is true that in the background it is the same initiative, of course, and I insist on it. But it is also true that, as I said on that occasion, we came with it fine-tuned, and we did not talk about the municipal police either in the original initiative we presented on this occasion or in the transaction with EH Bildu, which, moreover, had serious problems with this issue. No, Mr. Aiartza, you talk about municipalities; yes, you talk about the municipalities collaborating with the Labour Inspectorate and that this is done through that protocol, of course you do... Tell me where this invades the competences of the Labour Inspectorate and tell me in which part of this text it says that the municipal police of a given municipality will do the work of Labour Inspectorate. This is not real: this is being invented by you; this does not put it in the initiative, nor in the original or in the transaction. And you yourselves are saying that you are currently collaborating with the Labour Inspectorate, and what we are saying here is that this is protocolized, because we think that that will make that collaboration more effective. For me, this is very clear, and you can insist that my hidden intentions are to joo the labour inspectors and replace their powers. No, that's not it! And on Ertzaintza, I think that, in the initiative we have presented this time, the difference then with the transaction is that it should be studied, and in the original initiative we were talking about creating that unity. The unit is to investigate the crimes; we fine-tuned, to investigate the crimes... In fact, the Ertzaintza, as I know, already investigates crimes against the rights of the workers, and as I have said before, does investigate, and, that is one of its tasks, crimes against the rights of the workers; it can be shared or not, but it cannot be presented as if something is being proposed that is unrealistic or that violates the law: why could there not be a specialized unit in this type of crime? There are specialized units for other crimes, why not for this one? Crimes against the rights of workers are a very important crime, why not? And finally, we were only asking, as Mrs Otamendi said, to study: not even you are willing to talk about this issue. And I think I did answer you, Mrs Sánchez, or I answer you again today – I have no problem at all –: I am not the one who is going to determine the training that may be given, for example, to the agents who are in that specialized unit. I am not the one who will determine the training that officials from different administrations should have who will collaborate, through their daily work, with the Labour Inspectorate. It is precisely in these protocols that the Labour Inspectorate will have to play the key role in defining the appropriate training. Is it that, when a unit of the Ertzaintza is created to investigate crimes against the environment, it is not determined what training these agents have to have? I say you'll study what specific training you must have, won't you? I think it is clear that our initiative is good; I think it is clear that there is no intention of changing competences. I believe that our only objective, beyond the objective they can say they share, is to improve working conditions and to combat labour exploitation... the objective is clear: to improve coordination and collaboration between the different institutions we have. And that's no competitive change. I believe that this is quite clear and that there is no argument for saying that what I am saying is a competitive invasion of the Labour Inspectorate. If we stick to the proposed text, both in the original initiative and in the final transaction, there is nothing to say that we propose to invade the competences of the Labour Inspectorate. Absolutely nothing. Another thing is that you believe that I have hidden interests, so in doing this, which is very legitimate. I can tell you no; I won't convince you, and neither can you convince me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u114	Finish up, Mr. Hernandez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u115	But if we stick to the text, there is absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u116	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Gather the Representative of the EH Group, Othart, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u117	I am more sorry now that I hear all that I hear. One simple question: Is not this parliament's function of speaking among us, examining proposals, and trying to make an effort in the greatest possible harmony, for the good of the people? That's all... That's what I did: You've never even mentioned what we're discussing or talking to her, considering her, considering her, and finally discussing what we're planning on her in this half-way proposal. No one ever mentioned it! And that's what you have to vote for now. What's the problem with your half-way party for what you're proposing? What's your problem asking you to do a test? Please, I'd like to answer that question. And, Mrs. Sánchez, please, it seems you haven't even read the media proposal. In that text, councils don't even mention them. The local police don't even mention it because I've tried so hard about it, and finally, after I've talked to Mr. Hernández, because I've managed to get him out of this proposition. What we all had to do: Speak, and come to the agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u118	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u119	Look, Mrs Otamendi, we talk and try to dialogue and we strive to reach agreements when we think it is worth trying to reach an agreement. But, in this initiative, we do not consider it on October 11, 2018 nor do we consider it today, October 10, 2019, that we have to make any effort to have an agreement, because we do not consider this initiative to be correct and we have our perfect right to think that. In this initiative, it is not a question of whether or not a policy has been made, but of who had and who had the competence to do so, and who should continue to carry out these functions, in order to achieve the greatest effectiveness in the actions carried out by the professionals concerned. And, in my speech, I have explained to you all the arguments that we believe are sufficient to reject the initiative that is being presented today. I have read your compromise amendment; they have tried, in order to reach an agreement, to soften something or change something, as I told you, to make a waist turn in the last second, to see if it could be reached... Because, of course, it is not understood that with an initiative absolutely identical to today's, which you defended on 11 October, in which you did not support that initiative, and today you have made a turn with the same initiative, and you have reached a compromise amendment. And you've tried to justify that waist swing you've done, as you could. But the reality is that it is the same initiative as then, and although they are now talking about a study, we do not consider that the actions to control working conditions and compliance with labour regulations should be carried out in this way, but rather that the one that has to do it is the one that is doing it now, which is the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. And by the way, see if I've read your compromise amendment that I'm going to correct one thing you've put in point four. Because you talk about subinspectors or subinspectors of work, and that doesn't exist. There are subinspectors of employment and subinspectors of occupational safety and health, but there are no subinspectors or subinspectors of work. So let me see if I can read what the compromise amendment says, which should have been corrected, because it does not exist. We do not agree with her; that is why I said that we are going to defend the amendment to the whole of the day that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party are presenting, because it is the only one that focuses on the issue where it has to focus. We have already talked, within it, about the need to continue to increase and strengthen the Labour Inspectorate with more human resources, but I have also told you, in my first intervention, that this is not the only thing that is sufficient to achieve better results, and we have shown it with the data I told you in my first intervention. Also, making much better use of the tools available and better cross-referencing the data, an exponentially far greater result has been achieved than has been achieved in previous years. And I've told you the figures: almost 50,000 revised contracts, and almost 16,000 conversions into indefinite or full-time contracts. The data sings for themselves. And on the other hand, they say: well, let there be a study, but it is that we believe – Mr Hernandez – that these actions have to be carried out by the local police or by the Ertzaintza. And he tells me: in the event of a strike, it would be important for them to act. Man, in the event of a strike, I imagine you want to see if there are replacements or not for workers on strike. But that's what the Labour Inspectorate already does. And besides, it is that the on-call inspector enters him, because he has priority, and he has to go the one who is on-call that day and goes immediately and automatically and does so. And if the replacements of workers on strike are checked, they perform the corresponding actions. So what more would the Ertzaintza do, a person or a professional who does not have the presumption of certainty and is not worth anything later on in the performance of the Labour Inspectorate? Is that what you want? Well, that's efficiency in controlling the replacements of strikers! What an efficiency! We don't consider it that way. It must continue to be done by the professional who has the competences assigned to it. Moreover, it does so quite effectively, and it is the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate. And, in the field of safety and health at work, it will be the sub-inspectors of occupational safety and health or the sub-inspectors of employment – I repeat – not those of work, which by the way do not exist... That is why we believe that we have to defend our amendment to the whole, which we are presenting, and I hope, for the intervention that Mrs Llanos has had, that it is once again supported and our initiative comes out, exactly as it came out on 11 October 2018. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u120	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u121	Thank you, ma'am. I wasn't really going out; those I told you I wasn't going out, I'm sorry... It makes me doubt, Mr Hernández; it makes me doubt. And he caught me without glasses, too. Grabbing my text, grabbing my text, I said. It makes me doubt... A clarification. And he said to me, "I say municipalities, I say municipalities." Man, I'm worried a lot more now. Because I thought... I'm reading the 18th: "I say municipalities, I say municipalities; I don't say cops." Have you read it to him now? Point four of its text: "Let local police act in the area of monitoring compliance with labour regulations and prevention...". It doesn't say town halls alone; it says local cops. It says local cops. Local cops... Isn't that your text? In yours, what I was saying. After this clarification, I have to make a confession: I am a complacent. That's it, you don't have to turn around anymore: I'm a complacent; I'm a complacent, don't turn around anymore. Don't use it as... There you go. I am. I believe these things... Results, results, results... But it bothers me one thing, that you throw it to the government; but behind those 50,000 revised contracts, which is a titanic job, there are a lot of people: the Inspection. Recognize it; don't recognize it, no. He says, "You're self-pitying." No, it's 50,000 contracts reviewed in less than three years. He says, "You make no effort, no will." Man, I'm gonna admit that I'm trying; I'm really trying, but don't put the carrot so far away. It is that I try with all my strength, and I have told you: it is that in this we agree; but, when you start making these texts, like that of the local police, it makes it tremendously difficult for me. I'll keep trying... Three by three, Mrs Otamendi: there was a third point in your amendment to the whole that has disappeared and I am sorry, and in your text that has been transacted includes a third point as well; then, I am drawn to the attention, in line with what Mrs Llanos said, that in the last year that you tabled partial amendments to the budget, the fourth part of your partial amendments were reduction in terms of items of Ertzaintza, and now we are being asked here to create a unit specialized in Ertzaintza... Ah, study, ah, okay; ah, study: we will have to study, then, also what we do with the budget. Finally, I would like to thank you, Mrs Llanos, for your support of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u122	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Mrs. Llanos from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u123	With your permission, Madam President, from the seat. The self-complacent, don't worry, Mr Hernández, the PNV-Socialist Party government and self-complacency is something that usually goes consubstantially together. I was surprised by one thing, Mr Aiartza, which, although you have made reference to it, but you have not said, something that must also mark a milestone in the calendar: "If we had the competition in Euskadi". The first time he makes an intervention and does not claim a competition; but, finally... Look, Mr. Hernández, that'll be it [Barreak] Mr Hernández, both on his original initiative, on the proposal side, and now, many issues remain ambiguous. Normally, when a question becomes ambiguous, it has to be interpreted. To interpret the proposed part, one where you have to go is to justification, and in justification that ambiguity is clear, it is clear what the aim of your initiative is. And the aim of his initiative is, in the first point and of the compromise amendment, an adequate control of the conditions, a coordination for an adequate control. What does that mean? That it's not going well now, that it has to be done differently. How do you do that? Everybody do everything. To promote collaboration between the Labour Inspectorate and the Ertzaintza in order to monitor compliance. Who has to control it? One or the other? As it turns out ambiguous, where is one going? To justification. What is derived from their justification? That both of you have to do it. The unit thing? Well, study. We have no doubt to study, because the increase of the police, paraphrasing my partner, you the "a lot of police, little fun" take it to all areas. And finally, the last point – to strengthen the work of the Inspection – is that we have already approved it under other conditions, even with our vote. It was approved here and has been strengthened, and I have already told you that, if necessary, it will continue to be strengthened, but, for that reason, this initiative was not necessary, because its object was not this; its object is that the Ertzaintza – before the local police, already after the transaction, does not take care of the monitoring of working conditions. And we do not agree with that, and that is why we are going to vote against the compromise amendment and in favour of the amendment of all the groups supporting the Government. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u124	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; the 70s, 28; the opponents are 42; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u125	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. We'll next vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociaists of Eukalia. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the conferences, 69; 70; the supporters of the 10th, 42; the contrary, 11. white, 0; abstations, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-10-10.u126	So the full correction has been accepted. I'll read you an institutional statement next. An institutional expression, concerning the bombing and invasion of Turkey against the north of Syria: "Thurska begins to invade Rajova, the region of Syria in Northern Syria, which, endeavouring to invade the land and attack the airy enemy, has killed and wounded certain civilians. Before this military operation of Turkey, the curds have made no provocations or attacks in this country. "To put an end to the war in Syria, the greatest threat is to make another military intervention, the Turkish government re-entering the north of Syria and the east side is a very dangerous step, and it is a very bad step, for the people of the north of Syria sacrificed thousands of friends and kept their freedom by fighting against the IIS. They have violence and disorder before them again. "It is not only those who are in great danger, but also those Arabs, Turks, Assyrians, Armenians, and Macedonians who dwell in this region. "We call on the European Union to declare that a sustainable solution to the Syrian conflict cannot be achieved militarily. "Also, we demand that Turkey cease unilateral military action, and stress that renewed armed hostilities in the north-east will further weaken the stability of the entire region, exacerbate the suffering of civilians and cause further displacement. "We ask the Union organization to take the initiative to take care of this situation, for this is a violation of international rights and an immediate danger against the inhabitants of the North of Syria." Just because we've exhausted the whole meeting's list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-five.
