ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u0	Good morning, everyone. Preceding theme: "As to the other proposition, "The drawings of an entire 31-frozen meeting of October, following the 92.1 article of the ruler, as well as to the protection of the Parlamentary Podemos and together of the sea environment of Ulia and Jaequiz." It was a draw to collect EH, and to vote the original text of the same proposal as the Podemos groups did together. So, following the 92.1 article of the ruler, we'll make the vote again. So we can vote. Get in there. The other way. [[Berber]] Hold on a second. Was he in a bad way? Wait, wait. Yeah, hold on a second. [[Berber]] You just finished the ticket and put it in it a second later. Machines... No, no, come on in. It's just... No, he'll bring the paper now. He'll bring the paper now. But I repeated the vote again on the previous round, and the congressman went wrong. So, when it's in training, what the machine says. I'll order the report. Yeah, he was in it, but he was in it badly. It's a signal he's in trouble when he's doing it. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u1	We've entered it three times, we've taken it off three times, and we've entered it three times. And it wasn't working.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u2	Well, we'll get the report now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u3	And then, at last, when there was a second left, he's been gone. But he wasn't on the third time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u4	Look, when he does, it's a sign he didn't fit. Because you didn't get it down. Well, the machine will say. The machine will tell! I repeated the vote on the other hand, the side that won, because we were in front of a picture, we were in front of a draw, and I didn't, because it made a mistake. So, when it's in training... In the rest, it is all the same to the end which is the will. But when it's in training, we'll ask the machine what happened. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u5	What? You don't have the word. [[Berber]] I don't care. The machine will tell us how it was. No, the machine will say how it was. Aber, aber. But the machine will say, won't it? Or what? Aber, don't talk to them all at once, please. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u6	Look, I said it on the front round, I repeated a vote. "What about the ticket? "What do you mean?" I asked. They said it was all very well, and they said: "No, no, he's got it right." And he was wrong about it. So I said, and I said at table, I made up my mind: From now on, when it's drawn and there's doubt, we'll ask the machine what's been going on, because if it's given a good or bad vote, then there's no time to turn around. It's up there, isn't it? Do we understand? All right, all right, then, if we understand, all right. They'll bring the report right away, and if you don't want to wait, the draw is cancelled. Now he'll tell us what happened. [[Berber]] Well, since it's equality, it's cancelled. What we're going to vote next is the Euez Abertist and the global correction introduced by the Basque Socialists together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 36; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u7	So the integer correction has been cancelled. First point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of the Casanova Alonso EH Collecting Group, about the sizes of the telecommencial network that had been built on public money. Discipline and final resolution. The proposer's turn. Mr. Casanova, your word is to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u8	Yes, good morning, everyone. I'd like to start by taking leave of this intervention of my day to the employees of GSS Line Solutions who are with us today. The company GSS Line Solutions carried out, subcontracted, a service for the company Euskaltel, specifically a telemarketing service In this company mainly women work and, as in most of the sector, precariousness and low wages abound. This company is under the state telemarketing agreement However, this preference does not allow them to maintain acquired rights and, therefore, they would start from scratch, without antiquity, without holidays, without extras, without anything, turning them into eternal fellows, into eternal precarious ones. And for this reason, these workers today ask us to fight for territorial agreements, to effectively protect rights, and to ask companies like Euskaltel to include sub-contracting clauses in the conditions of subcontracting that prevent situations like yours from being repeated. As long as your legitimate struggle in defense of your jobs lasts, you can count on our help and solidarity. This is the main example of the pregulance that has been established in the Basque Company. What we're asking here is to start repairing this situation, and we'd start repairing this situation if we really started changing the internal areas now in the Basque Company. The detonator of the inquiry and the subsequent motion on Euskaltel – which is not a new topic but does arise in new terms in recent times – were statements by Zegona's advisor-delegate on a board of investors in the United Kingdom, in which he put on the table the possibility of putting on the market the fiber optic network of Euskaltel. This isn't like the movie The Ghost Threat "There is a large volume of capital currently behind infrastructure investors who are now looking at telecommunications. Euskaltel's network is a top-quality network and will be very attractive in terms of valuation, when there is a large volume of capital in funds that is looking at this type of network. I am sure that the advice of Euskaltel and the leaders of Euskaltel, when looking at value creation formulas over the next few years, will be aware of this possibility." Loud and clear. And we have always accused zero of many things, but it has not been between these things that are not clear. He told us plainly that Eamon O'Hare, the CEO of Zagon, the boss of Zagone, and consequently the person who has the power of Basques, is in the book of the optical fibre of the Basques. In June, the Basque Country has already advanced from this arril, but it is already official by these expressions. It's an officer, of course, not a reality. And in order that this possibility may not become reality, we are here today discussing this proposition. In 1992, Euskalnet was created. 'Eunk' was a company that created his optical fiber network to open up. Then the net would be served by the Basque Company, when Euscalel is created in 1995, and it's the main user of that network. When Euskaltel was set up in 1995 it was owned by 68 % of the boxes, and 7.5% of the shares were owned by the Basque Government, which also gave way to the use of the fibre optics network that it had created in previous years. For years Euskaltel has been active as a company that, beyond its strictly commercial task, generates strong empathy with the environment and becomes a country company through its own commercial practice and other activities such as, for example, the famous cycling team, also very close advertising campaigns and a commitment to the country, to the Basque and to our traditions expressed over and over again. This trajectory begins to change from the year 2012, when in August of that year it was decided by the Basque Government to sell to Euskaltel the fiber optic network and also to sell its shares to enable the entry of new capital into the Euskaltel shareholdership. This company, which had been mostly public and cashier, since 2012, is basically controlled by two speculative investment funds. These funds put in place a whole series of mechanisms for generating short-term value at the cost of whatever it was; at the cost of outsourcing the workforce, which is reduced by more than 30%, at the cost of dissolving the cycling equipment, at the cost of encouraging sub-contracts under worse conditions, of tightening up the network of distributors, etc., etc. It is three years of pure neoliberalism within Euskaltel, culminating in the company's market release in 2015. These two vulture funds share profits of more than EUR 500 million simply in surplus value. They went in paying 150 million, sold for more than 600. And, in case this were short, they asked for a 200 million credit, which they shared religiously with Kutxabank: 100 million for you, 100 million for me. It should be remembered that when the government privatizes the fiber optic network, it is sold to Euskaltel to make it more attractive to these funds and it also privatizes its actions, we are told about a company in danger. It was a company that had been sentenced to pay 220 million euros to Orange for a disagreement regarding the use of the network of this French company and, in the end, that 220 million sentence was put on the table as an inescapable reason to face this privatisation process. In 2012, 220 million could jeopardize Euskaltel's future. In 2015 there were not only millions left, but a loan of 200 million is requested to be distributed in the form of a dividend. This is the scam that Basque society has been given by the spats of these funds. But the thing, as we all know, goes on. Once the company is on the market, it initiates a series of acquisitions from other companies in the cantabrian cornice, specifically the company R Cable de Galicia and the company Telecable de Asturias. In this second company there was Zegona, whom we have often called the Troia Horse. When the cable is bought, zero pays 200 million euros, plus 15% of the Basques, and that really opens Pandora's box. Once Zegona entered the shareholdership with 15 % and had 200 million to invest, Zegona being an investment fund whose only activity was, first, to hold a stake in Telecable and, then, within Euskaltel, it was inevitable that Zegona would try to expand its stake, as it was, until it became in April 2019 the majority shareholder of Euskaltel, controlling 21 %, in which it counted on the invaluable collaboration of Kutxabank, which, while Zegona increased its stake, was getting rid of shares until it remained only 19 %. So from the apérité, 2019, Zegona is the one who has the most share and also Zonea activates a leadership position. It's not just the one stockholder that has most shares, but the only one with which it represents a project, and it gets a connection with other stockholders to put his desires in action and activate them: There are deep changes from the management, a new director is on board and a new president has even been introduced to a new president. The election of the new CEO of Euskaltel, imposed by Zegona, José Miguel García Fernández, shows us the intentions of this fund, which are, no more or less, to carry out a Jazztel two operation. This person, José Miguel García, was the former president of Jazztel, a company that managed to fatten enough to give a ball, sell it to another major company and, by disappearing the company, make its owners rich. That's what Zegona is trying to do in Euskaltel and for that he needs to expand the company in the state, to gain that attraction and to pay that value. The option of selling fibre optics would be, in that plan, a possibility to increase the capital with which to finance such expansion, always in the interest of the final objective of the sale and the ball. We say, on the other hand, that it can't be allowed. It can't be allowed, because the Basque Country needs a company like Euscalel and it needs to be related to the purposes of this country, we need it from the economic, social, cultured point of view. The technology in the world that comes to us will take a lot of importance, but it will already be more in the future, and therefore industry will be looking at 4.0, looking at the revolution of 5G, looking at the Internet of things, and all the rest of the world, it is indispensable to be here, to be here, a company engaged with the country in this sector. We need Euskaltel to be a country company again, with technological leadership and technological traction on all the productive sectors of this country. We need a committed company and we don't need a company that's speculators' grass. This is the only guarantee of a single way: the balances which are now in the domain of the enterprise are reorganized, and these balances are changed. As has been said, zero is already in command, and others are in favour of Zneca. We believe that it is necessary to change this, and the only means of changing it is that a strong entry is derived from the public institutions of the Basques, and in this case also the Arkbanks must be his companion, and we propose that the bank-fundations also contribute their contributions. Around these three axes, we propose above these three legs to change the internal areas of the Euskaltel today, and to change in the interests of this country. Today it's not even guaranteed to lock 25 percent. To make the main decisions, according to the Basque State, it's necessary. Most of 75%. So 25% of the most important measures that can be fatal to us can be blocked: the change of the company's residence and the like decisions. Even that percentage isn't guaranteed anymore. The trunk contains 19% of the rights that this 19% does not use in the Basque defence of this country in order to actually plan a policy in the defence of this country. So what we're proposing is that the funk and banking together with the Arkbanks, the arrival of the majority, the restoration of control, because Zegota hasn't come to make a report of anything good, and that the Euscalel should never be allowed to be put back in the car, in the line we've just mentioned before: a company in euscal, a company engaged in the Basque territory. We have put forward a motion that seeks to change the balance within the board of Euskaltel in order to re-place this company in the lane from which it should never have left, the path of being a company committed to the country, to its productive fabric and to its society. It seems that this proposal is not going to gather sufficient support. However, we have seen in the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government a certain new tone. In principle, this amendment has all the ingredients that the opposition are putting behind us, because it does not give time, does not adopt concrete commitments and does not speak of monetary amounts. However, from our group, we want to interpret it as a change in the discourse of the Basque Government or at least of the parties that support the Basque Government. This amendment calls on us to urge the Basque Government to analyse in depth the purchase of Euskaltel shares in order to ensure the company's roots and to try to avoid the sale of the Euskaltel communications network as far as possible. We are going to keep our proposal, we are going to vote in favour of it. But also, in the event that it is not adopted, we would vote in favour of this amendment, because we understand, as I said earlier, that it is a magnet, at least a principle of change in speech, which leaves the door open for the first time to an investment within Euskaltel and to a policy change, a policy that has so far been passive, resignation and fencing that nothing can be done; a recognition that there is at least one subject to be analysed and, therefore, if it has to be analysed, it is because there is one possibility. We understand that from that analysis the only logical conclusion, if we really want to keep the company rooted in the country, is to make the purchase decision that we are proposing today. If we do not approve today the express proposal made by EH Bildu, let us hope that, as a result of this reflection by the Basque Government, in the future the necessary investment will arrive to keep Euskaltel as a Basque company and committed to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u9	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u10	Good morning, congressmen. Before I begin, I would like not to waste the opportunity this rostrum gives me to condemn the coup d'état that the people of Bolivia have experienced this very week. It has been a lapsus, but it seems to me a serious thing and it seems to me that this rostrum should also serve for these kinds of expressions, because it is really serious what is happening in Bolivia these days and I did not want to let the occasion pass. I would also like to greet the GSS workers who are here, because I believe that precisely they – and also other workers – the problem they are experiencing right now is precisely a consequence of the issue we are discussing today with the motion brought to us by Mr Casanova, a matter that we have already discussed on other occasions and which has to do with the future of the company Euskaltel and the fiber optic network. Two elements – we have already said this on other occasions – that we believe are two strategic elements, because of the importance of telecommunications today in any society and also in Basque society, but above all because they are two elements that were built with public impulse, with public money, were built with the money of Basque society and that now respond to private interests. And the consequence of this, among other issues, is the labor problems that these workers are suffering and I wanted to greet them. We are also concerned about the future of the fiber optic network, about the future of that telecommunications network that leads the title of EH Bildu's motion. We are concerned – as we say in our amendment – about the future that this network can have if it is sold to a third private actor, because it is true that this is a root of that network, but we also have to say that we are concerned about the present of that telecommunications network. For us it would not be enough for that network to remain the property of the company Euskaltel, if the company Euskaltel does not meet a number of requirements, if the company Euskaltel, as until now, after all its privatization process, responds to exclusively private interests of its shareholders, in whose action in the company we are seeing what policies are carrying Euskaltel in these years. And Mr Casanova has referred to some of them and I would not like to repeat myself, but we are seeing how the workers are being shuddered to increase the profits of a few in this company. And that is the origin of the matter in our opinion: the transfer of public resources in favour of private interests. And this has to do with responsibility, and we believe that we must also say so. And in the case of the fiber optic network, it is very clear that this network was sold – and the decision was made one summer – in a rather urgent way and it must be said that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party are responsible for that sale. And it must be said that the governments we have had in this country – both the PNV and the Socialist Party – have been responsible in the privatization process of Euskaltel. And, therefore, we believe that they are ultimately responsible for the policy that Euskaltel has been developing with consequences for employment. We included in our amendment the issue of the impact on employment, because we are seeing very clearly how Euskaltel's policy is harmful to employment, both in terms of the destruction of jobs to increase the benefit of capital, and in terms of working conditions. The modus operandi This will undoubtedly create better economic conditions for the company, but it is done at the expense of precarious working conditions, it is done at the expense of great instability in the workers who end up working directly or indirectly in this case for Euskaltel. Therefore, we believe that the solution to this issue is not only to keep the fiber optic network in Euskaltel's hands if there are no changes in Euskaltel's policies as well. And in the sense of the second point of EH Bildu's motion, we agree with the statements or with the objectives set out in it, but we also think that it is not possible to do so if it does not overlap with a private company with private interests. We think that as long as there is no public control and powerful public ownership of this company, this is not going to be possible. That is why we insist once again on this issue. We think that it is a strategic company, and we think that the only way to ensure that it is at the service of the general interest in a strategic sector and that it respects the decent working conditions that people who work for Euskaltel must have, whether they have a direct contract with the company, or the workers who currently have contracts through indirect companies, the only way is public control. We are convinced of this and that is why we proposed our amendment as a whole. We'll defend her. It is also true that the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi does not deny the risk of this sale of fiber optic network, and this seems important to us. It also proposes that this possibility of acquisition, of shareholdings in the company should be considered, and it seems to us positive. I am not going to say that the small steps are not positive, but they are steps that, if they are not accompanied by the next steps to reach the final goal, do not serve. And we, for we distrust, we distrust because we think that those who have allowed...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u11	Please, pick up those papers, please, please pick up those papers! Please, or you'll go out. For the last time, otherwise you're going out!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u12	... those who have driven a privatization process in this company I have serious doubts that they will really now go through the process that we believe is necessary to reverse those privatizations, but it is true that it is difficult to refuse when someone opens their hand in small steps. I ran Behobia-San Sebastián the other day. I went out like a motorcycle and when I was going for the kilometer 16 my good friend Javier Laguardia, who came out step by step, little ones, because it happened to me, it's true. It's true that we both get to the finish line, and it's true that there are other people coming out too, taking a few small steps, but if you don't want to continue taking the necessary steps to get there, you don't get there. And that is the doubt that we have, if the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party are in favour of Euskaltel having strong public control again, because that is for us the solution, both so that a strategic sector can serve the general interest – more when that company has been generated with public money – and so that there are decent working conditions. Nothing more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u13	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u14	Yes, thank you, President. Egun where we're supposed to be. The motion that Bildu raised in today's debate is indeed part of an inquiry by Mr Casanova to the Councillor for Economic Development and Infrastructure on 25 October. And what the Basque Government intended to do was to call for the telecommunications network, which was largely built with public money, to match the country's digital strategy, to remain in the Euskaltel company. And today, the proposal to be discussed, the objectives that Mr Casanova seeks, do not contemplate the reflections that the counsellor made in response to her inquiry. Furthermore, we do not start from a zero point, either on the demonstrations, or on the actions carried out by the Basque Government on Euskaltel and on Euskaltel, nor on the agreements adopted by Parliament itself in relation to what has been, is and will surely be this undertaking. We have already discussed and agreed on specific actions on the rooting of Euskadi's strategic and tractor companies. And also specifically what concerns the company Euskaltel. In this Parliament we agreed at the end of May not to take into account Bildu's proposal for a law on measures to deal with the relocation of companies. We have discussed in this House the involvement of the Basque Government in tractor companies. And in the face of a non-legislative proposal on measures to be taken in the face of the serious situation in Euskaltel, this plenary session of the Basque Parliament agreed to urge the Government to use all available resources to ensure that Euskaltel has the highest level of roots in Basque territory, in order to ensure commitment to employment, investment, research, technological progress and the development of Euskadi. Therefore, there was also a second point, which said: "To urge the Basque Government to maintain and improve Euskadi's competitive capabilities in order to optimize the attractiveness of this territory as an optimal territory for the settlement and rooting of tractor companies". And the Basque Government, Kutxabank and the three bank-owned foundations of the bank were urged to develop a meaningful and sustainable investment policy in strategic companies, aiming at a productive, solid, healthy and healthy model in the Basque Country, in order to ensure their attachment to the territory and to ensure the capacity for stay and decision-making in that country. Since Parliament, therefore, the Government and other significant bodies in this area have been urged to maintain an always proactive attitude. And it is good to be vigilant about what happens in important and strategic sectors in the Basque productive fabric by those who have political and management responsibilities of the Government, but what cannot be denied is that the Basque Government is anticipating itself with management and collaboration actions in the specific case of Euskaltel, which are important for the maintenance of this company in Basque. And we said it on some other occasion by the socialists, we are facing a 21st century company and we want Euskadi to be a competitive territory economically and attractively entrepreneurship, not only for companies to settle and develop in Euskadi, but also for them to remain rooted when it comes to strategic companies and tractors. And with the outflow of the company Euskaltel, he took advantage to modify the statutes of this company, in order to guarantee a number of elements that were considered fundamental; among them, the root. And by defining how this should be done, also requiring an exceptionally high percentage of approval of the agreements that are linked to the root, these statutes were approved by all the shareholders of the company at the time before departure from the stock exchange company. And when we speak of rooting, we speak of social domicile, of the social object, of the brand, of the effective administration and management of society in Euskadi, which also includes the social headquarters, the obligation to hold joint meetings in Euskadi, maintenance of personal resources, maintenance of workplaces, the maintenance of the material means and, ultimately, the development of the activity of the telecommunications operator in Euskadi and the ownership of the telecommunications network. And we have discussed in this House on several occasions, as I said before, the territorial link of the company in Basquedi, the guarantees of that link, the process of the outflow of its capital, the planning for the promotion of public investment in companies in the industrial sector and the measures to be taken to establish in the Basque Autonomous Community the headquarters and decision-making capacity of Euskaltel and other strategic companies also important for this country. And, on several occasions, the Government has also stated that it did not rule out buying Euskaltel securities if necessary to guarantee or facilitate a stronger future of the firm in Euskaltel. And it is in the context of the political orientation of the Basque Government towards the acquisition of clear commitments and to have a strategic vision in the competitive framework that corresponds in which the Basque socialists share the reflections that he made on 25 October, when he proposed that Euskaltel, in fact, is a strategic company, is an important company to ensure the digitization of the Basque productive fabric. It is also an important company to guarantee the territorial balance of Euskadi, because in order to have a position in the Basque economy, in the Spanish economy and in the economy at international level, it is undoubtedly necessary to have powerful companies, tractor companies, implanted and involved in the territory and also with the Basque business fabric. And the work of Euskaltel, which is being carried out in collaboration with the Basque Government, goes in the direction of the maintenance of the company in Euskaldi. And that has been said as active and passive. And we have already shown on several occasions that we want a future marked by the root and growth of Euskaltel. And, in addition, we have already proposed the preference for an industrial partner in Euskaltel to allow him to grow anchored in Euskadi. We preferred an industrial partner to a financial partner. Of course, the councilwoman said so, we Socialists said, because this has not been the first, nor the second, nor the third time we have been talking about Euskaltel in this House. And with regard to the sale of the network, this was a manifestation of a shareholder who currently has the largest stake, but not the majority stake, not the majority of the shareholder's capital in the company Euskaltel. 25 % of the possible block of decisions – such as the transfer of the registered office of the trademark or the subject of the root – corresponds to Kutxabank and a number of small shareholders who have 25 % that allow this block. The decision whether or not to sell the telecommunications network is the responsibility of the board of directors, not Zegona, Mr Casanova, and you know it. He's on Euskaltel's board of directors. And that board of directors has not so far taken any decision on this matter, because neither has any approach been taken within that board. There were demonstrations from Zegona to the media, demonstrations and a desideratum. Ball point. There has been no more on that board of directors. And the company itself, through the CEO, has already publicly stated that the sale of the network had not been envisaged. That is why we believe that one cannot speculate without a certain basis and, above all, because certain matters and debates can cause a certain speculative interest to be promoted against which we all want to fight, but to which we are also favouring. So we share with the counselor the reflection she made when she said that the problem that exists must be raised in its right terms in order to be able to deal with it effectively. That 25% percentage that prevents this and other possible operations such as uprooting is in Basque hands. This percentage is ensuring the impossibility of such and other possible operations. And we are very aware of the importance of Euskaltel in Basque production. And what has become clear and evident after the inquiry that you carried out, Mr Casanova, the full past of control, is the work that the Basque Government has carried out with Euskaltel in extending the network to industrial polygons with various technical approaches and solutions. The counselor said: "Euskaltel is today an agent involved and relevant not only in general digitization, but also in the arrival at rural centers, in which although the number of customers is not relevant, it is the guarantee of territorial balance and hence becomes the importance of its presence in Euskadi". Today we have various financial plans and instruments to deal with various plans and guidelines that the Government wants to give, such as participation in strategic and tractor enterprises. Today we have tabled an amendment – as you said, Mr Casanova – in which what we propose is that a thorough analysis be made of what, if any, the government's involvement in Euskaltel should be like. But this is not going to remove the foundations, as you intended to give at least in your speech, it is not going to remove the foundations of the structure of the Euskaltel company. That's not what you're proposing. You know what, of the financial instruments available to the Government, are the maximums, limits, forks of participation in strategic enterprises and tractors. Because we want that root, because we want them to be in Euskadi, because we want them to be developed in Euskadi and we want them to be developed with Euskadi and with the productive fabric. But, of course, it is a small step, but a big step if one were to take the case that we are going to participate in Euskaltel. Then, in the reply I can comment on something else, but it seems to me that we should not cheat on the lonely either. One thing is to do an analysis, to know if it becomes important and let's say possible that participation in the company Euskaltel. And another thing will be how, with how much percentage and in what time frame. And let's hope it's for the good of Euskadi and for the good of Basque citizenship. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u16	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. He's always looking like a deja vu to me. His proposal of rooting, by the way, is asymmetric, because for some, very interested, as is the case that brings us, and for others, like Kaiku, because it seems that nothing at all, because, as he made clear last day, it seemed to him that it had no excessive meaning. The telephone yes; the agrarian production no. And that worries me, because I don't know how they're going to be able to move forward in food sovereignty, but good. The rooting of the companies to Euskadi is important, it is very important, but in many cases depends, at least, on two variables: that the company wants to stay and that the others want it here because it gives us a service, whatever it is. I am going to self-quote, which is a bit narcissistic, but in this useful case, and I will repeat it, because as these debates are being repeated, I will repeat to you what I told you in April, especially because it comes back to the case. I open quotes: "You think of the root of the companies to Euskadi as a kind of pastoral conception, of creating organizations adapted to the size of the country and in which that root is always accompanied by an unconditional love for the rooted company. But no, in this global world a technological company like Euskaltel that wants to have continuity has no other solution but to grow. "Growing up in an area where competitiveness is high-voltage. Growing up to be competitive, so that those of us who live here deep-rooted, we contract with her not only because she is from here, but because she offers us competitive prices and services. The rooting of a company will not always mean the rooting of the citizens rooted in that rooted company, and less so when competition is high and attacks on all four sides. Unless they propose to us, as in the case of food sovereignty that the tomatoes here we eat from here and we do not let those there enter, a kind of telephone sovereignty, wifi sovereignty, television sovereignty, that is, the telephone autarchy." I close quotes. Finish the ride. Well, for that reason, apart from other operations such as those already carried out by the Euskaltel board of directors to amend the statutes, as Mrs Corcuera has pointed out, the elements of roots, with 25% of the capital and at some point being able to expand the participation of Euskaltel from some public fund, it would not be bad if the Basques and citizens were involved in the company. And especially the institutions, because your parliamentary phone and everyone here is from Euskaltel? It's not. It is not a reproach to Parliament, at all, it is a finding that public procurement is a reflection of competitiveness that is not rooted in it. In the meantime, regardless of whether any action can be criticized, in Euskaltel, in the company Euskaltel, the root is and has been a determinant of its activity since the start of its operations in January 98. This root, in anticipation of its growth, has been protected and has historically manifested itself from a societal point of view. Because its origin is that of a company made by the Basque entities, as we all know, to provide services to the people of Euskadi, although time showed that it was necessary to give more than those services if it was to be a viable company. Even in order to be a Basque company that gave employment and services to the Basques, it had to grow in a wide, global and enormously competitive world. We could have a company that wasn't competitive and lost money. It could be, but I don't think that's what we want. In order not to forget its origin and its vocation, with the release on the market in July 2015, a modification of the statutes is approved to guarantee the root. The root elements are defined and a percentage is required, which in this case is exceptionally high, in order to try to modify those root elements, which are – as has been said – domicile, object, trade mark change, effective administration-direction and ownership of the telecommunications network in Euskadi. Those are the root elements. The minimum exceptional majority for amending them is 75 %. Then 25% can paralyze. Even though Kutxabank's share of the capital has been reduced to 19.88 %, different management funds managed by Kutxabank itself – Basque pension funds, Basque shareholders – add up to almost that necessary 25 %. And some shareholders amounting to 15% have fully aligned themselves with Kutxabank and have repeatedly stated that they will not vote against Kutxabank. Another thing is that a representative of Zegona, who has 1%, says in London that they are going to sell the network to raise funds and expand. You do not expect the slightest to squabble in and raise a repetition of the debate. Shortly after – after, I say, not before – the adviser-delegate makes statements in Euskadi and says that "today Euskaltel does not propose the sale of its network", and point, there is no debate at the moment. But no, you have taken the first statement and turn the burra to the wheat! Well, come on. Different operations have been carried out since the Euskaltel foundation and we can continue to discuss the opportunity of each of them and who acted well and who did it wrong. We can continue to reproach ourselves for the actions of some, the omissions of others or the ideological mediopensionism of those beyond. But the point is, we're where we are and it's time to look forward. We can continue to point out that operations were carried out to defend Euskaltel's resistance in a complex global market in the world of telecommunications and may continue to point out that wrong operations were carried out. But that will not prevent us from being where we are and that, without the need for everyone to give up their positions on the past, we can move forward together towards the future, which is what there is. The future is what there is. I have already told you that the current statutoryly modified model guarantees the root with 25%, based on the elements that define it, among which, and I will always insist, is the property of the telecommunications network in Euskadi. By the way, a network that, however sold, from Euskadi cannot go; in Euskadi it will stay. That can't be taken by anyone, because sometimes we say things, but the network is going to be here whoever owns it. Even – and Councilwoman Arantxa Tapia told her two weeks ago – Euskaltel is actively collaborating with the Basque Government in the development of digitisation in rural environments – the joint development with the Government with entrepreneurship projects and in relation to telecommunications. That is to say, today the share capital will be of one and the other, but today it continues to operate as a company of Euskadi, which knows that its origins and many of its objectives are still in Euskadi. This does not prevent us, in order to gain confidence and to ensure more if it is possible that the company Euskaltel is from Euskadi, now try to work or fix with more intensity on its rooting. Therefore, we ask the government to make an effort to buy, through a public fund, shares of Euskaltel and can even sit on the board of directors and collaborate with other entities that own the company so that the root is, if possible, even more guaranteed. Go further, as proposed by EH Bildu in his proposal, asking that the company align itself with public objectives and policies in the challenges of digitisation, that Euskaltel's action in the audiovisual field be strengthened and more aspects that form part of a company's strategic field of action, does not seem to be a matter of this Parliament's own. We should let the board of directors do it. This Parliament is by no means the general meeting of shareholders of Euskaltel. No one would think of asking Kaiku or CAF, in which the Basque Government has already entered to participate in the shareholdership, how they should do their market or strategic actions. We wouldn't think to ask them, though, given what there is, one day it will come. But I don't know, in principle we don't think of asking Kaiku to have chacoli yogurts, because it's more of a product in the country than the coconuts he sells; nor would we think of asking CAF to build the trams, I don't know, with the Txinduki profile, because that's things that the company will in any case decide on its advice. Look, I insist, decisions have been made that for some are the right ones and for others not, but if we continue in this melancholy debate of the past we will lose the present and the future, which we believe is what matters. Look, I, Mr Hernandez, I don't even run Behobia-San Sebastián, I didn't even think of running a weekend Antzuola-Bergara, which would be downhill. Each weekend runs with whomever you want, what you want and how you want. But in this case I think it is now time to move forward together, try not to repeat this debate again next quarter and start moving forward together, considering the new real shareholder situation that Euskaltel already has, and always respecting that it is a company that has to make its own decisions. That is why, in order to move towards that future, we, the socialist and nationalist parliamentary groups – and we invite others to join – are asking the government to really make an effort to enter the shareholdership and thus be able to further guarantee the company's roots in Basquedi, no more or less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u17	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. It's the round of a group that hasn't run any corrections, the popular. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. With your permission, I am going to add to Mr Hernández's condemnation of the coup d'état suffered by Venezuelans many years ago. I think this debate is a little false, because if the concern was the fiber optic network, I do not see either of the two groups – the proposer Bildu or Elkarrekin Podemos – suggesting that, if sold, the Basque Government buys the fiber optic network. That is not what you propose, either in the original proposal or in the amendment. Therefore, it seems that the problem of the fiber optic network is not the problem – if that is the real problem – which, as has already been said, whoever the owner is, is going to follow where he is. No one is going to take her out, as the Galician network is going to follow in Galicia, the Asturian is going to follow in Asturias, the Navarra will be in Navarre, whoever the owner is, and the Catalan will be in Catalonia. Nor is it well understood – some have already said this – but of course Zegona has a 20.94 and Kutxabank has a 19.88. I mean, a point. One point, and you're very worried. He's got one more point than Kutxabank. I do not know exactly what the problem is, but what you two are asking at the end is that the Basque Government buys Euskaltel; not that it buys the fiber optic network, if any, if it is sold – which could be questionable or not – but that we buy Euskaltel. And, curiously – and look how easy it is! – neither one of us tells us how much it will cost us to buy Euskaltel. No, no. Yeah, yeah. Sure, sure. Because it's easy to know, stock market. Quotation in the bag. I just looked at how much I was, before I got up here, and it's at 8.97, which on top of that, I don't know if it's the record at least in the last year of the highest rating. This means that it is worth approximately EUR 1.6 billion. In order to have 50% – because you propose that you control it and that you have majority capital – we would have to spend about 800 million euros on the stock market; that tomorrow we will go down and we will lose a few times – because the stock market will go up and down, right? – we will lose the Basques that 800 million, that I don't know where they were going to come from, but I hope to see their amendments to the budgets of the Basque Government and see where they will get 800 million so that the Basque Government will do with 50% of the capital of Euskaltel. And then, when I put the bag down, you will explain to the Basques why we have lost 100 million or 200 in a company that, by the way, is doing quite well. Mr. Casanova has remembered that in 2012 Euskaltel had a small problem, had to pay 220 million to Orange, and that it was sold to him by the Basque government... It's just that if you don't get to sell it, maybe we weren't talking about Euskaltel today, were we? Of course, we weren't talking about Euskaltel anyway. Why was Euskaltel sold to him? So investors would come in and be able to pay that penalty, that fine, and grow. That is why we voted in favour of that sale, and our votes were not needed, but we voted in favour of that sale, and that is why Euskaltel is where he is today. But this reminds me of the one who sells the house, and five years later it says: "Uh, the house is worth a lot more, we were wrong, we didn't have to sell it, to get it back to us at the price we sold." And it seems that some regret that Euskaltel is growing, that today he is the most important communications operator in northern Spain and that, obviously, in addition to being in the Basque Country, he is in Galicia, he is in Asturias, he is in Navarre, he is in Catalonia, in Cantabria he begins to be... What's bothering you? That it's no longer a small, manageable chiringuite to place amiguets? How bad luck some of them have! It seems good to us that you cannot place amiguets, and we do not understand that if the problem was the fiber optic network, do not pose, listen, because in case in your day, if they sell it, let's buy it, buy it, the Basque Government, that I do not know why it is necessary to buy it, because it is already where it is, it does its function, and they will rent it some or several to operate. Because the Basques, what do we gain from what you propose, apart from spending 800 million on the stock market? How do we improve the quality of life of Basques with their proposal? Not at all and not at all. I will not talk about the root anymore because they have already explained it many times, and if they are not aware that Euskaltel either grows or dies, like all companies, or becomes more competitive or will disappear, so of course. Although, yes, the network will remain in its place, wherever it goes, throughout all peoples will follow the network. Euskaltel may not, but the network will still be there and someone will buy it, in their case. But it is clear that Euskaltel has done what other Basque companies are not doing, which is to expand and grow, and to be competitive and, finally, with the stock market going down, because today it turns out that Euskaltel's action goes up a little bit, it's a little bit better than yesterday. So something will be doing well for Euskaltel's managers, because if it's worth more and it's growing and it's expanding, because it doesn't look like they're doing so badly. And, of course, what we are going to oppose is always that you ask us, well, Mr Hernández is also asking us about Basque public banking in the last paragraph of his proposal... We are going to oppose, and we said it from the beginning, that the Finkatuz fund is used either to enter inviable companies or to set up chiringuitos, I don't care if it is made of any of the groups that are for that work. We are not there, we are about to support companies, that companies grow, that create jobs. If they are tractors like this, better, and, of course, the root is guaranteed by the rules that exist now, no one raises it. They seek excuses, especially Mr. Casanova, who does not know exactly what obsession he has with Euskaltel. Bring the fiber optic network excuse to talk about anything but the fiber optic network. It's going to keep going through what it's going through today, whether it's Euskaltel or not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. The answer is now, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u20	I see that Mr. Telleria and Mr. Damborenea are the ones who would sell the Gorbea, right? Because, totally, there it goes. Then we can sell it. It's like the network, the network is going to follow here, no matter whether it's from one or another, whether it's a use or another, whether it's a service or another, whether it's a service or another, as it's going to follow there, because we sell Gorbea too, right? It is true that the debate is not new, but there are new elements. There are new elements. Basically two. First, that the Zegona CEO has verbalized what we have already warned here in June, that there was a concrete approach to the sale of the fibre optic network, has been expressly verbalised. Secondly, the Finkatuz fund has already been formally, but not definitively, set up. And that it has also been decided to incorporate it and provide it economically in a more consistent way than originally envisaged. These two elements have led us here to propose that this operation be carried out. We do not propose to buy Euskaltel, nor half of Euskaltel. That's what you got out of his sleeve. What we have proposed is to acquire sufficient participation to change the balance. Changing the balance is not taking 50%. At the moment Kutxabank has 19%, with an additional 6%, we would be talking about that 25% block would be managed not by ethereal investment funds or small investors, but by Kutxabank and the Basque Government. And therefore, there would be a guarantee that that blockade could be exercised. And we're talking 96 million. And if, in addition to the Basque Government, Kutxabank enters by strengthening its participation and bank foundations enter, even those 96 million would not have to be provided by the Basque Government. Therefore, the accounts go out. Why not buy the network directly? Because it is more interesting to buy the continent with content inside, or to buy a substantial part that allows us to control Euskaltel. It is more rational and we take better advantage of the money, which does not really go beyond us, buying a share of Euskaltel that allows us to influence the control of the entire company, and therefore also of the future of the fiber optic network, than buying only and exclusively the fiber optic network that thus, "by hair", because it would not be worth much. I have tried to avoid repeating myself, because it is true that this debate has been held cyclically here. And it has been given cyclically as well as exclusively brought by Euskal Herria Bildu, and it will continue to be given if it has to be given. And note that sometimes, of course, in the short term because it can produce us even lazy again to discuss the same thing. But if we see that the result of this debate we have passed from saying that Euskaltel is a private company in which we can do absolutely nothing about what happens there to say that we ask the government to study in depth the possibility of entering... And get out of this atrium from the main party that supports the government to say that what it would like us to do is sit on the board of directors as a government, for see if the small sacrifice of repeating the debates here every three months has borne fruit. You tell us now: "No, it is that nothing has materialized, only a proposal has been outlined." What do you want? That we wait for that proposal to be approved on a board of directors? We have obviously jumped as a spring when the mere possibility has been put on the table before that possibility becomes a reality or at least a threat within the board itself. We prefer to neutralise this debate now and make it clear to Zegona that he cannot go on there, before reacting when it is too late. And, I repeat, I do not want to repeat debates and I am not going to lecture anyone, but about the evolution of Euskaltel, what was going to happen and the predictions that each one did about what was going to happen, because we could talk long and stretched out. But, in short, as I told the councilwoman in the interpellation that I did, since what Euskal Herria Bildu was afraid was going to happen has really happened, and what the Basque Government and those who supported him were saying has not happened. Nor does the change of presidency in Euskaltel reassure us. First of all, it says, "Zegon, you don't have 100%." He's not 100 or 50. It has 21%, it is the majority shareholder and what it does have are management agreements that allow it most. And yes, what Zegona is doing is marking the line. Because once Zegona has been made with majority control, there has been a change of direction in Euskaltel, there has been a change of people and there has been a change of policies, and that is clear because, apart from 21 %, it has support. And there has been a change of president as well, not of the councillor-delegate, not of the executive, but of the president. And now Xabier Iturbe has entered, which does not reassure us either. That does not, therefore, reassure us, we are not reassured by people, we are reassured by commitments and we are reassured by the figures. And the figures have to be that there is at least a blocking minority or a majority minority, that not only prevents certain pernicious decisions from being made, but that it is able to draw the entire board of directors to put Euskaltel in the lane of being a company in the country. And look, Mr. Telleria, I defend the presence in Kaiku, I think it's great. You didn't understand me. And I say "he didn't understand me" and not "I expressed myself badly" because I heard the speech I made the other day again. What I said was that there hasn't been an increase in Kaiku, there hasn't been an increase. And that we cannot be sold as an increase in the presence and the root of an operation that has not brought about the increase. Kaiku seems very respectable to me and a worthy company...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u21	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u22	... that investments be made, as in many others. But in this case, and returning to Euskaltel, as I said, let us look to the future. We could recreate ourselves a lot in what everyone said in the past, because I think it is quite clear the time to who it has put and where to each, but we will look to the future. And if that future is an analysis. Let us hope that this analysis will draw the only logical conclusion, which is a significant entry. And if not, and if not, then indeed, do not throw the notes, do not leave them far away, for if not, we will see each other again in this rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u24	Yes, you say, says above all Mr. Telleria, who plays to look forward. Well, it's time to look forward, but we certainly can't look forward without the rear-view mirror, especially for a reason, because one of the things I've explained, not only today but other times we've discussed this issue, is that we want to reverse some of the processes and decisions that have been made regarding the Euskaltel company. Therefore, we do look forward, but taking into account what has happened. Because precisely our forward look has to do directly with all that privatization process of the company Euskaltel. Of course the network is going to be here and the company is still a Basque company. That is why we have also said from the beginning that for us the famous root, if it is not matched with the company serving the general interest because it is a strategic sector and because it has been created to a large extent with public resources and if it does not serve so that the totality of the jobs that depend on this company, both those of those who work for it directly and those of those who work through contracts, are worthy jobs, because then for us that root would not serve, would not be so. For us, the importance of rooting has to be that. Because we can move forward together, yes, but if we have the same goals. And that's the part I'm not clear about. Because at the moment, for us, the policies of the company Euskaltel what they are bringing about with regard to employment is that: in addition to certain job losses – at the moment I think there are 90 at risk in the company, whose workers are present here – it provides working conditions that are not decent working conditions. And, therefore, whether the future will be to ensure that the fibre optic network remains in the hands of a private company that does not guarantee good working conditions and does not serve the general interest of the country, for that is certainly not enough for us. And we, I said again, are also not against the company growing, expanding or being more or less competitive, but there are different ways to do that. For us the growth and expansion of a company, if it is at the cost of crushing the workers, it certainly does not serve us, it does not serve us. The growth of capital at the expense of the working class does not serve us, because we also think that there are alternatives that can perfectly balance the viability and competitiveness of companies – and more so in sectors like these – with the maintenance of good working conditions that, in our opinion, are also good for a more competitive company, even if it is not from saving in labor, which is how often some companies are made competitive, unfortunately. We stand for our amendment and continue to stand for public banking as well. For us public banking is important and we believe that the need for such financial elements has been demonstrated in the last crisis. It is true that we are not going to oppose the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, but if you want us to walk together we will have to see if we have the same objectives. We, and in view of the policies you have pursued with regard to Euskaltel so far, believe that we do not have the same objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Corcuera, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u26	Thank you, President. Let's see. Mr Tellería said that it is not good to go back to debates, at least on the subject of melancholy. But without any melancholy, it is good to retreat and know the past with all its details, not to make mistakes again, which I do not consider in this case to have been any mistake. I do not recognize myself as having been wrong in supporting this issue in August 2012, but it is for what it may be in the future to see how to overcome certain crises as well. Because Euskaltel and the sale of Euskaltel, not only because of the issue of paying those 220 million, but because the Basque Government in 2012, I remind you, for those who were and those who were not..., full economic crisis, full financial crisis, full social crisis, municipalities with a Financial Sustainability Law that prevented you from getting into debt... And you know what was going on in 2012? That Eusko Alkartasuna and Aralar wanted the Basque Government then to be a telecommunications operator, which was contrary to the European directive. Moreover, the control, guardianship and monitoring of a private company could not be carried out as if it were a public company based on the market rules that prevailed and that currently prevail. And because it was not a matter of losing any heritage, as some of the political representatives of Eusko Alkartasuna and Aralar said then, it was not a gift of heritage. No one here invented an assessment of Euskaltel, no one, nor the then councillor, Mr Aguirre, nor any of those who valued that proposal. That one had economic reports, with names and surnames and signatures, and no one invented any valuation. Moreover, those representatives at the time proposed that it be the municipalities that buy, as if the municipalities were those financially solvent entities, in 2012, huh? Let's go back: economic crisis, in which the municipalities were not left to be in debt absolutely nothing, zero euros. And then, oh, geez!, wonderful proposal: that the municipalities buy Euskaltel to continue with public control, which was also prevented by European rules and the European directive, was prevented from having that public control that the representatives of Eusko Alkartasuna and Aralar then proposed. And the sale, which served to enable them to have funds and to have more shareholders and actually pay the 220 million that Euskaltel owed, also provided a source of income for a Basque government that could not obtain any tax reform to increase revenues from 2009 to 2012. None. In this legislature we're going two, two. So, none. So here no one got fed up, no one made strange assessments, no heritage was given and, therefore, we can't sometimes say things without knowledge of cause. And I put it on top of the table, the knowledge. Mr Casanova said that the internal balances of Euskaltel must be changed, that the majority of the company should be acquired in order to throw Zegona out. You don't believe it, do you? Do you think that with participation – if that analysis that the government is going to do in depth leads you to acquire participations – we're going to throw Zegona away? You said that the company's commitment to the country should be addressed. But he's already in the middle of something! But if the engagement is! If you really are expanding even the network to reach industrial polygons, to reach rural centers, to be collaborating between the government and Euskaltel for startups Then, of course, the speech this alarmist and catastrophic, and then I come forward and I am the benevolent who I will also support the amendment. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, It is that it does not hang, because if you really have the pretensions that you have through your initiative, I do not know why you vote in favour of the amendment, because it is an amendment that says that the government is thinking. And the Finkatuz fund, listen, between 3 and 5 %, or up to 20 %, because there is not much room for the government to buy that majority either. And he's not gonna kick Zegona out. So, finally, let's get things straight. I understand and share the Government's need to maintain and strengthen the positions of strategic and tractor companies. That is why we are supporting the Government, and that is why we will also support the budgets. Because do not forget, Mr Casanova, that if the budgets do not come out, the additional provision that comes to say that Finkatuz has to have that legal framework of amparo does not come out. So, finally, in that we will be, because we cannot close our eyes either to the fact that the legal coverage so that Finkatuz is the economic fund that allows such participation, if the additional provision that carries the draft budget law for 2020 does not come out, we will not have on January 1st a legal possibility for Finkatuz, however much you want.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u27	Finish it, please. Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u28	Good morning again. I don't get to Mr. Damborenea's liberalism or the sole of the shoe. Obviously, I can't reach him, nor do I boast of being liberal. But when I talk about selling and that even if it's sold it stays, that's true and you know it. The Gorbea can be sold. In fact, a lot of Gorbea land is sold and bought every week, because the important thing is the rule that is above sales and that determine what can be done with that land. And, therefore, you can do it one or the other, but the soil will continue in the Gorbea either of one of Orozco or one of Zeanuri, will continue to be there. So why are we going to refuse to sell? But it's not accurate, it's not mimetic. As long as we don't sell the soul, the rest, in principle, we can work it out. By the way, now that we're talking about sales, let's be careful. Euskaltel is a listed company. It is a company whose contribution is therefore supervised by the CNMV. Let's not talk about action units or anything else. Let it flow with normality and value what we have asked here. By the way, I am glad that you say that you agree, as you basically agreed, because you abstained, in the April debate of the previous quarter. The amendment we tabled at the time, which was adopted, said: "The Basque Parliament urges the government to use all available resources to ensure that this company has the highest level of roots in Basque territory". And then he said, "The Basque Parliament urges the government to develop a meaningful and sustainable investment policy in strategic enterprises to ensure their connection to the territory." We had already said so. And now we've made it a little more concrete. We said, "Hey, take this step, but don't be surprised what we're saying." It seems that we have fallen or the light that appeared to St. Paul has appeared to us. Not at all. We came to say so and you approved this proposal of ours in April this year. And then, I, you know, I was going to say that we were happy with Iturbe's presence in the presidency, which was one more step. But I had said, "I'm not going to say it because they're going to tell me that it's a vase, that the president is a vase, as they've said before." And, of course, it comes to me and it puts it to birth. And I thought, "I'm going to talk to Iturbe and I'm going to tell him not to worry, that in 20 years they will speak well, as happened to Ardanza, who has to wait 20 years." With you you have to wait time, because you are a little retarded in the reaction to things. And in any case, you have to look forward. You can put on the rear-view mirror and everyone can put on the rear-view mirror and re-analyze and re-analyze what has been done. But that, deep down, recognizes me, hinders the debate many times. If we put ourselves in a little thing of agreement, in a little thing, and we are willing to move forward, let's move on to that little thing, and then, privately, because they put us to birth for what we've done or what they think we've done or stopped doing. But if we insist on each one justifying their own, explaining the other, criticizing the other, for surely we pervert the debate of the small meeting point that we have to move forward. And in any case, I do warn you: your model and our model are radically different, and that is simply to re-observe it. The public control model of a company... Why Euskaltel yes and Workshops Martinez not?, I wonder. Of course, if we ask the workers at Martinez Workshops, they'll say they want to be public too. For the guarantee of employment, for certain aspects. But it's not like that. And why is Euskaltel strategic and Martinez Workshops not? Are we starting to analyze each company's strategy? Why are some strategic or not? We must also allow the market and reality to flow a little, although, I insist, we agree on one thing. And I think that, in this case, if we move forward that we have agreed to try to amchamartillar Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u29	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Basque Popular, Mr. Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. See, the Basque government when in 2012 it sold the network, it made money that came very well to the Basque government. But he better came to Euskaltel, because it gave him value and came in new investors who put money, and that's why the company moved on and that's why we're talking about that company today. Mr. Casanova mentions the Gorbea. He's changed hands many times and he's still there. Many, many times and there it goes, in the same place, without moving. And he says, "No, I brought this debate because the novelty is Finkatuz." Finkatuz, I don't know what's new, because it's still a kind of fund project, because at the moment what they've brought us is an accounting account at the Basque Institute of Finance, and they're not clear on the conditions under which you're going to enter or how you're going to invest or what you're going to invest or what you're going to invest in. You've changed my speech a little bit, because it says, "No, we haven't asked you to buy it." Yes, they did. Yes, you literally tell us: "Let's buy enough shares of Euskaltel to take over most of the company's control." Well, most of the company's control is 50,001, if you want. That's most of the company's control and that's 800 million today, but Friday was 700. Friday was 700. And as this debate is repeated, I said to him, "Man, it's not a good idea to urge a government in a parliament to buy stock market shares, because it can get them up." Because, of course, if you go out and buy the Basque Government stock in the stock market, because maybe you pick up and climb, and then we still get worse the joke this one you're raising, which is the same thing Elkarrekin Podemos raises. Because it tells us: "... process of return to public control of the network and the company Euskaltel", that that, public control, is more than 50%. The two have raised exactly the same thing. In any case, we, Mr Hernández, are very pleased that the labour rights of Basque workers in the Basque Country are not those in China, North Korea, Cuba or Venezuela, which are their referents. We'd rather you still have the ones you have here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the discussion has ended, we will put the original text of Mr. Casanova Alonsus to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u32	So it's not accepted. Together we'll vote for the full line of Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u33	So it's not accepted. And in the end, Eucabertians and Sociialists of Euzalia will vote for a full-forcement made by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 53; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstations, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u34	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, concerning the plan of impact against the guard-ground. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. García, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u35	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning. We know that the wage gap is mostly due to the fact that women work in the worst-paid and least-hour sectors, because they have the most partial contracts. In fact, one in four Basque working women, 25%, has a part-time job, a percentage which falls to 7% for men. That is, partiality is highly feminine and not always voluntary, and this directly affects wage differences. Women occupy less economically valued categories of work and, in addition, lower working hours, as women have higher rates of partiality and temporaryity in their employment contracts. As a result of this situation, in recent years we are seeing labour disputes in feminized sectors, sectors in which it is women who are generally part-time, often precarious, and usually very undervalued. Sectors in which there are a large number of labour disputes, such as the residences of Bizkaia, the residences of Gipuzkoa, the cleaning of Osakidetza, the cleaning up of police stations and courts, the home help service of many of the Basque municipalities, the cleaning up of the municipality of Elorrio and many other consistories; the situation of saturation of women workers in the social services, and without forgetting the unjustifiable and anachronistic situation of women domestic workers we will talk about today in this plenary, but it will be later. I could go on, but I think you already have an idea of what I am talking about, and from Elkarrekin We can, from our parliamentary group, have dealt with and dealt with these conflicts on various occasions in this House. They are sectors in which the picture of the employment situation in which many of the women in this country live is clearly shown. They suffer the wage gap, have greater temporality, greater precariousness, less valued employment niches, and are generally indispensable for sustaining life. That is why the initiative we are presenting today is so important. A proposal where the focus of the debate is to address a shock plan that eliminates precariousness in the care sector. A shock plan. Amaia Pérez Orozco, a well-known economist and feminist, explained in a committee in this Parliament that jobs are indispensable for the sustainability of life those less valued in the market and, generally, those that accumulate, because they are lent in a more private and invisible sector, a greater factor of vulnerability and precariousness. And this, of course, is a problem of patriarchal society as a whole, here and elsewhere. But what specifically happens in Euskadi? Here, at home, the sectors of care in particular, mostly occupied by women, are highly precarious sectors; and, in particular, those that depend on public institutions themselves directly or indirectly are placed at an important level of precariousness, because they are not considered an indispensable axis for sustainable development and because they have an impact on the quality of life of women workers, but also on the quality of life of those who need care and that of their families and, therefore, on the quality of life and the well-being of the whole citizenry in Euskadi. From Elkarrekin We believe that the workers are making a great effort to improve their working conditions, to improve the quality of services and to give centrality to tasks that are essential for the maintenance of a dignified life. And it is therefore our responsibility and, above all, our obligation, to echo ourselves in the institutions where we have public representation. And it's urgent. It is urgent to be able to respond from an institution like Parliament, to face this situation with an integral and strategic vision, because it is a situation that has to do with the quality of employment, because it has to do with equality and because it has to do with the sustainability of lives. And this, this is very common, but really; beyond headlines and advertising wedges, we are talking about common good. In our opinion, the labor conflict that has been affecting these feminized sectors has been generated by decades of this lesser symbolic and material recognition of feminized tasks. And from our parliamentary group we want Euskadi to move towards a society in which institutions and policies put lives at the centre and in which those lives are sustainable and are driving the well-being of society as a whole. And that is why we are putting and bringing this proposal to debate today. We also believe that, as we proposed a while ago, it is essential to stop and propose structural solutions to structural problems, concrete solutions to specific problems. It is essential to bring this debate to the surface with the firm intention that women's jobs have equal value and have the same space at the heart of the agenda. And that has to be done with a feminist look, because it is from feminism that it has been further analyzed and deepened in the truly transformative proposals that go beyond the simple distribution of tasks between women and men. In short, labour disputes are taking place in the highly feminized sectors over the past three years. This labour conflict responds, among other reasons, to a situation that has been generated for decades by the lower symbolic and material recognition of the work of care and, in general, of all the tasks that are highly feminized. The picture of reality is very clear as it has already become apparent in this Parliament. The jobs that are indispensable for the sustainability of life are the least valued. The care sectors are highly precarious, not considered an indispensable axis for the sustainable development of Euskadi. And that has an impact on the quality of life of women workers, of people in need of care and, as we have already said, of families and, in general, of all citizens in Euskadi. We must recognize the efforts being made by women workers to improve their working conditions, to give quality to services and to give centrality to tasks such as care, which are essential for the maintenance of dignified life. It is therefore urgent to address this situation with a comprehensive and strategic vision of many families with difficulties in meeting the needs of care, and the multiple labour conflicts, which are a symptom of a wide-ranging problem affecting thousands of women workers and all citizens. We want, as I say to you, to move towards a society in which institutions and policies place lives at the centre and focus on sustainability. To this end, an impregnable first step is that the care sector should finally have the social and material recognition it deserves, a sector with great potential to be one of the essential drivers of an economy that puts people's lives and well-being at the centre. And that is why we have put forward an initiative. We want Parliament to recognise the causes of the current conflicts and for Basque institutions to recognise and play their role in these situations, because they have responsibility, because they can take letters in these conflicts. On the other hand, we want a plan to combat precariousness and the wage gap in the care sector, because the strategy is fine. The strategy to eliminate the wage gap is fine, but it is not enough on its own to cover the current deficit and the situation we are now addressing. Because it is essential that quality employment be created in the sector, so that a sector which is not affected by the economic development policies of the Basque Government can be developed. We have never heard a single word from Mrs Tapia about this sector. And this sector is one that does not move and, above all, is one that directly affects the quality of life of people. We are putting concrete measures on the table today. Together, Podemos works for equality, for solidarity and justice. We want to fill cities and cities with life and put everyone in the centre. Women, too, must be in the middle. What the rest of the groups are proposing are issues that we share. That is why we signed the motion which gave rise to the agreement referred to by Mrs Garrido in her amendment and, therefore, in that same agreement we left things in the tinker, so that it could go forward. With regard to the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government, we of course share the strategy of fighting the wage gap and consider it an important step, but obviously it cannot be the only one. And we also share the agreement that gives rise to the strategy to support caregivers; that is why we signed it in their day. However, we cannot and do not want to remain in what already exists, because that is not to push the Government, nor does it change what does not work. What needs to be done is to improve, what needs to be done is to provide concrete solutions. Shock plan, that's what we're proposing today. And, on the other hand, we agree with the measures proposed by Mrs Kortajarena and, in fact, we have considered them in the amendment; but the reality is that they do not have to do with what we were proposing today specifically, or in some way they derail too much of the objective that we are proposing today, which does not remove so that we can fully agree with what you are proposing, Mrs Kortajarena. In short, today we have come to talk about the care sector, the precarious nature of many women in the Basque Country and the concrete solutions that we propose to put an end to this situation through a shock plan. Dignity and quality of life at the heart of policies and dignity and quality of life for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. We are again discussing this interesting subject, in this case, by a motion introduced by Podemos, and by a proposition, excuse it. I used to say a motive, because just now in March, on the 7th of March, we discussed another proposition in the parliament, a motive in this case, and a large deal of agreement was obtained with one mouth on this subject. We are again speaking of the attention of submission, and it is true that it must be a privilege to improve the state of these persons to all public powers. On this side, no doubt, we agree. But we must also remark that we do not see the proposition of Poseidon, as he has shown it, and we do not see how to promote the plan he proposes. When we saw the initiative put forward by Podemos, and since we had recently discussed this issue – which is certainly a priority for us –... We have talked a lot about care, about caregivers; we have talked about residences too, we have recently urged the Basque Government to review the decree of residential centres; we have also repeatedly urged this Government to be more diligent in the development of the Social Services Act, when last year 10 years of its existence have been fulfilled..., and the balance sheet is not the desired one, the expectations set out in the law itself have not been met in this respect. But to us, seeing that there was an agreement recently adopted unanimously in this Parliament on care, it seemed to us more important to recover that agreement as a starting point, regardless of the aspects that the different groups might consider in their compromise amendments and which we have analysed. So, finally, we finally tried to make a deal, but in the end, in the end, we could see things proposed by the united EH, but not other things. And the same thing happened to us with the Jestle Party, we have no difficulty at last to say that the Government can continue with what it is doing, but it is certain that this is a matter of little difficulty if we do not place other matters in this agreement. I don't know, too, that no sabemos exactate tampodo de cummplimiento de la moción testada el 7 de marzo, en en que se recogían spectos muy concretos en reción con este aimo. In this motion, which we considered appropriate in the amendment to the whole presented, it was said that the Basque Government had to carry out, or we urged the Basque Government to carry out awareness-raising campaigns to recognize the social value of care, with a need to make the tasks of care visible. We were also talking about a report in the Basque Parliament on how to promote the sustainability of life. Y luego poníamos debes concretos. We gave the government specific duties in specific areas. On the one hand, we asked him to give us a research on this subject, to find out what situation we've got, to make the evaluation of the pretty ones that are made, and then to promote new measures, with a chromagram and specific budgets. We therefore placed specific duties on the Government to carry out an analysis of the current model of care, the current situation, the evaluation of current policies being implemented and measures to be developed in the future, with a timetable and budget, as well as the development of a strategy to support caregivers. As I said, it is true that there are some aspects – and in that sense we would have liked a broader agreement on the amendment tabled by EH Bildu – in which we can agree, and, in addition, several groups in this House recently approved the revision of the decree of residential centres; there are also pending decrees and, in that sense, we do agree. Where we do not have a coincidence is at the other point in the amendment tabled. And with the amendment originally tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party, we have no problem either, in principle, but we believe that it was also a little short and perhaps too general. In that regard, we have considered it opportune to recover the content of our motion. We believe that progress needs to be made on a number of issues: recognition of the caregiver's task, and, above all, as has been said here, bearing in mind that it is a clearly feminized sector, on the impact it has on the family core of caring for a person who is in a situation of dependency. As we said in the debate which ended on 7 March, care is hard work, it is poorly recognized, it is poorly paid, it is work that also has an unpayable social value, and these things obviously have to be put on the table. It must be put in place, and in this regard I know that the Government is working and we have no problem in recognizing it, but we also believe that a more determined bet must be made. And, in that sense, we will, in the amendments that we will put forward in the budgets, focus on this issue, on everything that has to do with conciliation and the narrowing of the wage gap, which also clearly affects this sector, in the care sector, in a sector, as I say, which is clearly feminized. We therefore believe that our whole amendment is more complete, because it refers to an agreement that places specific duties on the Basque Government and, in that sense, gure proposamena, gure zuzenketa defendatuko dugu. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u38	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u39	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, good morning to all. Well, it's not the first time we've had a discussion about the watch on this legislature, and it's not the first time we've discussed the conditions of women working in the custody. But in this, too, it seems that we are not able to lead forward any enterprise that will place it in the way of turning it over, and I think it is thought to be deliberate, since we all speak and insist upon the worth of the care, we all make a firm choice of equality, but at last, when these and such engagements are to be concluded in particular things, the intentions remain in other matters. Because, after all, we're talking about opportunity or political choice here. Garcia has well explained how Amaia Pérez, in the performance here made, insisted on the least possible employments for the support of life. We entirely agree with the diagnosis or character of the situation which Mrs. García has made here today; we agree with the philosophy of this enterprise, that differences may be different, but probably, as far as we share the feminist perspective, and as we place life and life in our political activity, and projects in the middle of action, we find it easier to agree or to do so in these matters. And that's why I won't stay too long in this description of the situation, because you've done it right yourself. But it's true that there are thousands of women working in the field, be in prayer, domestic service... but, in any case, these care-givers are not valued, and when they are treated as labor there is no small wages, a mean rights, and no social confessions exist. The feminized area is despised and precograted to guard. The women of this field are despised, and obliged to sell their labours cheaply. Green is the new purple light "Work and life are at present a tendency to understand as a sphere separated from each other; but when the first object of work is the life of the people, it is the time to re-open the schematics." Many of the workers of the East have remarked: that they work with persons, their conditions improved, and the quality of the life of the people who look after them improves. The experiences which have been attempted in the struggle with the workers of a concrete sector have been attempted in this book, but, starting from this particular field, the whole world may be questioned, and even the working woman may begin to represent the existing world, another world which puts life in the middle of life. From the gathering of the Basque People, we can clearly see that this is the way to make it for us and the corridor, but it necessarily compels us to repeat two questions which we put upon the table in another discussion about the subject. First, like ours, two questions a society who wants to be guarded for the rest of his life, and who wants to be worthy of care: one, how we want to be looked after, and the other, who will take care of us. So it's an inevitable discussion about the watch pattern. And it is true that we ought not to confine our care to submission, that the discussion and reflection around the watch should be much more extensive, but because we are speaking of the domains which are to be employed to-day, I should like to remember that a large portion of the carefulness of the care-makers had been cut back into the system of social services by our people, now eleven years ago, especially in the care of the carefulness of the care of the community. And in return of this system, the labourers of the establishments mentioned in the expedition, or the working of domestic services. The system of social services is a highly important element, in the watch pattern chosen by this people, but in this legislation it has been very clear that this is not a priority, not for the Government, nor for the groups supported by it. And it's still more clear from 2020's budget test. The development of social services is not a political priority for this government, which leads us from the point of view of care to a fat problem. Apart from being an important element in the care organization, the system of social services is an important element to re-equivocally and value these watches, because I'd like to ask you what you're talking about when you're talking about the teams that support the government, even the Poptular Party, when you're talking about stuning those watch-works. Are you planning to give me some diplomat? Are you going to put a bug in there? What's the translation of this treatment in a product? What is it, after all? What does this surrender come back to? There is no other way in this social confession, which is made for work, in the conditions of work. And today, on the 7th of March, this agreement has been mentioned, and you will mention again, both the Popular Party and those groups which support the Government, but the reality is that the means of action take us away from other places, and it has just been shown that in this decree, rather than in this decree, there has been a very clear choice in this government. The Government in that decree has made it clear that it is committed to the commercialization of care. I said this – and I repeat this – in another discussion we had on the subject, that it is not for this government to make care a profitable business, but to put people in the center, put their life in the center, and put care in the center. Because when governments function as an economic agent, as an economic agent more, because public services, and especially women, have much to lose, too much. Centers with individual rooms, cutting-edge centers, innovative, with lots of technology can be decreed. But, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to ask you today a question: do you want a robot or a machine to take care of you when you are older? Well, there's the answer. How? What are your plans? What are you trying to do? How do you intend to turn this situation around? Do you think you're going to keep doing all that on women's behalf? Do you think women are free? Well, I think there's an element for reflection. And then there's, and Mrs. García has also talked about something that's strengthening in the social economy. And it's the one that social economists like Joseba Permach call "the silence of care." What is happening in an ageing society, in which care is going to be needed, the occupations related to all this are not seen and are not going to be absorbed by mechanical-digital work, and which does not mention care at all in its prospective exercises. Is one of the elements hiding, one of the most important jobs in the future? Not only because of the importance that care should have in an economy at the service of people, but also because of the number of people to be cared for. Why is digitalization so prestigious and not people's care? How does this affect the recognition of these jobs, their salaries and their working conditions? What effect does all this have on the wage gap? Surely all this is hidden because that would change the rules of the game, and perhaps because that has to do with that allowing us to raise wages and establish working conditions that are not acceptable. We are not going to choose that and we are going to make those care jobs visible and we are going to create, as Marina Garcés says, other frameworks that allow us to build new realities and worthy realities. It is true that Mrs García mentioned that the outsourcing of these services also generates another series of precarious situations. Is it true, but are there no alternatives to respond to such situations, even in cases of outsourcing? We think it's clear that it is. Moreover, from Europe, public procurement strategies already mark the need to review our public procurement policies and to use public procurement for political purposes and objectives, in order to achieve those common objectives, those social objectives that a society seeks. For this reason, the application of social clauses in recruitment is particularly relevant when it comes to addressing the wage gap, when it comes to being in that top five. That is why we did understand that all those political decisions that we are making and that have the consequences that they have were in substance. In any case, as I said at the beginning, we share with the proponents philosophy and approach, we also share a feminist perspective and we share the need and urgency to put lives and care at the centre. That is why we are also going to stick to our initiative, because we believe that it is important and because there is an abandonment of this government's functions in this capital sense, but we will also vote in favour of the initiative put forward.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u41	Thank you, President. Today again in this plenary we are going to discuss again, as 15 days ago in the plenary on 31 October, about job insecurity and the wage gap. Although this time we want to make a split calling for the elaboration of a plan to combat job insecurity exclusively for the care sector. At the plenary session on 31 October, a subsequent motion for an inquiry on the improvement of the living conditions of Basque citizens was tabled. On that occasion, the Elkarrekin group requested that a shock plan be drawn up to address job insecurity, temporaryity and the wage gap. I pointed out that this operational plan on the wage gap already exists, because the Basque Government approved the Strategy and the Operational Plan to Reduce the Wage Breache in Euskadi, at the Governing Council of 27 November 2018, where a strategy is put in place to reduce the short-term wage gap in the period 2018-2020 and to respond to the demand of this Basque Parliament that the Basque Government be urged in January 2018 to present this action plan. It is also a commitment of the government programme for the 11th parliamentary term between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party; a social commitment indispensable for equality between women and men, and in particular in the area of pay, and a commitment made in turn by the Department of Labour and Justice to economic and social actors. In this Operational Plan to reduce the wage gap in the Basque Country between women and men, I indicated that a diagnosis of the current situation and recent evolution of the wage gap in the Basque Autonomous Community, and the recommendations collected through the process of contrasting and contributions of the different economic agents and citizens in general – academic experts, associations of women, agencies, institutions... – and which aim to put the Basque Country up to 2030 among the five European countries with the least wage gap. In addition, the Operational Plan contains a forecast of economic resources of 283 million euros to be distributed on the 2019-2020 horizon. Today's initiative calls for provision of resources, but this is already done. The content of the Strategy and the Operational Plan will also be developed in coordination with the various departments of the Basque Government, because it is inter-agency in nature, and with the Basque Social Dialogue Bureau. Steps must continue to be taken to combat job insecurity, the wage and social gap and the development of our social services system. We've done it in the last few years, but we've already got the limbs. My group, the Basque Socialists, believes that a new shock plan is not needed, but that it is necessary to continue to implement and produce results on the plan adopted a year ago. At the plenary session on 31 October, the need to carry out this shock plan, which you proposed should be redrafted, was not approved. Today they bring us the same request, only 15 days later but, as I said in the previous plenary, calling for a subplan for the care sector to be developed now. And we don't think it's necessary. But it is also not the first time that this request has been made, because on March 7, 2019, we also discussed a motion concerning the need to eliminate the wage gap in the Basque administrations and, in particular, in women's sectors on strike. On that occasion, I told them that my parliamentary group did not agree with the motion put forward by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, where it took the view that, at the level of local, outlying and autonomous governments, actions were being taken to curtail and violate the exercise of the right to strike, because it was not correct. We cannot accept such a statement. And in this initiative they repeat exactly the same thing again. And that is not correct, because Basque institutions cannot take the necessary measures to resolve labour disputes if mediation by the parties is not expressly requested. Conflict resolution must take place in the area of collective bargaining between the parties concerned in the conflict, between the employer and the unions concerned. And, moreover, at its point one would imply the need for the publication of all these services. This initiative also mixed, exactly like today's, the request for a minimum wage of 1,200 euros per month for 14 pay, or for reductions in pay differences, with the professional category of the worker, or the request for a 35-hour day. And that, because they mix things that don't fix per se totum revolutionum Again, as we are used to, they repeat an initiative almost identical to that carried out on 7 March, because, although they did not literally reflect that it concerned the care sector, it did mean that it referred to feminized sectors on strike. It just changes that now what they are asking is for this shock subplane to be developed. And at the national level, on 1 March 2019, the Government of Spain has approved the Royal Decree-Law on Urgent Measures to ensure equal treatment and opportunities in employment and occupation, the aim of which is to eliminate the wage gap and guarantee the right of workers to conciliation and co-responsibility. Many measures at the autonomous and state level have been taken in the fight against the wage gap, demonstrating the commitment of the Basque Government and the commitment of the Government of Spain to the fight against the wage gap. We are in the right direction and, moreover, the fight against the wage gap is taking place from an interdepartmental perspective. For our part, we do not believe that there has to be a special shock plan apart from the current global and already approved by the Government. In the three sub-items, the publication, collective bargaining, measures of working conditions, such as a minimum wage of 1,200 euros, a day or matters on which the Department of Labour and Justice cannot decide, are remixed, because changes in these matters have to be made through the Government of Spain. That is why we are going to defend our amendment to the whole, which states that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue to make progress in the Strategy and the Operational Plan to narrow the wage gap between women and men in Euskadi, which was already approved at the Governing Council of 27 November 2018 and which will be developed between different departments of the Basque Government, in an interdepartmental manner and with the Social Dialogue Bureau of Euskadi. The Basque Government is also urged to implement, as soon as possible, the strategy to support caregivers. We have tried to reach a compromise amendment with the People's Party. Mrs Garrido said in her speech that she agreed with what we proposed in our amendment as a whole, but she wanted to defend hers. We have proposed that you make a full amendment including your point. It couldn't have been like that, it didn't want to. I am sorry, because this joint compromise amendment could then have been adopted in plenary today. And since that has not been possible, we are going to defend our amendment as a whole, which we consider to be the most correct. This is the way forward and it is the one we are going to defend. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u42	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u43	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Well, at this point all groups agree that women are mostly the ones who take care of both in and out of the home, necessary care that all of us have needed and will need at different stages of our lives. This has meant that care is or is in a feminized, highly precarious sector that perpetuates the wage gap and is often carried out without any kind of remuneration. We still have a long way to turn this situation around. A cultural change is required and must be done with the implication of citizens, institutions, political parties, unions and corporations. But we are all changing this situation with our will, by means of the nicest ones that end up with this difference. Gradually he is giving a change of thought, and society is becoming more and more conscious of a collective care of care. linked with today's discussion, let's say from our team that there are differences and pay-rolls in the custody sector. But at the same time, we believe that they are taking specific measures to end the situation. The real equality is the firm engagement and it's always been. And that's why the surveillance model has been betting for years on changing to a modern society like ours. This is reflected in the 7th Equality Plan for Women and Men, which aims to place life in the centre and give visibility and value to care so that no one has to give up his personal or working life. The Department of Employment and Social Policy has for a long time been developing co-responsibility measures, such as the recent decree by which non-pregnant parents in Euskadi can enjoy a paid leave of up to 16 weeks, or the reduction of days and surpluses for the care of minor children and for the care of elderly or dependent persons. And on that path he will continue to work, because, in fact, the Department of Employment and Social Policy has increased, as we have known in the budgets presented this week, the investment in family policies to further advance in co-responsibility and equality. The Basque Government is preparing a study on caregivers in Euskadi, which serves to develop the caregiver strategy it is already working on and which will bring to this Parliament. The motion adopted in March called for its submission before the end of this year. Well, we're still on time, aren't we, Mrs. Garrido? The Government is working on it. I am not in the mood to repeat myself about the measures being taken, because this is not a new debate, but I see the need to indicate them, because there seems to be nothing being done here and it turns out that much has been done for a long time. Because the Urkullu executive in his parliamentary programme already reflects the commitment to combat wage discrimination and promote effective equality between women and men in the work environment, because it is a priority, and in this regard, we are seeing how different initiatives are developing that lead us in the right direction. As a result of these commitments, the Strategy and Operational Plan of Action to Reduce Wage Breaches in Euskadi emerged, which we, together with the Basque Socialists, advocate in our amendment. It is a strategy that, as you know, aims to place Euskadi among the countries with the lowest wage gap in 2030. The challenges presented by that date, 2030, are to eliminate direct wage discrimination and reduce the indirect wage gap, to reduce occupational segregation, to deepen education from equality and for equality, to support a new social organization of care that redistributes its provision and to sensitize and commit to that goal the whole of Basque society. So, let's let it keep moving forward. Let's give it time, let's see how those challenges evolve. We'll see in 2030 where we're located. And besides, we're already seeing that they're moving forward. So, let's give it, I insist, time. It also has 60 measures, which are concrete measures and, as Mrs Sánchez has said, 280 million for implementation in the first two years. They are tractor measures that will generate and that are already generating necessary and important changes, changes in culture, in co-responsibility. And that, in fact, is not done overnight, on which we agree. But that is why realistic and concrete deadlines are set. Things are going to get better. It's clear that we need to improve, obviously. Of course I do, but things are going to be done. Steps are being taken and that must also be acknowledged. And not by proposing new shock plans will we have to accept them or change the ones we already have. In addition, the Labour Department's Wage Boundary Plan includes a gender perspective to combat labour discrimination in the Labour Inspectorate and in the prevention of labour risks in enterprises and institutions. Yesterday we knew that it will grow in ten more places of inspectors to strengthen equality at work. It has also carried out a diagnosis of the situation of employed persons in the household and a guide to the prevention of occupational risks for them. And another of the measures the Government has to combat this inequality is the specific plan for the Labour Inspectorate of Equal Pay, which they also know well and which combats fraud in the areas of working hours, temporary recruitment and part-time work, which in general affects more women than men. In this regard, the Department of Finance and Economics also decided to incorporate pay equality clauses in public procurement contracts. In addition, there is also a specific group within the Social Dialogue Bureau on the pay gap, which is a space for dialogue. Well, let's take the opportunity to change that situation in that space, to take measures that favor citizens and also help the most vulnerable groups. Because, in addition, it is a table where both institutions and social actors are represented. I think it is also a good place to continue to reach agreements that will compromise us and allow us to move forward. I insist that there are many initiatives being carried out, but let us give time for them to be effective, even more so when cultural change and involvement by the whole of society are required. And, in that sense, we are going to defend the amendment that we have tabled with the Basque Socialists, because we do not support the amendment tabled by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group. First, because we cannot share the statement he makes at point one. We believe in the mixed model and, in addition, many of them are managed by social sector entities. Therefore, we cannot share that statement. Nor point two, when calling for action from a global and strategic perspective incorporating gender perspectives, recognizing the social value of life-sustaining care. Well, that's why we already have the Strategy and Operational Plan for Wage Breaches, which, as I have already told you, has 60 concrete measures that try to address this problem and because we believe that this is the way forward. In point three, they indicate that this shock plan is being carried out and, well, I say to you, we insist that there is this strategy that is very comprehensive and that is also consensual. Don't do this to me, that strategy is very complete and has some very important challenges. And it also has an interdepartmental perspective. So, I think we're going to give that strategy a chance to evolve. And then, aside from that, of course, you are mixing some points here within paragraph three where, as Mrs Sánchez has said, measures are being put in place which are issues that are being dealt with in collective bargaining. Therefore, we will not support them either. And then on item four on providing resources for the shock plan, I insist, I refer to the strategy and plan that we already have, which, moreover, deals with those concrete measures with a clear and concrete budget to carry them out. That is why we in our group are going to support our amendment, because we believe that it does address concrete measures to address the precariousness and the gap in the care sector, because there are plans, there are actions, there are measures that I have not mentioned, and this Government has a clear priority and objective and is on the right track in the fight against inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. In answer time, together Podemos, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u45	Thank you, ma'am. Well, let's see. I thought that I had made this clear in my first speech and explained to you, Mrs Garrido, Mrs Sánchez and Mrs Molina, that we have come today to discuss and put solutions around the care sector in Euskadi. Our proposal is very clear and very concrete. There is a problem of invisibility in the care sector, there are various labour disputes in feminized sectors and this issue needs to be addressed in depth. And what you have done, both with your amendments and with part of what you have said in your speeches, is to remind us of what we already know. It is because your amendments, the two amendments, are based on agreements or initiatives put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos in this House. And I thank you for reminding me of the work my colleagues have done in this House. But Mrs Garrido's amendment mentions the motion on care, a more egalitarian society, tools to put lives at the centre, adopted on March 7, 2019, which is an initiative presented by my colleague Eukene Arana. And the strategy, Mrs Molina, to reduce the government's wage gap, which you are talking about, which you list and which you have read to us, was approved in November 2018 and is driven by several initiatives. And in one of them, February 2018, on gender inequality in the labour market, in the first point, we were talking about implementing an action plan for the elimination of the wage gap, and it was Elkarrekin Podemos. So, I'm not very clear whether you're from Podemos and you don't know it, or whether you're not really interested in taking concrete action. I think it's this second part. In any case, make him look at it, because I am faced with an initiative where you are amending me with initiatives that we had presented. And it must be made very clear that they do have responsibility. When the business side, the affected customer himself, is the public administration, of course they have a responsibility to intervene. And you're talking to me about a strategy, but I'm talking to you about reality. Shock plans are to solve reality. Let us tell the reality to the tens of women, to the hundreds of women who work in residences, with precarious working conditions, charging 900 euros a month. Let us tell them or read them all the actions of the plan, of the strategy against the wage gap. Let's tell them we'll be publishing soon. – which we are in mid-November – we are going to publish a strategy to support people with care. No, let's stop telling them that and implement improvements in their working conditions. That's why we're here. Not to read the work or the agreements we have made, which is very good and I thank you, because it also serves us all to remember what the work of my parliamentary group is in this House. But I don't think we're talking about that. We're talking about solutions. I share with Mrs Kortajarena the reflection she has made on that it is very sad... Because in his interventions I have heard words like "it's a priority", "we share the diagnosis": there is a recognition, but then he won't support any. I do not know whether you, as you are not very clear, still want to consider whether to vote in favour of our proposal. Because, really, what they're doing is they're making amends with our proposals, with work we've already done, and on top of that, they care more to breastfeed to see who's come here to talk or who's come to remember. No, ladies. What needs to be done is to provide solutions to all women who are working in such unworthy conditions. What we can't do is say, "No, no, if we agree, no, if the spirit, if the philosophy..." Well, if we agree, what we have to do is take concrete action. And we do have to make a concrete shock plan. What we can't do is catch and talk about a lot of things. What needs to be done is to start by sector taking concrete action, and that is, or I understand, politics. We're here to transform things, we're here to improve people's lives. Not to read among us all the strategies, actions, plans, that are very good, but that remain on paper. That in the day to day the strategies are not there and what we are telling you is that within that strategy, that of course it is fine, and it may be a coincidence that we in February presented an initiative and you in November will draw a strategy against the wage gap, and it may also be a coincidence that we in March draw an initiative and now, before the end of the year, you will draw a strategy to support the care sector. Everything can be a coincidence, but I think what needs to be done is a shock plan, real, concrete measures. And you have also listed a number of government commitments to us. You were talking about government commitments, which were based on the agreement you signed in 2016, both the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. If those commitments were reflected in that agreement, explain to me why – it may also be a coincidence – it took two years to implement that strategy, why Elkarrekin Podemos had to come to drive a series of initiatives in these sectors. Don't be like that, don't be like that, because this is the truth. And if not, they explain it to me. In conclusion, I'm really sorry. I have heard many times in this House the debate on the issues that had to do with the feminized sectors, where we all agree; we recognize the diagnosis, but then we do nothing, and continue to say that we do. You have an opportunity to support concrete measures, a shock plan to eradicate precariousness, to help all those women who in feminized sectors are doing so badly. And I think it's a good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The representative of the Basque Popular, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I was not going to go out, but, not to repeat, I think the position of the People's Group is quite clear with the first intervention. If some clarification can be made, I think it is appropriate not to disperse, and when We can present this initiative, it will have its reasons, but of course we do not see the need to draw up a shock plan. I believe that this matter has also been discussed recently and that we raised the arguments at that time. We may agree on many points, but not on the solution and not on the substantive issue. Obviously, we are groups with a political position on specific issues that are also very different. On the other hand, I would mention to Mme. First, I remembered, and here I have brought the signed agreement of March 7th, and the agreement was that the government should make a proper strategy and that it was necessary to make a investigation, to make a reflection, to describe reality, a evaluation, and to apply its measures to the budget. Nor is it easy to enter into certain passages, and when we talk about this subject, it is a very wide subject. When we speak of particular matters and particular matters, it is easy to enter, but in other matters... and probably is not the jurisdiction of this legislature. I believe that in some specific respects we can agree. I believe that we have been very critical from this group with the very leadership of this Government in the development of the Social Services Act. I believe that we have also given several shots of ears and recently adopted an agreement in this House on the revision of the decree of residential centres, which was also a decree with many defects and which had clearly skipped the forecasts of the contents of reports prepared by the Government. And, Mrs Molina and Mrs Sánchez, indeed, here too we have had cross-talks. I mean, the same way I was talking to you guys, I was talking to other groups. It is true that there could be a coincidence that you could accept the implementation of the motion referred to in my amendment on care, in which I mentioned the strategy. But, on the other hand, you speak and refer to a plan against job insecurity, and there we agree that it is not appropriate. That debate has already taken place. But as for the strategy and operational plan to reduce the wage gap, you talk about moving forward, and I from the very beginning, and I think that Mrs Molina too, we have had discussions in this regard. It's not an operational plan that we know how it's going, how it's progressing, we don't have an evaluation. It is as if we are talking about the further development of the Social Services Act; there is no need to talk about further development and further progress in the development of the social services of this Act when it has practically not been developed. I believe that there is a lack of information in this respect and we have finally considered it more appropriate to defend our proposed amendment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u48	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Gather EH, Mrs. Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u49	Yes, thank you, ma'am, and good day again. I will give my reason to Garrido, and it is true that in such matters it is better to instruct and not to dissect in the subject, and that what has been brought here today has been a very particular subject, and that is the condition of these women in the care of social services, and their premeditation, which has been brought here. And here it has been discussed by family police, by decree of parental consents, a great deal has been discussed, but very little has been said about the situation of these women, very little has been said. And it's true that some things are very complex, but others are identified, very precise, and have real, efficient, and capable alternatives that can immediately be placed on the table. What they're asking is to put a feminist perspective on the table and put the market criteria aside and place life in the middle of life. And what the government demands is that instead of functioning as an economic agent, as a government, work as a government that encourages a political project in the centre of life, and not as a other economic agent. For, of course, it is true that the attention of the changes which must be given here is shared, but some of us have more to do with each other, which is very clear. And here he's talking about some public responsibilities, and you've said today that they're feminized and pre-premeditated work worlds. Do you think it's acceptable to you to encourage laboring on certain public administrations and other services which are hired in certain districts which govern your political groups? Do you think that's appropriate, according to the contract, for public responsibilities? I don't share it, and I don't think that has little to do with life and care and keeping life in the centre. I think very little. And here we have spoken of the opposite strategy of the man-woman's courtroom, and it is true, but since that strategy has been established, the pay-dog has increased in our service. And one of the elements in the middle of this pay-ala is one of the elements we have here to discuss. Because if not, explain to me, Mrs Molina, Mrs Sánchez or Mrs Garrido, how it will affect the wage gap that more than 5,000 workers from Gipuzkoa residences will face their fourth year of wage freeze, how it will affect that attempt to climb the top five ranking But once again, instead of facing this reality, one chooses to instil it and opts for other strategies, comment on other issues and get out of the way. I find it very curious, Mrs Molina, that you, who on more than one occasion mentioned the Strategy against Wagelessness, who told us that it is very complete, that it is also endowed with resources, has given us 60 of the measures envisaged..., you have drawn the attention that you have not been able to mention any that would affect in particular the group of women to whom this initiative refers. With this, yes, cultural change is indeed needed, but what is needed are also actions and it is necessary above all coherence between what is said and what is done. It is not good to paint the performances as purple varnish, because feminists are not to seem; it does not seem, it has to be. That perspective and the feminist economy must be incorporated in order to bring care to the centre of politics.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u51	Mrs Garrido, I believe that the compromise between the Basque Nationalist Group, the Basque Socialists and the People's Group, in this case, would have been very simple. It was very easy to sign it. I don't think he finally signed it because he didn't want to sign it with the government groups, he just didn't want to. But it would have been very simple and we would have been able to adopt that compromise amendment. You did not want it that way, and we will defend our amendment as a whole. Mrs Kortajarena, we share the feminist perspective, the Socialist Group, of course, if anything has been shown throughout its history, is that it has defended equality between men and women with a layer and a sword. We are also about to fight the wage gap, indeed, and in that line we are and are taking action – I told you – both at the level of the Spanish Government and at the level of the Basque Government. Mrs García, of course, it is not something that has appeared because it is the elaboration of this operational plan for the reduction of the wage gap. I have already told you in my first speech that within the pact of government of the 11th legislature of the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group there was that commitment. It was important for us to fight the wage gap. I have also said in my first speech that, moreover, with the approval of that operational plan, what was agreed in January 2018 was fulfilled within this House. But there is that operational plan against the wage gap, there is. And we don't agree to start making plans now, because today it's in the care sector, tomorrow they'll want the wage gap subplan in the sector I don't know what, the day after tomorrow in another sector... We have a global plan against the wage gap. That is where all the sectors affected by this wage gap are brought in, where we do agree that the care sector is also involved, because it is a very feminized sector, but that is part of that operational plan. It is not necessary to make a subplann to deal with the fight against the wage gap exclusively for the care sector, and within I do not know how long, or within 15 days, you may think of doing another subplann for something else. No, I believe that this is a plan for a global clash against the wage gap that it collects and that it fights in all sectors where that wage gap is actually affected. And that's what already exists and, therefore, no other shock plan or different shock subplane is needed to achieve that goal. And I have also indicated to you that steps are also being taken by the Spanish Government, so we do not believe that the approval of this shock subplane is necessary. And besides, what you do is repeat every certain time, when you don't get an initiative, repeat by changing something, changing a little bit. What they did on March 7 was exactly the same as what they raised today, only today they speak of the shock plan, which is actually a shock subplane within it. Therefore, what we have said is that we believe that it is much more consistent to defend our amendment as a whole, which is in the right direction and that it also states that the Basque strategy in the field of care will be adopted as soon as possible. That is the way and, therefore, that is what we are going to continue to defend without now beginning to approve shock subplanes that today is of a matter and tomorrow to know which ones ask us. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u52	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u53	Yes, thank you. At first, I beg your pardon, Madam Kortha's, for I have not mentioned your correction in the first round, but, well, we are not agreed, of course. When they talk about bringing in the regulatory decree on home help, it is not intended to regulate the working conditions of workers in the sector and, therefore, saying that they are deceiving people. Then they also say that the initiative to revise the residence decree that was passed on 14 October, when not a month has passed, is being implemented. I therefore believe that the adoption of a GNP which calls for the approval of another GNP which was approved three weeks ago seems somewhat sluggish. But, well, if you have nothing more to contribute, then go ahead. Then they also urge the creation of a new Social Clauses Act. There is a law that was passed in this Parliament by a majority in 2016, but of course, it seems that they do not like it and they have to put it in this new amendment. You also go from giving Basque cards to now giving feminist cards, Mrs Kortajarena. Look, start by recognizing that things are done and just keep doing more. Mrs. Garcia, what's bothering you? Do things happen on the part of the Basque Government? Is that what bothers you, that you do it? I think so. I think he's upset about that, that it's an efficient government that watches over people's rights. And, by the way, leaving office, nothing, Mrs Kortajarena. Mrs García says in her initiative that it is very clear and very concrete. Yeah, but it's just not the solution. Take it in. He says that we must give solutions, and of course we must give them, but they are viable and realistic, not as the plan you propose today. And I already assure you that from Podemos I am not, nor will I be, have no doubt. And we already know that you have also come here to give us lessons from the new policy, that until you have arrived we do not know whether we were hibernating or where we were.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u54	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u55	But, judging by the election results, I think society doesn't feel the same way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. After discussion, we'll vote together the original text of the proposition as well as the Podemos. We can vote.(stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u57	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote.(stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u58	So it's not accepted. Next, the correction of the whole EH Collect Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 28; the opposites, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u59	Not accepted. And in the end, Eucabertians and Sociaists of Euzalia will vote for the correction of the whole district which has been introduced by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 36; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u60	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Third point in theme list: "The same proposition as the Parlamentarian Parlamentarian Group made, concerning the exportation of the wines of Errixan, of chacoline, of some cheeses, and of some fish-conservatives, of tax-limits. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Miss Lopez de Octariz, your word is to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative follows the decision taken by the US Administration, led by Mr Trump, to impose tariffs on Spanish agri-food products. The American initiative seeks to weaken the European negotiating position. It responds to an unjust and harmful measure for the Spanish agri-food sector. Oranges that affect especially products such as wines, oil, olives, pig products, cheeses, Spanish products of high economic value as a whole. It should be remembered that the tariff list and the decision to apply it is adopted as a sanction by the United States to those European countries which have helped or granted aid to the American Boeing competitor Airbus. France, Germany, the United Kingdom and Spain are members of the Airbus consortium and therefore the most affected by these rates. Currently, the Spanish market exports 2 billion goods in agri-food products to the United States each year, 300 million euros in wines, 400 million in olive oil. According to the ICES, they are the bulkiest. Greece and Italy are also oil producers, but they are not affected by tariffs, they only affect cheeses and liqueurs in Italy; cheeses, yogurts and jams in Greece. An application of oil tariffs which, as I say to you, will not be applied in Greece and Italy, since the governments of these countries individually negotiated from the minute one with the American authorities and managed to leave out of the rates those products most affected such as, for example, olive oil, which is very important for both of them. Spain has fallen asleep, they have been looking for grapes. And this has caused deep discomfort to the sectors concerned, of wines, as I told them, of oil, of pork, of cheese, of butter, of liqueurs... Both the respective associations and the representatives of many autonomous communities have complained about this application of tariffs to our star products. It has been months since the sectors concerned were aware of the situation that could arise following the announcement by the US Administration to apply these tariffs in October of this year, which have already begun to apply. That the scenario was on the way to seriously harming them and so they transferred it to the Government of Spain and Minister Planas. They passed on to the government their knowledge of the lobby At the last minute, the government joined the Spanish camp's outcry against the tariffs announced by Donald Trump. The Spanish Government called for protection from the European Union, but the European Union was pragmatic in this matter. The situation in Europe is divided in this matter and each country will have to defend its own interests, which have been doing Italy and Greece for months. In this scenario, Spain leaves with a disadvantage. Minister Planas traveled to Brussels in search of protection and came with nothing in his hands. He was repeated what had already been said, that each country had to negotiate individually. We have the most serious problem in Spain, because the tariffs that will apply to us in oil, wine and pig products have been paid in other countries. Therefore, direct competing European countries are going to work, they are going to export under better conditions than us, with which our situation is weak and very bad. Greece did not come out of these negotiations badly either, he told them. In exchange for certain authorisations in defence, gas installations or expansion of the naval base, it has prevented these tariffs from being imposed on it. Italy has also negotiated in the field of defence. From the Spanish agri-food sector, the European Union is required to take decisive measures to curb the imposition of these tariffs on Spain and to express how unfair it is to suffer the consequences of an aeronautical trade war, which breaks the unity of the market, because countries directly competing with Spain in these products, such as Italy, Greece or Portugal, will not be affected by the tariffs. A few weeks ago the minister in office Luis Planas said: "We do not want a commercial war with the United States, but if they start it we will answer and defend ourselves with all our weapons." They will recognize that the tone is chulite, and this tone has been the one that has presided over our relations with the United States. We have only limited ourselves to summoning the US ambassador to Madrid and conveying Spain's frontal rejection of the announced measures. Mrs Celaá also described the sanctions proposed as unacceptable, but we have known this week that the minister has put the batteries on. Better late than never. After seeing that other countries, as I said to them, have released an important part of the tariffs, the government of Pedro Sánchez gave it all to Europe to face Trump's tariffs and it has gone wrong. And now this government seems to be opening up to negotiations. He doesn't want to raise military spending, but there may be other issues, such as letting go of the Google rate, in which he can come to an agreement. And this is where the Basque Government can also enter into this negotiation, because, apart from some of the measures that have been announced, the best thing that can happen to us is to get rid of the tariffs. That's the best thing that can happen to us. And, therefore, both the Basque Government, defending the interests of our products – of our wines from Rioja, of the chacolis, of the cheeses – must work side by side with the Government of Spain to get our products free from tariffs, because otherwise Spanish exports to the United States would fall by 12%. From the People's Group we have presented this initiative, in which we urge the Government of Spain to work to prevent these tariffs from being applied, and to negotiate just as other countries have done. We also urge the Basque Government, where it has an opportunity to participate, to express how harmful the application of these tariffs to our products, especially to our wine from Rioja Alavesa and the chacolis. We also urge the Basque Government, together with other relevant administrations, to seek export alternatives to other countries, as well as promotion at the local, regional and national levels. This is the initiative we are proposing. We believe that we have an opportunity and that we must not let it pass, and that our Government must also stand in the way of the Spanish Government in order to defend our tariff products against the United States. I therefore know that you are working on measures, but the best measure of all is that the tariffs are not applied. Then we'll have to see how we diversify export, but that's the best measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, congressmans, all good days. Today we are discussing a non-law proposal by the People's Group against the arbitrary tariffs imposed by Trump on Spain and, therefore, on Euskadi. How can we oppose such a proposal and how can we create debate on an issue that does not generate debate but consensus? This GNP, in our view, could have been perfectly treated as an institutional declaration and would have been sufficient. How can we be against the fact that the Spanish Government acted together with the European Union to avoid these tariffs? How can we be against our Basque Government protesting in the relevant forums! How to be against looking for other countries for export! How to be against promoting the internal consumption of these products to avoid their dependence on the vavenes of international trade! No one is against this issue, no one can be. We must face the evils which these unjust limits have caused us, and resist the action which the United States have taken. But this discussion would be light. Today, the most unfair term for the frontier, is a cover of the international unfair trade. The agreements of the market are free, and that is not to be said to-day. But there is a close relationship between these two surfaces; the life of the farmers and the markets here and there, that is to say, the breaking up of the population and the markets in the region, their final aim is to dominate them, to favor the principal economic interests. Today's debate, as I say, is not about the non-legislative proposal put forward by the People's Group, which has no debate. The debate is where these tariffs come from, where these additional tariffs come from, which says the no-law proposal, arbitrary, that our group would say. Mr. Trump is said to be a protectionist. But it's not protectionist, it's protectionist just to import, it's not protectionist to export. To export, Mr Trump is a convinced liberal. It's not a problem, this, Mr. Trump's. And I would say that it is not a problem either of the United States, which is who is putting these arbitrary and unfair tariffs on us. The problem today, the debate that is not and that I do not think will be launched here by the groups that are going to support this, is that of international trade, is that of the role of the World Trade Organization today in this world in which we live. Who has authorized these tariffs? The World Trade Organization authorises the United States to apply tariffs to the European Union for products worth EUR 6.9 billion. It is the International Trade Organization that has allowed this injustice against our Basque products. And, therefore, what is under debate today, what should be under debate in this House today are the rules of international trade today, the rules that bless the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party every day in the Eurocamera and in the Congress of Deputies and in all those places where they have the opportunity. The international trade promoted by the World Trade Organization is not fair trade, it is not trade for mutual enrichment. It is a trade for the domination of markets by the powerful, for the destruction of the social and agricultural structures that oppose such domination. And these tariffs that come to us today come from illegal aid given by our European countries to Airbus and, therefore, they are tariffs that are allowing the World Trade Organisation and that make the United States, thanks to the World Trade Organisation, instead of sanctioning the European aeronautical industry, the Basque aeronautical industry, whoever is sanctioning it is the Basque primary sector, because somehow in Basque we can say that we have an aeronautical industry that goes like a shot thanks to illegal aid, and that who is going to pay that good state of the aeronautical industry is the Basque primary sector. Is this fair? No, no, But you have to say, because if not people are not learning anything about what's going on here. What is happening here is that there is a flagrant injustice to our wine, our chacoli and our cheeses. Of course we will, we will vote in favour. But where does this injustice come from? If we talk only about the consequences and do not talk about the causes, we are getting half of the story and, therefore, we will not understand anything about what is happening in the world today with international trade, with the rules of the International Trade Organization. Tariffs are not a problem. Tariffs are simply a tool to compensate for imbalances when trading between unequal markets. Tariffs make it possible to compensate for problems, negative or perverse effects on local communities. The problem is not tariffs, it's unfair and arbitrary tariffs like these. The other problem is that tariffs do not exist, that these are free market agreements, that there are no tariffs. So when we talk here about tariffs being bad, we are introducing a subliminal message that is always the same, that is always the same, that of defending the rules of unfair international trade. We believe that frontier taxes are not guilty, they are a proper instrument to repair the damages that international commerce produces. But they're not suitable, they're inappropriate to repair the damages that arise in the local commerce and local communities. In this case we may say that they are arbitrary and unjust, the limits set by Trumpe, and we must face them all together. And this is our proposition, whether we accept the proposition which the Popular Party has proposed, we shall say yes, but we must proclaim the discourse which lies behind it. It is a light discourse, and we prefer a deep discourse, which is here taking place. Our position, I repeat, will be to support the proposal of the People's Party. We regret that we have not been able to reach a perhaps broader compromise, which could take up all the outstanding issues here, which are that we do not have a problem only with the tariffs imposed by Mr Trump, but that we have a problem with international trade. And as long as we do not face that problem that we have, of course, the solution will be only partial and we will not understand the total complexity of the issue that we are dealing with right now in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u64	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. The representative of the EH team, Mrs Lopez de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u65	Bai, eskerrik asko, Tejeria andrea. For my kidneys, this walking down the stairs is not very good, but it doesn't matter, I take it in humor. Someone has to fall down the stairs. Of course, it is a bit pretentious to try from this House to change international trade agreements and rules. I wish he could! I, of course, think it's a good time to keep debating. In fact, a few days ago, barely two or three weeks ago, we were talking about the same subject at the General Councils of Álava, bringing the tariffs to the General Councils of Álava. I would like to tell Mrs López de Ocariz today that, first of all, we would have to focus the camera a little more, like approaching it a little more. Because we're talking about Trump, about the United States, about that market... Today I'm going to focus a little more on the local market, because seeing the picture we have in the world, the truth is that not only do my legs shake because I almost fall down the stairs, but my legs shake because I see Trump and the United States making a cold trade war and trade agreements that panic me. Of course, they sell us uncertainty, they sell us zero stability, they sell us a fight for raw materials and, in fact, the gap is growing among the poor, who are becoming poorer, who do produce raw materials but who do not keep the profits, and who do not produce raw materials, in fact, keep the profits. That gap between poor and rich is getting bigger and, of course, we could also say that hunger is getting bigger for those people it produces. That's the first sector we have in the world at first sight. And if we approach it here, a few years ago we were being sold the liberalization of markets like the panacea, we were being sold the liberalization of quotas like the panacea. The milk, the beet, all those things that in a few moments to hold, to say in a way, the market and to protect it, to liberalize it, the only thing that was achieved was that everyone would win as much as they could. In this, the Basque primary sector did not play on equal terms. He's lost, he's helpless, and I think that up there the picture: a primary sector that's getting worse and worse. I think that, of course, is not the fault of Trump or the United States, but the lack of courage and the lack of action of different governments. You said Spain has fallen asleep. I wish he'd slept a few days ago. Spain has been asleep for many years and, in fact, its primary sector has nothing more to do with how it goes backwards and how it is leading or inciting the depopulation of rural areas. When we talk about the subject of US tariffs, we must say that it is true, that they have put 25% to production – I say wine, but we must also not forget the chacoli, which is important. We understand that a skinny dog is all fleas, that is, what was missing. Wine and the wine sector are already looking at how to handle or how to put labels, because with it putting 14% there is no longer a tariff. So the damage to the wine sector is going to be relative. But, well, the chacoli is going to need support, and fast. All that, what do we have? The European Union, a European Union that sold us as a panacea a few years ago: the European Union is going to be a common market, for all there is going to be union, we are going to fight... It has not been at all that, it has been a fraud, and I would say that much worse, is that Trump negotiates as a great businessman lies the European Union, in a technocratic way, one could say, but of course he does not face all this. The United States conditions the European Union, first, because it wants to, but, second, because it can. As simple as that. So, more instability, more uncertainty and, what do we have here? A moment ago Mr Tellería said in this very attril that EH Bildu when he talks about food sovereignty, about food autarchy or something. No, it's as simple as trying to boost local consumption, reaffirming local consumption. The United States drinks 72% of its wine. Here we drink 12%. We are not talking about putting food sovereignty out of the air, that is, we are not going to drink all the wine. Of course not, but we have a lot to do and that the gap is very long and very high and, indeed, there is a lot to do, and the drop in consumption is already taking place, indeed, on the table, that is so. So, as a huge growth potential, for now we have it in here, also out, how not. We have the United States, we have a lot of countries and we have another problem, that wine and chacolí, in this case, are very price sensitive products. That's right. The demand fluctuates depending on the price, that's how it is. And these products cannot compete, and less so when we have a designation of origin, a Rioja brand that is becoming weaker and increasingly losing more active, to say the least. This morning I was trying to buy a wine online, which I don't usually do, I don't know how you look almost, but I tried, and then I started looking and I found a raise for 3 euros and a reservation for 2015 for 4,09 euros. I want to say that as long as these wines are worth this price, we will hardly be able to send them to the United States and that people have them as quality. Why? Because in Rioja right now quality... well, let's put it a little in doubt, it's betting on quantity, it's betting on internationalization, but it's not betting on differentiation and that sometimes very well called excellence. Of course we have to act in a global way, but here we will have to ask the Spanish Government, the European Union – which is leaving a little behind – and, of course, the Basque Government. But I'll tell you one thing. I believe that on 4 October the motion is presented at the General Councils of Álava. It was requested by urgent procedure, accepted and debated at the time. We arrived here today and it's not urgent at all. Moreover, I think it is not only unambitious but I think it is even lowered. Well, I think it's down. Because I also brought it, because I thought I'd read it. Of course, I'm not going in to read it. It has four points, those of today, which are absolutely a declaration of intent. It makes me feel a little sorry. It makes me feel a little sad because in Álava, in the General Councils, it is more ambitious than in this house, which really is where you have things to do, because it makes me feel a little sad, but good. I am going to assess a little what has already been done because, in fact, the opposition always has three options. We can say things when they are done well and, in this case, I believe that approving today's motion to the Government is comfortable because, in fact, what has already been done is simple. Even when things are done wrong they are said and it is, we are opposition, that's why we are. And the third, which is always a three, is that we come here to propose things. And in this case, Euskal Herria Bildu proposes that we will respect the sector, we will talk to them – I know that Mrs Tapia, in fact, has already met with them – and make visible the sector, which is always necessary. In fact, it's a priority. When we talk about diversifying markets, in fact, we have the United States, a market that today is not the panacea, it is the third market after Switzerland and I think Germany, not the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom, Switzerland and the third is the United States. A market that can be very juicy in the future, but at the moment, beehives are not being played in the U.S. market. He said that his motion is a little short today because, first of all, he calls on the Government of Spain to take the necessary measures to prevent the imposition of tariffs. Avoiding tariffs is not in the hands of the Government of Spain. I wish he was, but I don't think he is. The second: "To urge the Government to express its opinion, judgement and affection in all forums where it has the opportunity to participate". Not only do we have to ask, but I pretend they do. I mean, I have no doubt that they do. I have no doubt. In the third: "Parliament urges the Basque Government to agree with the various administrations on all possible actions for export to other countries, as well as the promotion of domestic consumption at local, regional or national level". I think that we absolutely share that point. We insist on talking about the internal market. We have a lot of growth capacity there, we're going to leave the outside for the moment as far as we can. And the last one: "The Basque Parliament will refer this agreement to the European Union, the Basque Government and to parliaments and sectors". I think it's a little bit. I would have stayed with the motion we passed in Álava, which, of course, has nothing to do with this one. We are talking about concern, we are talking about rejecting these tariff measures, we are talking about defending the maximum involvement of the economic and commercial interests of all the agri-food products that are in danger, to say the least. Well, that was six points, incentivizing domestic consumption... I'm sorry because today we're practically on a statement of intent. I will tell you, I will be honest, that it has cost me a lot to decide whether we are going to support or abstain because, indeed, whenever we talk about the production sector, any measure, even if it is expired, is always good. Then I still have doubts. I hope to see if there's a replica shift and if not, then I don't know. I'm gonna go check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u66	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Passing over to the uncorrected teams, Euskal Socialists, Mr Price, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u67	President, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative before us today has one head, one sole head. It is called Donald Trump and is the policy of destabilization in many segments of public life, of international life, in this case of commercial relations. And, therefore, although we have heard many things here and – there are nuances, there are different opinions when it comes to addressing this issue – I hope that we all share that the responsibility for a measure as harmful as Donald Trump has put forward is his responsibility and, obviously, to the extent that it affects us – and it affects us a lot, because it acts in an important way about our commercial activity – it is good that this Parliament has a pronouncement. A pronouncement for which, beyond the sheet, for what I have heard in the various interventions, there are many points of coincidence. There may be those who think that they should have gone further, there may be those who think that the procedure could have been another, not necessarily a PNL, but an institutional declaration, but, well, beyond the form or pretensions that are not written today, what is being asked of this House is that we rule on the non-law proposal of the People's Party, which reflects well what needs to be done, because look if it reflects well, which is what is being done. Indeed, since the emergence of this problem, the Government of Spain has taken letters on the matter, both Minister Luis Planas and all other members of the Government in office; let us hope that in a short period of time the Government will be fully and in addition, the progressive Government. Well, he took the lead in trying to stop this avalanche that was coming to us, very specifically to the wine sector and to the chacolí sector. The United States represents the third market for the Spanish and it also represents the third market for the Rioja sector. In the case of chacolí is our first market and, therefore, this market is very important for the Basque interests of the wine sector. And, well, it seems quite reasonable that we should say that we must face up to these tariffs, that we must also look for other markets, that we must try not to be hostage to single or majority markets. That, indeed, as has been pointed out here, there are many contradictions in international trade and, therefore, we must be constantly seeking the diversification of markets, as well as the diversification of products, because it is the way to compete more and better throughout the world for a society that is economically as exportative as ours. There is an inter-agency collaboration between the different administrations, which is also reasonable, because it is a problem that affects us all equally, regardless of how we carry them out institutionally. And, therefore, it is good that a certain amount of relief or criticism has been raised in some speeches, but beyond those elements which are, as I have said, a little bit of rascal, the fundamental thing is that this Parliament today has reasons for unanimously moving this political position forward, and I hope that this will be done. And therefore, as has been seen, we have not tabled any amendments in this respect. It seemed to us to be the initial operative approach taken by the People's Party, and that is what we are going to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u68	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u69	Ma'am, chief of staff, members of the legislature, good morning again. Despite the coup that is already assuming the decision of the US Government, authorized or not by the WTO, but the decision has been exclusively made by the United States Government, in terms of the environment of this Parliament, this non-legislative proposal is not complex to me because, for once, the Basque Government is not reproached for its position, but rather that, in essence, it praises the promptness of its action in the face of a very serious problem, which is unquestionable, and that is why we believe that it must be supported. Councilwoman Arantxa Tapia, already on 7 October, shortly after the threat of the President of the United States and within the framework of the sectoral conference on agriculture, expressed her concern and valued the economic impact of the measure on the food sector at €7.6 million. And on the 10th, the same day that this GNP is presented – which, in any case, respects it, but has an opportunistic tufil – the Economic Development Advisor, with her team, met with the representatives of the food sectors concerned. And the first action that was determined at that meeting was the creation of a support office for wine excellence, which has come to be called Wine Basque Wine Office and that for the moment it will be operational until the end of the year, in order to strengthen the strategies of the wineries of Rioja Alavesa and of the three denominations of chacolí, which they are carrying out in the state and international market. In addition, there are other measures, actions, to maintain exports to the United States, diversify markets, enhance reverse visions and strengthen public aid. That is, a package of measures to help at the same time as the problem arises. All that in a few days. They will accept me that, although the Government always does, this time it is so obvious that, even if it costs them, they have to acknowledge that it has been acted swiftly and effectively. That is why this debate is about strengthening the leadership role that the Basque Government is already playing, as well as calling on the Spanish Government and the European Union to apply in a matter that is their responsibility. It is not surprising that in the European Union itself – and this really has drawn my attention to this – there are countries that are penalised for tariffs and others are not, which means that competition is dominated by the arbitrary action of a third country, in this case the United States, whose measures are going to create an internal focus of tension in the European Union that no one at the moment seems to want to tackle. This unfair internal competition can lead to misadjustments that the European Union itself must resolve promptly and cause the US presidency to renounce the use of blackmail methods to break the unity of the EU. That is why the Spanish Government, which is the government which sits on the Councils of the European Union, is being called upon to resolve as soon as possible a matter which, if it lasts, can provoke a conflict of difficult resolution within Europe and which, worst of all, uses Basque producers, in this case, as hostages to their blackmail policies. No winegrower in Rioja Alavesa or any Basque chacolinero are responsible for tariff and other barter trades that are being tortically managed around the world due to irresponsible actions, more typical of chameleons than of state people, but it is they who are suffering the conclusions of these unjustified actions. Having said that, and although it is true that if the situation is to be chronicled, work will have to be done to find new export markets, expand existing ones and deepen the internal market, I believe it is appropriate to prevent proposals which, without criticising the Basque Government, which cannot do so because they have no reason to do so, suggest changing the policy of internationalisation and the policy of promoting internal marketing in Euskadi. Look, in the case of internationalization, the Government has been supporting market diversification policy for many years, with the aim, inter alia, of minimizing risks. But at the same time it logically leaves it up to the operators to decide which markets to go to, which is logical, because otherwise the wineries would be responsible to the Basque Government for having taken precedence over a given country. We would be restricting the wineries their ability to choose freely the country or countries to which they want to contribute. The US tariff is not a cause, it is a cause that has arisen, which is not the fault of the operators or of the Basque Government, even if one might think so. And doing campaigns to increase the internal consumption of our wines is starting to be tiring, because you have the documentation of the multitude of campaigns, which annually organize the government and the deputies, of internal consumption. And they fail, they don't sell everything we want, we don't have all the percentage we want. But they forget a variable, the consumer. The consumer, there are territories he chooses, other wines and not these. So, you can't rate the campaign as bad because it hasn't increased enough. And we always forget about the citizens, we always blame the institutions, the governmental organizations, and we don't think that citizens are free to choose and go to the country we want, consume the meat we want and drink the wine we want most. Having said that, I can only summarise that the United States Government has taken an unfair and arbitrary decision, which puts our wine producers in a delicate position, as their American market is relatively important to many wineries. The Spanish Government, as a participant in the EU decision-making bodies, must try to tackle the problem as soon as possible. And the European Union itself must act promptly and decisively, while asymmetry has been generated among European producers, which breaks down sacrosanct equality of treatment and can lead to a medium-term conflict of greater magnitude. In the meantime, I conclude: the Basque Government has acted and I know that it will continue to act speedily, effectively, in the face of the consequences, which are what matters. The causes are certainly important, but they should be analysed in another debate, in which we are analysing the consequences of a country's decision. And what we are asking of the Government, I insist, is to continue as it has been, that we know that our group, of course, and that the sector concerned, is very grateful for its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u70	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing it to the turn of the answers, the representative of the American Basque Group, from the same day Mrs. l'Epez de Ocarariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u71	Yes, thank you, Madam President. If you'll excuse me, from the seat. Firstly, to thank the groups that support the initiative. Secondly, I wanted to tell Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe that I have reviewed the amendment you have tabled. It differs from mine in very little, there's some word that doesn't, but it's, come on, comas and little more. So, if you wanted anything else, you had the opportunity to incorporate it. But, in any case, what we are talking about here is not opening up a debate on international trade in general, which will be a very interesting debate, but at another time. We have a problem that affects the primary sector and we bring it to the House. There are ways and means of avoiding tariffs, as other countries have done, and I believe that the pressure that the whole sector has done at the level of Spain, with the Government of Spain, has in some way led to the opening of negotiations with the United States. And today we have an open negotiation with the United States. So, that's good. And it is also good that the autonomous communities join in that negotiation, and that is why we urge that our autonomous community also participate there and contribute in what is opportune to defend our products and that we can also avoid tariffs on our products, which we believe, apart from other measures that can be taken ex post facto. So, well, I would encourage you to vote in favour, because I think we have put forward, we have put forward a problem of the primary sector in this House, we believe that there are avenues for solution and that is what we have done. Is that gonna be too little for you? You have had the opportunity to do so in the amendment. I, in view of the amendments, think they are very similar, and they are three points in yours too, and we ask the same thing. Therefore, nothing more. To thank, again, the groups that support the initiative. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra must not have the word. The representative of the EH Group, yes, Mme. Lopez de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u73	Nothing. I only use two minutes and this time I haven't fallen, that is, not so bad, I've reached the safe and sound attril. First, we have recognized the work of the Government. I believe that has become clear, and Euskal Herria Bildu has no complex to recognize. That's it, that's it. Without throwing out many more flowers, because it hasn't been for more either. No more. Because the situation of Rioja Alavesa, of course, will not deny that it is not buoyant. Just one thing, in 1991-95 there were 700 family cellars, today there are 200. I think that's down. I think. They said that we are free to choose, in fact, what we want to drink and what we don't want to drink. Yeah, we're free for now, until the tariffs come and we have to pay them. No more, Mrs. López de Ocariz. He says I've had a chance. I am a little hurt, because I have not had the opportunity, not for nothing, but because at the General Councils of Álava there was an agreement between Podemos, the People's Party and Euskal Herria Bildu, which I have here, signed by the three parties, and today I arrive here and not only do I find that you have negotiated with the government, but we have not even had the opportunity to put in a sentence. I mean, we haven't even had a chance to negotiate. So, I'm a little sorry. I've thought about it. Yes, of course we will support it, because it does not say anything or condition us to anything. But, of course, I would appreciate a little more political empathy, rather than partisan use. And that's all, because we're always willing, we're always willing to give a hand, to participate and, of course, if we have to leave hairs in the catera, we leave them without any complex. So, well, thank you and, indeed, we are going to vote, even though we have not had the opportunity to negotiate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u74	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialist doesn't have to speak. Eubertarians, Mr. Telllería, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u75	Thank you, ma'am. Very fast. Just to clarify. First, man, if you don't let me throw flowers at the government today... That you do not want, yes, but I, bouquets of flowers today, because everyone agrees that you have done well. And what have you done right? In the face of an event, there are consequences and those consequences are being addressed. And today we come to talk about it. I insist that the larger or smaller causes, the WTO, the TTIP... By the way, agreement with which there was one person and two organizations against, were EH Bildu, Podemos and Trump. They were the three who were against that agreement, which perhaps today would have led us to another situation other than these tariffs. And, without further ado, to throw some flowers back at the government, to say that it has done well and that we will support the proposal, because we believe that it is reasonable. Indeed, it does not differ too much from that proposed by EH Bildu. They are very similar, but the General Councils and the Basque Parliament, Mrs Lopez de Arroyabe, each make their decisions in their own context. It is not, as you have said, that progress is made more in General Councils than in this house, which is where there are things to do. There are things to do at both. You said that sentence textually and, look, I'm just gonna tell you one thing. Throughout this debate I have been counting on it. In your group, in your seats, there have not been six Members of Parliament who have been listening to this debate. I think you have more to worry about in your group to move your interest in the agricultural sector. Don't talk about the others, look at them in there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u76	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the discussion has ended, we shall put the original text of the proposition of Euskalia, like the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u77	So, unanimously, the original text has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Pull up the proposition as a parlamentary group, in order to make sure that domestic workers are properly colicing in Social Security, in order to take hasty measures. Discipline and final resolution. It's yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u78	Good noon to all, and particularly good noon to the members of the staff of the House of Biscay who came to follow this discussion. Durango's feministic activities were installed by his friends at the Road. Mr. Telleria, you don't care about housewives, it seems. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u79	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u80	Durango's feministic activities were installed by his friends at the Road. The aim was to feel instinctively over those who worked as an intermediary and to create empathy for women who participate in experience. A dresser and a mirror were installed and the women who participated in experience put on the uniform of an interna. We could have taken a picture of it if we wanted. And at first I took the proposition half laughing. But the laughs became awkward because he was wearing that suit because he was spending a long time with me. The other women, who passed before me, when they saw me dressed, humiliated me by their looks, and I began to feel small. And I did that empathy, and I remembered how those women in my hometown, in their yellow suit, go out into the streets to walk around and buy a newspaper or a newspaper of the best-dressed children. That was what they were doing in the street, and I watched them for more than five minutes, but I felt that sensation in five minutes. And the worst is not that their masters or masters compel them to put on such clothes, the worst part is that the whole system does nothing to overcome dissecrations, humiliations, or contempts. This government, who is extremely fond of speaking of wages, ought to determine who she is talking about; put on her face, and put employments on women who suffer this condition. And domestic workers are one of the most important examples of their invisibility, of their direct and indirect discriminations. On March 8 the feminist movement had made public in the social pact, he spoke of co-activating the care of life and reorganizing the care of care of care. He called for worthy pensions, for the defence of the land, or for the rights of the workmen at home. They were in the foreground. Do you have any idea how many times are the employees of the house who work at work on the heavy government strategy, 241? Just once. But not to speak expressly of their condition, but to improve others. For he says: "To strengthen the support lines of hiring children under three years of age, to promote their life, their family, and their work's co-operation, and to promote the production and legalization of jobs in the community of the workers of the house." The disseminatory situation in the domestic labor field, the state of slavery in many its inhabitants... What's the use of talking about pay money? Because this system is to obtain the execution of some women, to obtain the necessary execution, it is necessary to leave them behind other women, because they are a pure example. We must repeat the oppressions which are repeated around the underlying conditions of domestic workers. I shall bring some consequences from a work which this government has encouraged, and the results of so many collective researches. Yes, I want to remark that this government does some diagnosis about domestic workers, but then leaves them aside and does not include them in the integrated, or in some other way. They are not the ordinary workers of the community, and this is the problem, and it shows clearly that this parsce. Studies from the research he named in 2011 show that the ratio of the number of hours worked to the hourly wage is not directly proportional. Overtime is not taken into account, nor is the 3 % increase in seniority taken into account. Night work should have a special cost, as should employees working in care; they should, but they do not. On many occasions it is still the employee who assumes the full cost, even when the obligation is for the contracting person, the cost of being discharged into social security. We still have testimonies from women who ensure that they feel obliged to sign what the contracting party establishes, the hours, the wages, the tasks to be performed, the type of day... although, after the signature, alternative conditions are more demanding or less advantageous than those stipulated in the written contract. Many do not have written confirmation of working conditions, and it is worth noting the situation of foreign women, practically all of them, since for them the provision of a written contract is essential for the regulation of their situation and the availability of documentation. According to ATH data, in 2018, 42% of those working up to five hours a week were not discharged in Social Security, which is favored by the disproportionate wage received to the quota to be paid. And in 2019 it gets worse, because the minimum quota has increased by a 25%. A number of issues arise at the time of the contribution, and the main one is the lack of awareness of the social security system and the lack of awareness of the obligation to contribute, and when doing so, of how to do so. The 2011 diagnosis concluded that the problem lies at the heart, in the very conception of domestic employment. I quote: "It is possible to begin to be more demanding with the sector in general and to bet on minimizing current misadjustments". The proposal which we have brought here today wants to take a step in that sense. From 2011 to 2011, it is true that the situation has changed quite a bit, for they paid up to 2011 a fixed fee in Social Security, and in 2012 the necessity of classification is radically changed. Compliments based on wages rates are determined and so we need to calculate quotas based on the minimum salary due to working hours, or if they exceed that, depending on the pay rate they have. As to this fundamental obligation, though there is no excuse to comply with it, the Social Security ought to inform the employers that the changes of wages ought to be made known to the Social Security itself, which is the object of the interrogation of female workmen, if wages are above the minimum. But the government, the Spanish government, has done nothing to adjust the corporate settlements. If the pension of social security had been directed to all families where a person has been hired to express the salary and hours of a month, we would not have been certain to be in the situation we are in, but it has not been designed to facilitate the real social organisation without the management of our employers, and not the administration itself to guarantee the criteria of socialisation. We've been over and over and over again that the Lavenge can't interfere in the privacy of the house. The introduction of contracts, pay, and updated quote documentation is not even required. The fact is that Social Security has at first acknowledged that it has limited itself to collect a quotas on the soliment of years, applied to these wages by means of a system of cooperation, and in how much smaller assembling than the least pay due to it, or even when it brought it. This remarkable neglect of their legal responsibility has not occurred in an isolated case or in a couple of cases. The situation has been observed in all cases discussed by the community of domestic workers in the gym and Biscay. Social Security has already made a necessary complaint, but it is a problem that the ground has been adjusted from the moment of the complaint, and not as it was to be done by detergents, and social security has worked after a complaint, and not by profession. But do you really think that most of the domestic workers would dare to study their condition on one side, and accuse it on the other? They're not interested people who have to go to Administration and denounce their own private condition. It's financial, social security, which should be employed in all cases by trade, by reviewing and updates of stocks. We must remind ourselves that the only employment that can be done without reason is that of the house's workmen, the most hopeless. The household employment sector has the lowest wages in the entire economy, and also the only one that does not generate unemployment benefit. The care system cannot rely indefinitely on the support of a group of women workers who deliberately and through discriminatory legislation are kept in conditions of poverty, vulnerability and under-protection. We found out last week that the inspector was planning to meet an international specialist in order to face the payer. We don't know what we're talking about today, but we've tried to put this performance into the government as a household work that's being worked on in the Basque Country, and that's what they're asking loudly for. Nevertheless, it seems as if the groups supported by the government did not see the necessity of it, because it is already done, but it is evident that if we look at the accusation and the diagnosis. This time we're not talking about a part-personist who doesn't want to be polite or we're not talking about the shameful behavior of vampires who use the gaps of the law. What we have before us is the public policy of establishing watch on the shoulders of women, and especially on the shoulders of women who are in the greatest degree of impecunity. If we were to compare the domestic tasks with other works, the cost of families which require them would be impregnable, and the state would not take a step to ensure the rights we have to provide for them all, and to preserve them by quality. We need radical policies for life and the public and private alliance that will be prepared for it; it doesn't seem like it's going to get ahead today, but we're gonna wait for it in the conference shift of the teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u82	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning again, everybody. The working conditions of the domestic workmen are still disturbing, although these questions have frequently been discussed in the legislature. As I was telling you, the working conditions of domestic workers have long been on the table. Many times the workers have come to this House to appear, and today we have them both in here and by their working conditions, a while ago, out there. And they do so because of their decent working conditions and because the law is enforced. So my first words are to greet them and to thank them for the work they do, because it is an indispensable job for life and because they are valued little or nothing. And that is precisely why the EH Bildu Group has brought to the debate today, because Mrs Etxebarrieta puts us on the table one of the demands of the domestic workers, and we cannot do anything other than to support it, because it is not very normal for us to allow first-class workers to continue to exist and second-class workers. A collective that in Euskadi encompasses about 100,000 workers, mostly women, whose working conditions, in addition to being precarious, have much less protection than the rest of the workers, despite some achievements obtained in the last decade at the cost of years of claims and struggle of the workers in the sector. In the approaches that we have always advocated from Elkarrekin Podemos is the descarization of women workers and, in particular, women who perform this work in the field of the home. It is a priority for us, first of all, because we believe that the distribution of care and jobs is indispensable. And secondly, because they are simply hired salaried workers and, as such, they must have the same rights as the rest of the workers, regardless of whether their work is generating or not of surplus value, regardless, in the end, of whether these jobs belong to the field of care, regardless of whether they do not do so with the productive part of the system. They are workers and workers and therefore have to have the same rights. We also understand that women workers, the fundamental premise in the employment of domestic workers, must be in the General System with the same protection as all other workers. In this sense, our group already works in the Congress of Deputies, as it has done in this House. We also understand that there is an important invisibility and a devaluation of domestic work and care work, as we have had the opportunity to discuss a while ago. It responds to a socio-laboral model that does not fit what we defend from Elkarrekin Podemos. The women's dedication to reproduction work is not the result of biological innateness, but the result of the social construction of gender differences, which turns women into female subjects oriented primarily towards reproduction work and men into male subjects focused basically on production work. Such a process of socialization is embedded in differentiated stereotypes and life possibilities for both genders, positioning women in a situation of subordination to that of men, since in this differential socialization of gender it is achieved that these differences become inequalities and that, in addition, they remain invisible. Reproductive work deserves to be valued and quantified, the work of care must be undertaken by society as a whole and not only exclusively by the majority of women. And we could talk about many other debates, which are well known in this House, about special contribution schemes, because, for starters, they are below what they charge. But I do not want to dwell on the technical details, because I understand that this is not the case in this debate, and because Mrs Etxebarrieta has already adequately explained what these terms are and I do not want to repeat myself. We also know that there has been debate on numerous occasions and that there are among all the parties that are here, at least in the speech, as happened in the previous point, at least in the speech, great coincidences. I would like to think that there is no one who is going up to this court today to deny that it is essential to change the laws that chronicle this series of injustices. But I do want to dwell on the consequences of these steps not being taken, of not reaching agreements, of not taking the relevant measures even though we are reaching agreements. And I want to stop, because the domestic workers, who break down by cleaning stairs, taking care of our sons and daughters or, ultimately, taking care of the tasks and care of many of the families in this country, are having a hard time. Because it's a painful job, because you play health. And what do they have in return? Often ill-treatment, low wages and an absolutely uncertain future. What do they find, what situation do they find overnight? With the fact that many times for getting pregnant or being sick they are fired, they have no right to unemployment and above Lanbide cuts off their GIR. What's your day to day? Since the word of the employer always prevails over their voices and because they cannot, many do not have access to the Labour Inspectorate to report violations of rights, and that is a problem, a problem that 100% of us cannot solve from Euskadi with our competences and with our reality, but it is a problem that we have an obligation to address in order to urge that it be resolved. That is why we want and believe that it is mandatory to defend the integration of the ordinary social security system. It doesn't make any sense to stay the way we are. We know that there have been decisions in budgetary negotiations that can co-ordinate the political will of this group, but believe me, they have no room. We want and we will continue to work for this to happen without delay. Addressing care is indispensable as a country challenge, as a country challenge, as a collective responsibility, because this must be taken out of the private sphere at once. And our contribution to this debate, to complement what the representative of EH Bildu has proposed, is the demand for compliance with the agreement reached in this Parliament in June 2018, for which we believe we are late and bad. It is almost, it is almost a year and a half, and that is in our hands, to comply with the agreements that we ourselves as a Parliament have. And in this I do want to stop. And I want to stop because it is your responsibility, Mrs San José, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, or of those who remain listening to me. And you're not doing enough and you can't expect it anymore. You had several obligations and all of them are unfulfilled, you are unfulfilled and you are going to be very late, although it seems to be coming, to hand over the diagnosis of the situation of female domestic workers, who should have been here almost a year ago and is not moving forward, and we are not moving forward. But in addition to that, there are other non-compliances that do not even appear among those you see as obligations. And that, obviously, can't be. Women domestic workers are working people and deserve our full protection. And they deserve to have their labour rights intact, not as if they were second or third-rate workers; not as if they were less valid or, of course, less important. That is why we believe that the proposal that Mrs Etxebarrieta has brought us today is sensible and that we will support. Irrespective of that, as regards the amendment that the groups supporting the Government have brought to us today, we agree with part of what they are proposing. But it seems to us, for a change, insufficient, is not enough. We have to keep working. And we understand that the proposal presented today by EH Bildu is a good one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u84	Yes, thank you, President. Today we are discussing household workers' contributions. At the plenary session we have discussed on numerous occasions the working conditions of female domestic workers; in particular, we discussed it at the plenary sessions on 2 February and 30 May 2017, and also on 7 June 2018. Today we do it again. In the intervention I made in February 2017, I referred to how legislation concerning female domestic workers had changed over the years, being the first legislation of 1985 and producing the fundamental change in 2011, and that started the steps for the equalization of the rights of female domestic workers with the workers of the general scheme in a gradual way. And we are talking about the importance of ratifying ILO Convention 189 of 16 June 2011 and ILO Resolution 201. They recognize domestic work as any other work and ensure that domestic workers are treated on an equal footing with other workers in each country. And in the compromise amendment, then signed with the support of the Basque Nationalist Group, Basque Socialists, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, the Government of the State was urged to proceed with the ratification of both for their subsequent transposition into state law. The People's Party did not support this point of the compromise amendment, but it was approved with the support of the other political groups in the House. And we continue to believe in the need to carry out that ratification. And that is despite the fact that many of the issues covered by the 2011 reform are covered by this Convention 189. That is why the PSOE programme of the 2019 general elections, of the two, reflects the commitment to ratify ILO Convention 189, with the aim of consolidating the equal labour and social security rights of persons, the vast majority of whom are women, who work as domestic workers. On the other hand, and since the last study on the conditions of domestic workers had been conducted in 2011, it was considered important to address two issues. To carry out this diagnostic report on the situation of female domestic workers in the Basque Autonomous Community, including female workers and employers, and on the needs to which they provide coverage. I would like to point out that the agreement of 7 June 2018 is being developed. Osalan has submitted the required studies to the Department of Employment, and the Department of Employment and Social Policy has made the corresponding changes. That is why we believe that it is not urgently necessary to demand compliance, because it is already prepared. A guide to the prevention of home work risks has also been developed from Osalan. But it wasn't the only performance. The Department of Labour and Justice, in this legislature, has carried out various actions, and information campaigns have been carried out from the Basque Government for both employees and employers. An example is the publication of the Basic Guide for the Prevention of Occupational Risks for Domestic Workers, prepared by Osalan, and the First Congress on Domestic Employment, organized by the Department of Labour and Justice on 3 and 4 October this year in Bilbao. Proceedings continue since the Labour Inspectorate to monitor working conditions, as well as to monitor the activities of employment agencies in the household workers sector. And complaints from any affected worker are dealt with. At the initiative of the EH Bildu group, it is requested, in its first point, that Parliament urge the Government of Spain to immediately establish mechanisms for the legal contribution according to the minimum wage, established for each working day, both this year and that which corresponds retroactively to previous years. And we do not consider it necessary for what I shall say below: the interprofessional minimum wage, as its own name indicates, marks the legal gross minimum wage that all professionals, including household employees, will receive for the activity performed. Its value takes as reference the full day of 40 hours per week and 14 hours paid and is fixed annually by means of a royal decree. Through Royal Decree 1462/2018, published on December 21, last year, the Government fixed that the minimum wage for female household workers in 2019 is 900 euros gross per month, distributed in 14 pay, with an increase of 22.3% of the previous year, that is, in 2018 it was 735.09 euros, that is, it was the year when there was a greater increase in that salary. In addition, in the case of female domestic workers working on an external basis, if their employment relationship is less than 120 days, the minimum wage will reach 7.4 euros gross per actual hour of work and should include the proportional share of holidays and extra pay. That is to say, since January 2019, at least the minimum wage of the annual calculation is guaranteed, below which no discount is possible for wages in kind, maintenance and accommodation. And therefore, we see no sense in the proposal being made. On the other hand, we do not see that retroactive effects on contributions have to be made. It is that, moreover, you are asking for something that goes against what is laid down by the regulations in force, because employers cannot, outside the voluntary period of payment, pay any kind of contributions with retroactive effects, because the regulations in no case allow it. Therefore, only retroactive payments could be made through clearance records drawn up by the Labour Inspectorate, so what you are asking for makes no sense. In the second point of the transactional amendment, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government of Spain to establish new labour regulations that do not discriminate against employees in the household and care sector. We are not talking here about two different regulations. On the one hand, there is the special system of domestic workers, which has been in force under the General Social Security Regime since 1 January 2019. On the other hand, there are regulations in the care sector. The regulations of the care sector... a specific regulation was adopted in 2011, almost at the same time as the regulations for domestic workers were adopted. The People's Party left it in suspense for years, but those contributions for caregivers by the government of Pedro Sánchez have been recovered in January 2019. In point three, the Basque Government is urged to immediately launch a specific campaign to inform women workers and strengthen the permanent work of the Labour Inspectorate, but, as I have already indicated, this is already being done at the moment, and we do not see any need for this either. And at the fourth point in the compromise amendment, I have already said throughout my speech that it is being implemented. That is why we will support the amendment to the whole tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group, where the Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain to ratify the 189 Convention on Domestic Workers of 2011, and also to continue to inform workers of their contribution rights and employers of their contribution obligations. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u85	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, all officers, members of the legislature. We are discussing the legal proposal of the EH-Glamentary teams, in order to make sure that domestic workers are properly connected in Social Security, in order to make sure that they are urgent measures. The original initiative was asking the Spanish government for three demands and the Reds. Together he added another request to Podemus' account, which was agreed to the half-way correction of the day. Mrs Sánchez, who has spoken before me in a rather precise and technical way, has answered why our teams and the Basque Socialists will not vote or protect that correction. A third of the domestic workers have no contract. In fact, they do not reflect on the true conditions agreed or imposed on. 72% of the working people at home in a continuous way have over 60 hours a week, and only 30% of them have their weekly rest hours in a continuous manner. Our team in the USA Socialist amendment with the group said, on the one hand, Mrs Sánchez said: "The US legislature demands that the Spanish Government be confirmed by the word C189 of 2011, concerning domestic workers." And why? Because we see the necessity of seeing this Word in order to render it effective rights confessed to domestic workers. The 16th of June, 2011, was an important day for the staff of the house in the world. After a long struggle which had been conducted by the domestic workers, the International Organization of the work had made a treaty with the staff of the house, and the international institutions declared the workers of the house as workers with rights and protection. The time of social justice spread. Convention 189 and its recommendation 201 are a matter of social justice and dignity. It is a strong recognition of the social and economic value of domestic work and a call for action to put an end to the exclusion and modern slavery of domestic workers in the areas of social and labour protection. Domestic and care work have a decisive impact on the quality of life of societies by making a decisive contribution to the human sustainability of life. Despite this importance, it represents one of the most invisible, precarious, insecure, unprotected and least remunerated forms of employment. By confirming this Covenant, they would receive the efficient measures of industry and security, or, in the case of Social Security, they would generally avoid the lesser conditions of other workers. Nothing is regulated by the measures of industry, we continue with old concepts, as if domestic care were a natural mark on us, and the formation would not be necessary. The usual bodily gratifications, or mental fatigue, are not confessed to be an accident of labour. Nor is the privacy of the working men who work in constant fashion in their houses, as has been said by Mrs. Today, nine years after ILO adopted Convention No. 189 and recommendation 201 accompanying it on domestic workers, the Government of Spain still does not ratify it. The EAJ-PNV group in the Congress of Deputies has always defended initiatives in favour of this ratification. It is the first international standard on decent work for domestic and care workers, aimed at recognizing and extending fundamental rights and protections to millions of people working in private households around the world. We think it's important that this request should be done more than ever, and that's why we got it in our correction and we're trying to protect it today. On the other hand, we'd have asked him to go on telling us about the rights of socialization, and the working person might not like some groups of people who're running out of this field of work, not to like what he's doing, but they're still in existence, and he's working on the Department. Mrs. Sánchez has mentioned the action which has been put into action, and the fundamental guide of preventing the workers of the house which have been published in the same year. I'm not going to go any further in this guide because we all know it. Mrs García, I share your reflection, I do not think that there is any group that does not want to improve the working conditions of domestic workers, of course, but once again we do not agree on the form. Mrs. Sánchez explained why we won't protect your middle-class. I think, as I said before, he's given precise technical and legal arguments, and I've tried to protect our correction. So today we think ours is better, and that's what we're going to stand for. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Teams that haven't run any corrections. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u88	Thank you, Madam President, good afternoon, everyone. As has already been said here, there have been many initiatives that have been discussed in this House, and many of them have been shared. As we have said on other occasions, this group, its real size, we do not know it, because, as has also been said here, 30% of the employed in the household are outside the social security contributions. For example, in 2014, the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate detected some cases of irregular employment in one out of three household inspections that had domestic workers. We are, therefore, faced with a sector that is quantitatively important, although at times its actual entity does not reflect social security affiliation data because, as we say, on many occasions such affiliation data are not fully known. Some of the data that I am going to provide have been collected from the diagnosis of the situation of female domestic workers that has been carried out by the Basque Government and Osalan in May 2019, and here it is noted that in our community 29,683 people were affiliated with Social Security as female domestic workers in 2017. And also, as the initiative says, it is verified through this data that it is an absolutely feminized sector, since of those 29,683 affiliations 95% are women and almost 40% are foreign people. We are – and that must be said – faced with a special employment relationship because of the particular conditions in which the activity of people working in the home is carried out. On the one hand, the area in which this activity takes place is the family home. And also, on the other hand, there is that relationship of trust that almost from the very moment the relationship begins has to be between employer and worker. This is what sometimes justifies this specific and differentiated regulation, as stated in Decree 1620 of the year 2011, of 14 November, which regulated this special regulation of service in the family home. A special regulation does not mean that there must be discrimination in the performance of that job. Mrs García said that they were carrying out their work in a difficult situation. I'm the one who thinks I'm gonna make that statement like this... is that they do not have to do it in a painful situation, and if they are doing it in a painful situation, what needs to be done is denounce it and arbitrate the formulas so that it does not happen. That is, to make that expression as something that usually happens, in a habitual way, because it seems to me that, first, it is a generalization that does not always correspond to reality and, second, that in any case, the means must be articulated so that this is not so, because I believe that this is something with which we all agree. And I believe that we have all agreed precisely on many initiatives that have been brought to this House demanding that the Basque Government monitor the conditions under which work is being carried out by domestic workers, precisely so that they are conditions of maximum respect for the work they are carrying out and for their own integrity, privacy and so on. The entry into force, as has also been said here, in 2012 of the law integrating domestic workers into the General Social Security Regime served to bring out a significant part of employment in this sector in 2011 and 2012, an issue that also happened in Euskadi. Although it is true that, as this study to which I have referred says, starting in 2012, these affiliations have stagnated not only in Euskadi, but also in the rest of Spain. As we say, since 1 January 2012, this Special Social Security Scheme for Home Workers is integrated into the General System and is integrated as a special system, and the contribution obligation changes, and from that point on, pay instalments are set for which different bases of contribution correspond, and depending on the salary that is received must be integrated into the corresponding tranche, and if wage variations occur, they must be communicated to the General Treasury of Social Security in order to change the tranche. This issue arises from a complaint by the domestic workers'associations that the General Treasury of Social Security has not warned employees that if such variations were to occur they should be communicated. And what comes to be reflected in that complaint that this group has been aware of is a discharge of duties that becomes more evident in 2019, because the interprofessional minimum wage is increased and this modifies the basis of the contribution. We have known, as I said, that in June 2019 different associations present a writing to the General Treasury of Social Security with the problems detected and with different examples. In July of the same year, these 34 associations requested a meeting with the head of the General Treasury of Social Security, a meeting that was not granted for the political moment. That request was reiterated again in September and was not granted. We agree that the law is enforced and the Administration, the General Treasury of Social Security, must ensure compliance with that law. We do agree that, if the General Treasury of Social Security considers that these complaints that have been made by associations are not correct because the law is being properly enforced, what should be done is to answer the associations saying that the law is actually being enforced, because the law must be enforced. And each specific case must be denounced, not only from the general point of view, but also from the individual point of view, in which a breach is being made. Therefore, we do consider it important to provide information to women workers and employers themselves on how law enforcement should be done. What happens is that in that first point that is requested, what comes to be requested, is that the law is complied with, and that is that we consider it an obvious, the first part of the request. And the second part, which is the question of retroactivity, has been said by Mrs Sánchez, that is going against the law, because it cannot be demanded, or employers can claim that they cannot make contributions for a salary they have not lent. So, that's not possible to do, retroactivity, that way. And therefore, I believe that the objective that is intended to be achieved, which is the application of the law, which obviously has to be done, and that the General Treasury of Social Security should ensure compliance with that law, with that wording of that point we do not believe that it will be achieved. With regard to point 2, which is to eliminate such discrimination, the special system currently in place has a common contingency rate of 28,3 % and one professional contingency rate. And their equalization with the general scheme would imply the obligation to contribute for unemployment, for the Fogasa and for vocational training. This is already expected to be done, although it is true that before such a full integration of the Special Scheme of Home Workers into the General Scheme it would be necessary to assess and study the effects that it may have on employers and on workers themselves, so that precisely this integration does not harm any of them. And with regard to the points in the amendment, to the third and fourth points, we agree. That is why I have already announced that what we are going to do is abstain from this amendment. With regard to the third point, we agree that the Basque Government should make that specific campaign. It may be acting, I do not say that the Basque Government is not carrying out actions, but the truth is that there are still situations in which it is unknown on the part of... although I have to admit that it is the associations that – and I am also aware of this – are the ones that inform the workers of their rights and how they have to carry it out, and in this regard they are doing an important job. But I believe that this work must be done by public institutions. I therefore believe that we should strengthen these campaigns and carry out specific information campaigns and specific inspection campaigns, precisely in this case of social security, so that we can see that it is well-valued, because we believe that it is correct. And with regard to compliance with the agreement of 7 June 2018, it is true, we agree that some of the measures have already been taken. In fact, one of the questions being asked, which was that diagnosis, I have taken the data precisely for this intervention of that diagnosis, which is hung on the website of the Basque Government itself, which was carried out or which was delivered, at least, in May 2019. We are therefore going to abstain. And with regard to – and with this I will finish – the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Basque, we will also abstain. I, with regard to the ILO Convention, said so at the time, is important. In any case, Mr Sánchez had the opportunity and did not put himself to it, but he had to wait precisely for the budgets and is now on the electoral programme. Well, I believe that the associations themselves have come or have shown that much of the rights that are recognized in that Convention are already covered by Spanish legislation. The point is that they complain that in many cases these rights are nothing more than a wet paper, precisely because sometimes, and it has to be recognized this way, the administrations themselves do not put the piles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u89	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing by the turn of the answers, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Houseland, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u90	Thank you. So many things and how little time. First of all, Mrs García would thank us for the protection of Podemos together. And I think, in fact, that this day, it looks like... I don't know if it's nice, but we're starting to talk about the pre-grate of certain sectors working around the surveillance area. Now we're talking about another very important sector, which shows that, even if it's my first and thousands of times, we'll keep coming here. So thank you. And, more or less, I'll try to answer the themes Mrs. Sánchez, Mrs. Arrivelaga, and Mrs. Llanos on the table. First of all, I would like to comment on the subject of Convention 189, which is one of the things that we have already asked for in this Parliament. It is not something new, we have asked for it in this legislature, in another proposal that we all accept. So let us continue to postpone improvements in the situation of female domestic workers until at some point the government in the Spanish State can ratify this Convention, because I think it would be a long way to go. Of course it's an important issue, which is why we signed it at the time. But, as I said, we are currently bringing a concrete proposal, a flagrant discrimination that is taking place against this collective. In fact, as Mrs Llanos said, there are already articles and laws that reflect some of the parties that this Convention contains. But in this case there would be two main lines of action which Convention 158 calls for, on the one hand, the adoption of effective occupational health and safety measures and, on the other hand, action to ensure that conditions are not less favourable than those of women workers in general, in the area of social security. That is what we have come to talk about today and it seems to me that I have not been answered to what I have at least tried to explain, which I may not have explained well. The problem is that we are saying that these workers are not contributing for the minimum wage they should, which is a case, as Mrs Llanos said, which has become known above all because the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage in 2019 has been great. This has made homeworkers themselves and trade unions realize that there was a problem at the time of contributions, which has been taking place since 2012, that the interprofessional minimum wage has not been updated and, then, the contribution base that these homeworkers had... That's the problem. When we are talking about retroactivity, we are talking about that they are not contributing on the basis of what they owed, that there has been a part from 2012 to 2019, that is, seven years, in which those increases have not been reflected in the contributions they have had. That's what we're talking about, not pay. We're talking about the quote. When they were talking to me about the first point, the wages, the minimum wage... Yeah, no one's talking about the Minimum Wage here not going up. We have, in fact, realised that there is a problem in the contribution because the inter-professional minimum wage has had an increase, in which it has been shown that then the contributions were not being done as they should be done. We're talking about retroactivity because the law hasn't been enforced. It's just that we're not talking about the fact that we're here asking them to raise their wages. No, we're talking about how they should have contributed all these years. They didn't. Os he dicho que ha habido different... but at the very moment of the prosecution. This shows that there is no inspection, no investigation on the documents offered or given in Social Security, which have caused the present state. That's what we're talking about. I don't think we're either trying to understand or not understand the problem we're putting on the table. As I said, they're a lot of topics, and he's not going to answer what's to be given time at all. But if, as we said, something has been done wrong, and it has been wrong, Social Security must take care of what has been done wrong, because it was their responsibility to keep up with it. He hasn't tracked, he's moved stocks to minimum and other tratypes, and he hasn't taken care of a year's up in quote systems. Beraz, Bai, it may be necessary to have a good contribution and to have an investigation into this and not to wait for the domestic workers themselves to report it, because, as we said, the only job where the word withdrawal exists and dismissal is so cheap is in the case of domestic workers. Are we going to leave the backpack on top of them again, when it is the State itself that is not fulfilling its duty? That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u92	Thank you, ma'am. The truth is that Mrs Etxebarrieta has explained it very well. And he explained it very well because, to begin with, we, when we made our contribution in our amendment and then in the compromise amendment that we signed with them the implementation of the June 2018 agreement, – because, in the end, we are coming to a point that the only thing we ask is that the things we are agreeing to be fulfilled – we were not talking about the diagnosis, but about the work plan based on that diagnosis, which is the part that we in our first intervention called for that was not done, that was not done and that was what we asked in our amendment. Mrs. Llanos, you misunderstood me. But this time we agree, that is not to worry, we agree that there is clearly a situation of precariousness, there is a situation of a collective, such as that of domestic workers, and it is obvious that we must denounce, but apart from denounce, what needs to be done is regular, what needs to be done is to give concrete solutions. And I haven't talked about... –like I've explained myself wrong or you've misunderstood me wrong – but when I was reporting the working conditions and the day-to-day conditions of these workers, what I was doing was reporting and what I was claiming. – and I believe that this initiative is also a concrete part of it – were these concrete solutions. Therefore, if we agree that there is a situation that is complex, complicated and precarious, we do not have to wait for the workers to win their rights and to reclaim themselves, but I understand that we, from the institutions, have to ensure that their rights are within decent working conditions. With regard to the amendment of the parties that support the Government, it is true, we agree, and we have already expressed it and it is already coming from behind, with what they are proposing. We agree with ILO Convention 189 of 2011, but it is insufficient. It's just that we're with you lost all the time in the "continue developing", "continue moving forward", and we can't stay there. That is a ratification, it is a recognition that has already been made, it is obvious. But we cannot vote in favour of your amendment, because you do not want to move forward, and there is a concrete measure and there are concrete solutions and there are other measures that are not what we have already recognized at another time. And it seems to me that, moreover, today in this plenary session, we are going back to the same thing. Because they are topics where there are similar diagnoses, especially it seems that, at least in speeches, there is a will to agree, but we are all the time retreating. And, moreover, citing agreements that we have already made. Therefore, if the agreements are already closed, let us comply with them. And if they are not closed, it is clear that there is a complicated situation, it is clear that there is a real situation and, therefore, we are going to implement new measures, because what we have already acknowledged is there. But it is clear that it is insufficient and that it does not work, Mrs Arrizabalaga. I therefore believe that we need to focus on the specific issue. And there is a problem of law enforcement, there is a problem with contributions; moreover, it is a collective, as we have already stated many times, very vulnerable, with a very complex, very complicated situation. We, moreover, have always argued that she cannot go... many times the workers themselves go ahead. And I think it is time that we really put ourselves to work on an agreement, with concrete measures, that will help them in their day-to-day life, that really, beyond the agreements and agreements we have already signed, will solve their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs Sánchez, Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u94	Okay. Mrs Etxebarrieta, Mrs García, you indicated that no change in contributions or problems could have occurred in contributions from domestic workers should be made to the workers' complaints. But there would be no other way to do it if those differences in contributions had actually occurred, so I have commented on it in the first place. Because if they are employers, employers can only contribute on a voluntary basis. We're talking about amounts that would come out of the voluntary payment periods, so the employer can't do it. The General Treasury of Social Security cannot make a request for liquidation per se That is the norm and that is what can be applied in any case to call for such retroactive effects. So, you can't ask otherwise, you can't ask how you're doing it. No, it has to be done through the way I'm telling you. That is why I have told you that we do not see what you have proposed there, because it is not possible and it goes against what the regulations currently in force mark. And then the regulations established within these years a scale of contributions that has been gradually increasing, obviously, because of the great influence that it could have if from one year to another you established in the field of household employees a very large increase in contributions from one year to another, because it could have a negative impact on the employment precisely of those household employees, if that happens without a gradual increase, which is what has been achieved over a number of years. And today, of course, this year has been the year in which there has been the most increase in wages, because there has been a significant increase in the interprofessional minimum wage, which is being applied, and this has automatically resulted in an increase in contributions, because this interprofessional minimum wage of EUR 900 has to be applied. And the one who is not applying it is not applying what the rule marks and, therefore, may be denouncing, but the rule that it establishes is that. So we have already told you and explained to you why we do not agree with the approach you have put to that first point. And then, in the following points, I have already explained why we did not agree, because a lot of actions have been taken and the obligations and various amendments that have been adopted in this plenary have been fulfilled, as I have already explained to you. That is why we see it more logical to adopt our amendment as a whole, and that is what we are going to defend. And I propose to the rest of the groups that vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u95	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Madame Arrievalga, the Eubertarian patriot, must not speak a word. Not even an agent of the Basque Potula team should speak a word. [[Pause]] End of discussion, we're gonna vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u96	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. We'll next vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociaists of Basque Sociialists. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u97	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, was made with one another by Esscal investigators, brexit." The next round of the proposed team, Mr. Becerra, representing the Podemos group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we announce an initiative to discuss the effect of brexit.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u99	Quiet, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u100	...for our scientists who work here, but especially for those who work in the United Kingdom. And as we anticipate damages in our group, we make proposals to protect scientific projects and attract researchers who will be unemployed. El bruxit brexit And these consequences will be not only at the economic level, but also at the social level. The Basque Government has developed various initiatives to analyse the economic impact on our companies of a However, the measures made available to Basque companies have not been the same as those made available to individuals. And we have to bear in mind that the consequences of brexit And especially today we are interested in our group talking about those expectations, those broken projects that can result in research. In the field of Basque research, science and technology and innovation, many research projects exist today – I would say hundreds – that are being developed with European funds between universities, SMEs and Basque institutions with the United Kingdom. I have here some figures I asked for in your day. There are at least EUR 36 million projects developed today by Basque universities; EUR 23.6 million in research projects for Basque SMEs in the UK; and up to EUR 11 million invested in research projects for very diverse Basque institutions. Elbrexit That is why one of the proposals, one of the first proposals that we have launched and that I have to put forward that we have managed to agree with the parties that represent the Government, is to strengthen the mechanisms available to the Basque Science and Technology System in terms of funding, in order to give these scientific projects the stability and certainty they need. But, as I said at the beginning of my speech, not only do scientific projects and companies need certainty and stability, but so do people. And so the second important issue that we want to address in our initiative is that of the future of the researchers who are currently working in the United Kingdom. According to the association of Spanish researchers or Spanish researchers in the United Kingdom, which has been following closely the negotiations of the Brexit Brexit They consider these respondents who, as I say, are working in the United Kingdom, that moving to another country almost half would move to Spain and that, although around 45% will wait for the outcome of the negotiations to decide on their professional future, about 25% has already changed their plans for their stay in the United Kingdom and about 20% will leave the country in less than 12 months. This means that although Brexit We have to attract that talent, we have to attract that research talent, providing them with the information they need to know what tools they have to return to Euskadi, and give them support by increasing the support they offer. current programmes, in particular the Idibasque/ Research Fellows. We have a third question that interests us and we care about it, and it is in what situation all the students who for years in the university field have made exchanges, have carried out Erasmus programmes and different programmes of personal enrichment, but also of educational and educational enrichment in the United Kingdom. We believe that they cannot be left out of everything that is going on and that is why we believe that agreements between the Basque universities and the universities of the United Kingdom must be promoted so that all those students who are currently developing these Erasmus programmes and exchange programmes can continue to do this activity with a certain degree of normality within what the Brexit Therefore, I would like to finish this brief intervention by saying that to deal with Brexit I believe that protecting the economy is not just protecting businesses, it is also protecting the people who are driving that economy and the people who are developing research projects. People who carry out research in other countries, today specifically in the UK, I think they are people who are also important to the Basque economy. But it's not the only economy thing. Most of the researchers are young. They are also young who preach to face the climate change in the streets. And some are young and some are looking for future and hope. They claim hope and future, and they certainly deserve it. So let us protect the investigators, not only for the sake of his future, but also because our future is uncertain and their hopes belong to the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u101	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. Basque Popular, Mr Barriio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u102	Thank you, President. Good morning, Lehendakari, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Good thing Mr. Becerra – and I tell you with affection – has realized that there is brexit He could have completed much of his initiative with some other issues, because the work has been done. And work has been done since the English decided to leave the European Union on these issues. And that's done and it's done. And it is good to do so, and it is good to seek coordination and collaboration, and that is our intention in relation to that issue. That is why I tell you that it does not do so in an integral way, addressing this issue, and it has not been achieved either in the transaction. I suppose you've had some difficulty. But, that is, by taking advantage of all the opportunities for researchers, for information, for advice, for action, for future possibilities that are in their hands, that is, what we can give them, what the institutions can give them, what the institutions already offer and what they can coordinate between many institutions, that is also what needs to be worked on, in that coordination, in that collaboration. You talk about the government, you talk about the University of the Basque Country... I am talking about the governments, ours, the Basque Government, the Government of Spain, the Ministry, I am talking about the universities, ours, but I am also talking about those of the rest of Europe, not only the British. Because it is a coordination task, in relation to what we are going to work on, to ensure the lives of researchers and those who are linked to research projects. Also of the companies, logically, but not only of the Basques, but of those that are in this whole European network where researchers will be able to play and make their lives and their scientific issues and their scientific and research activities. It is that, sometimes, seeing these initiatives that are limited only to ours, to the opportunities that we have, that we give them, that come... That is, in view of their initiative, we must consider that, even if it seems so, we are not an island, like Britain. We are part of a framework that is much more powerful than beginning to see only what we are doing, but, moreover, we do have to do it, but we have to be more ambitious and we have to make a slightly more general approach and with a little more coordination, even if it is to do so with the Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities, which has already done things too. Why not integrate into those efforts that we demand and that we can do with other institutions that are already working? Basque researchers have instruments that can certainly be strengthened, but you have to recognize and make use of those that already exist, apart from the ones that you want to implement, they already exist. And that, it would also be good if the initiatives adopted in this House were put in place. They're advisory services, they're communications services... There is and is being worked on and work is also being done on this advice and on these possibilities of analysing the activity of workers in the United Kingdom, not only of researchers, but of all, since the adoption of the Brexit Brexit. That is, it has had continuity with the following Governments, with the next Government. So, in that sense, it's good. Moreover, that is why we in our entire amendment want to recognize that participation and collaboration is interesting at that time. And besides, as far as researchers are concerned, look, the normal thing is that researchers, within the different projects, research projects in which they participate, research projects of the European Union, projects research projects in other fields, CERN, a series of research projects that are no longer exclusively European, i.e. that researchers who develop their research with employment contracts, continue there, continue there. That is the fundamental element. It is true that the possibilities will have to be seen in other cases, with problems of residence, with problems of employment contracts, that is to say, that is an element that will logically have to be analysed. But the normal thing is that these researchers stay there until they finish their work – Horizon 2020 programme, another series of programmes – they finish their work and stay there normally, because they are interested in the companies there, to go to other places where they also find research projects within their reach and within their reach. Not everyone will be in Euskadi, Mr. Becerra. There will be many research projects that can not only be carried out here and that will have to be done in coordination with other governments, with the governments of other countries of the European Union, with the Government of Spain, with other universities, which is also the good thing, that is, in that network that needs to be worked out. See, Spanish citizens in the United Kingdom, too, can, on these issues that have to do with their future, be informed, can also be advised. You establish a possibility of doing so in a greater way. Well, well, so far they have been able to do so since the Spanish Embassy in London was opened. The Embassy and consulates have the service, which is called the Brexit Single Window Besides, for what? For a lot of things, for a lot of things. Because it's not just for advice, what happens to my residence, my contract. No, no, it's for private consultations, of course. But it is for what has been done, for thousands of consultations, thousands of briefings on possibilities for work, for action, for personalized assistance on many of these issues. That is, not just general frameworks, but that is the fundamental element. Thousands have remained, I say again, thousands. To this day I would not know the figure, but thousands of meetings, thousands of working groups and personalized attentions regarding what can be done. And, from the very beginning, some questions were asked, but the answers were asked. I'm researching in the UK, how would Brexit affect me What is the impact of brexit In addition, the Society of Spanish Scientists in the UK, where the vast majority are located and where there are some very relevant Basques and Basques, is one of the agents with which this office interacts with scientists and researchers in a continuous way. I mean, will Brexit Brexit affect – another question – What impact will Brexit have What impact will Brexit have As for the University of the Basque Country and its mentions, of course it is important. And the other universities, Deusto, Mondragon, are more private areas. I guess they'll be working and also thinking about what opportunities they might have for scientists or researchers to come back. The University of the Basque Country because I suppose and I want to think that it will also do so in its capacity of autonomy. But in that sense, what do we also claim? Not only that, they do so in coordination with other universities, not only in the United Kingdom, because here there is a synergy in relation to the research of the United Kingdom, of other universities in the European Union, of course, the Spanish universities, which have an intimate relationship with Basque students, and that is the fundamental element that we want to highlight. We have to coordinate. The work of our institutions, our Government and its capacity for action must be coordinated. In addition – I have forgotten – I have no doubt that Ikerbasque is already working on what is being asked of him in this initiative. You are working safely, because it is your job, too, to see how you can register the best researchers or the best people who have room here, who have opportunities here. I think he'll be doing it by now. In any case, I will again make it clear that my whole amendment, which I thought could come to a compromise, but as you have not caught anything I have proposed to you, because the truth is that I do not like it very much and then I will abstain. The compromise amendment has taken nothing from what I have said to you and I have said to you that these are things I have already explained to you that can be recognized. It can be recognized that there is also a need to participate in the strategies of the Ministry of Innovation, Science and Universities. That would be normal. I just don't know why he hasn't picked it up; I don't know why he hasn't picked it up, and I also don't know why the Socialist Party hasn't pushed that collaboration and participation a little further. In addition, I say again, the unique window – I end immediately – where the association of Spanish scientists is one of the most important agents in relation to research...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u103	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u104	Sí. And the other aspect was that of the University of the Basque Country and the other universities, which have to participate with those of the United Kingdom, yes, but they have to participate and coordinate with all the other European universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u105	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Rodriguez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u106	Thank you, Mrs. President. Partners, good day, or good noon. Last month, we had a monographic discussion of the State Plan in this Chamber. In the United States of Euscalia, our researchers lived, or rather lived for a long time in the condition which they suffer. I'd like to recover a consideration of the researchers in this monographic discussion today. The character of the investigators ought to be developed in a particular context or under these conditions; worthy conditions of labour, and stability. And as we accused him of this discussion, the government has turned these careers into an explosion of obstacles. I'll give you an example of the objections the government imposes in this contest. During this year's June, for instance, the researchers who were to begin the third year of the investigation, from one day to another, saw their wages reduced to 700 euros. One of the conditions which I have mentioned to develop a series of investigators, i.e. stability, we must understand in its full sense. The researchers need certainty. In other words, the investigators need a future without uncertainty. The Government must therefore set up heaps, for it will hardly be able to secure and secure with the fairs of the present day to the study of Basques, and still less to those who are outside the nation, in the United Kingdom. Brixit to the exascal researchers who are conducting their projects in the United Kingdom It must be remembered that some of the investigators are developing their investigations voluntarily in the United Kingdom. But unfortunately, some of them have been forced to the science of eusla, technology, and innovation. We have only one certainty: <brexit > Thus together we propose to take the following measures as follows, together with Podemos, eubertists, and the Sociists of Eucalia. First of all, we propose to set up our duty as a guidance to researchers through the Basque International Agency. Euscal would be the main goal. Information about the chances of science, technology and innovation system. But to be really effective, our science, technology, and innovation system must be more attractive, our researcher must be able to keep an eye on our system. It is quite unacceptable that there are researchers, who feel themselves banished or ill treated, and there are. Second, brexit Idabasque of Research Fellows We propose to force the program and anticipate the opportunity to increase its growth. Thirdly, As it is with the investigators, and Mr. Becerra has mentioned them, so the project of the inquiry may bear bruxit. Fourthly, the Universities of the Escal University System have mutual contracts with the different Universities of the United Kingdom and Ireland in the Northern States. For instance, in U.V., he has Covenants with 34 states of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland. As far as we're concerned, brexit-- And finally, we request the Government to maintain the movements and alliances directed to the students and teachers, to ensure their activities in the United Kingdom and North Ireland. I want to end up with a thought. In the monographic discussion of the university Plan, it was impossible to make an agreement to improve the state of researchers. Today, on the other hand, it was possible to get an understanding. In the next few weeks we shall have a new opportunity at the Society, Politics, and Youthaire Committee to appreciate the salary of researchers who are not doctors. So we hope today that the attitudes shown by the parties who support the government will not be an expiration date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u107	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u108	Gracias, president. Well, as has already been said by Mr Becerra, by Mr Barrio, by the representative of Euskal Herria Bildu, the research staff, which is what we are talking about as a whole, seems to us to be key to our society, innovation, science and technology. And it is key in a society that sometimes advances at dizzying rates, it is key to knowledge, to progress, to a society that coexists in a pluralized, globalized world, and it is key as a tool for social progress, because knowledge in this sense is the greatest virtue. Knowledge is the cohesive element, which contributes to the economic and social well-being of the country, the central element of a developed country, because without research there is no progress, no evolution and no creation of knowledge. It is therefore essential that the relations of the Basque university system with research centres and universities in the United Kingdom be maintained as they have been doing to date; research projects and expansion of these relations continue to be carried out, encouraging bilateral collaboration agreements, as well as strengthening through scholarships or grants, both for students and teachers, so that they can continue to develop activities in the United Kingdom. That is basically what the amendment we have agreed on, which in part has already been detailed in this rostrum, is about. Knowledge is what makes us free and, therefore, resources are very important and essential. This is the main problem that exists, that is, what would happen if certain projects are left to be financed by the European Union or do not have the necessary resources or projects-agreement with the Basque public university or with the rest of the Basque university network. The possibility of increasing funds for science and technology should therefore be explored in anticipation of possible harm to SMEs, universities or public bodies. Precisely determining the situation of investigator staff in the United Kingdom as a result of Brexit Brexit Brexit The Spanish Government has adopted Royal Decree Law 5/2019 of 1 March, which provides for contingency measures in the event of the withdrawal from the United Kingdom without an agreement, on the understanding that migration and alienation are the responsibility of the General Administration of the State. Even so, the Basque Government has been concerned and concerned to analyse the impact of the Brexit ] as we know, the UK is one of the leading trading partners of Basque companies ] , such as the impact on the Basque population living or moving to the United Kingdom, or such as health coverage. In addition, the Basque Government has a direct relationship with the Government of Spain, a dialogue with the British Embassy in Spain, which, as Mr Barrio said, has been in existence for almost two years with a single office-window open to deal with these cases, and also with the members of the Brexit Brexit follow-up committee. The Basque Internationalization Agency, through the web and with the support of an office in London, has also launched an information and advisory service for Basque companies, so that companies can analyse their exposure to this phenomenon. It would also be advisable for that office to be used as a channel or channel to report on employment opportunities in the Basque system of science, technology and innovation in order, as Mr Becerra said, to attract talent to our society as well. There is also a programme in the Department of Education concerning the return of Basque researchers working in UK companies or institutions. A programme for the repatriation of investigator staff Idibasque/ Research Fellows "I think we've all mentioned it," that is resourced and that there should be an analysis analyzing the postbrexit context And the most important thing is the agreement that we have reached today on science, technology and innovation, because all these are country challenges, challenges that should have everyone's commitment. And the debate, after all, is determined to bet on a society of knowledge, of research, that progresses and that it is competitive with the rest of Spain, Europe, and internationally as well. I simply want to conclude by congratulating myself on having reached a very broad agreement on this, and I am glad that Mr Barrio at least does not vote against this proposal, even if he considers it to be somewhat incomplete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u109	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u110	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments and ladies and gentlemen. Good noon, everyone. The topic which we bring to the discussion today is another proposition, as described by Poseidon, concerning the state of the Esscal investigators in the United Kingdom, brexit. Our team has a bright view of Europetist. Thus we have always expressed in so many districts, because we are a people which is looked upon in Europe, because we are open to the world, and from the way of integration we are the people who wish to have a special word in Europe and an active share. That's why you're so late. Over the past few years, months, we have seen how the process initiated by the United Kingdom in 2016 has become increasingly complex and complicated. Today, more than three years later, the situation is still full of uncertainties, not only for the British themselves, but also for countries that may have, like Euskadi, interests of all kinds in the United Kingdom, affecting institutions, affecting people, businesses and in addition to all sectors. I thought about the new plan of the 2019-20 euskal University System, which we had been able to discuss a couple of weeks ago at the Board of Education. And I think that, after all, we were reinforced by everyone's contributions. This plan has a total of five axes, two of which, in addition to being related to each other, I believe are also related to the purpose of the non-legislative proposal presented in this case by Elkarrekin Podemos. They are research of excellence and internationalization. Both range from the generation of scientific talent to the strengthening of research groups of excellence and the competitiveness of the Basque system of science and technology and research within the framework of the European Innovation Area; of research, rather. These axes, also within the plan, identify actions, specific objectives, especially the enhancement of the mobility of research staff and participation in the European Research Area, as well as those research centres, universities located in the United Kingdom. And it is not only the Basque Government that can be focusing on these two aspects, but also the universities themselves of our system recognize the challenge they face in promoting the internationalisation of research within the framework of the European Research Area. In this case, the challenges are different, the actions they have planned. Among them is the capture of competitive proposals or the enhancement of international positioning and visibility and the participation, after all, of Basque researchers in the different consortia and research networks of excellence, not only at European level, but also at European level, and obviously in the United Kingdom. This being so, given the importance of research of excellence for Euskadi in the international arena, the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the Brexit Brexit However, and it has also been mentioned, the Basque Government, as well as other institutions, have been taking contingency measures, specific plans, and have also done so in different areas to try to provide Basque citizens with a certain type of security in the face of the uncertainty generated by Brexit. And I believe that, thanks to the compromise agreement, today, in this field of education, we take one step further and in the agreement signed with Elkarrekin Podemos, with Euskal Herria Bildu and with the Basque Socialist Group, we extend that package of measures, that package of plans, and we also make it applicable to Basque researchers, in this case in the United Kingdom. In this agreement we try to summarise in five points the aspects that we believe are fundamental to, as I say, a context of insecurity, a context of uncertainty, providing security, providing guarantees to the Basque research staff on British soil. I am not going to stop reading the five points again, but well, I do think it is a good deal for Euskadi, it is a good deal for Basque interests in the UK and, above all, and I think today is the most important thing, I think it is a good deal for Basque researchers in the UK. And, therefore, it is a basis or a support of our institutions and also of this House and, therefore, of Basque society to this collective of researchers. Finally, I would simply like to thank the groups, both the proposer and those we have had sex with, for having arrived at this compromise, which I certainly believe today is worth highlighting.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u111	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Passing on the answers, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u112	Well, believe me, Mr. Barrio, it has never been our intention to leave you out of a possible deal. But take into account two important issues. The first is that in our original proposal, our non-legislative proposal, he was questioning the Basque Government. My job here as a parliamentarian is to control the action of the Government and, in those matters where I see some possibility of improvement, to make the proposals that I think are appropriate, and we have done so. I did not want to dilute this issue, because I did understand and understand that it was the Basque Government that had the most effective and timely instruments to deal with this issue. The second big hit you had on your initiative was that you have focused your amendment on the role of the Ministry of Science, Innovation and Research. And, of course, you propose that both Basque universities and the Government coordinate and make one with the Ministry's strategy. That is very good and, indeed, they will have to do so, but that cannot be the central issue on this issue. We should also consider, at this point, what the role of the Ministry is, because it does not believe that in developing the initiative we have not taken into account the initiatives that the Ministry might be developing. You have exalted the role that is being done and I have to put it more than in doubt. I have here a reply given by the Ministry itself to a parliamentary representative of our political space in January 2019, in which he said: "With regard to the measures to be taken by the Government to facilitate the return of Spanish citizens who are investigating in the United Kingdom, it should be noted that the Spanish Foundation for Science and Technology publishes the Science in Spain collection annually. Does an annual publication to you seem sufficient to consider the information that investigative staff need in view of their possible return? Later, the Ministry itself says: "The talent attraction actions are generally existing and there are currently no measures specifically designed for the United Kingdom." This is January 2019. Do not think that I have not taken into account what the role – better, certainly – of the Ministry in this matter. But I didn't want to make it the center of the initiative. There are two issues which I have not understood or which I may have misunderstood in your intervention. On the one hand, it says that efforts are being made to keep researchers in the UK. If I want them to come back, I want them to come back. And, on the other hand, I believe that you have called into question the need for this initiative. Of course, when in a transaction we meet the groups that support the government by signing to set up an advisory service within the office in London of the Basque Trade & Investment Ikerbasque I also call on the groups supporting the Government, Mr Álvarez and Mr Pastor, as Mr Rodriguez said in his speech, not only to approve it, but also to make it real, which is what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u113	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Popular, Mr Barriio, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u114	Yes, thank you, President, with your permission from the seat. It's just that I, about Mr. Becerra, went a little further. In other words, he has questioned the Government and I have said with this initiative that I wanted to give the Government work, or duties. And I also wanted to do so in coordination and I wanted to put it as a fundamental element of that inquiry and of those best duties to do so in the area that needs to be done, because the relations and issues of the European Union, and the Brexit And then, in that sense, this part that we are the Basque Country, what can best achieve, in addition to its own potentialities and capabilities and competences, is to do so in collaboration and cooperation. That is why this collaboration, this cooperation, I demand it from the Basque Government and I demand it from the universities in what I wanted to say, in that essential role of the states in relation to Brexit. Anyway, he told me no, that I wanted to put... It couldn't be a central issue what I was saying. But it has not been a marginal issue, Mr Becerra; it is that you have not put it to me or marginally, not only in a central way. I, of its sensitivity, understood that I could have found a place, a channel to coordination, to better relations, by taking advantage of the efforts that are being made, that you have said, that good, that are improveable. He has criticized them in some way, but I referred in the first speech to the essential work of the Spanish Scientists' Society in the United Kingdom in relation to the role it is playing in preserving, in ensuring, in doing, in answering many of those questions that I have asked and which have answers, precisely, for the work of these associations. We, Mr Becerra, all we want is for the Basque investigators to be where they have to be. If you have to be in the UK and do your best research and be the best scientists there, we too will benefit. And if they have to do it here, better. But the fundamental task is to find the best possibilities here or in the rest of the world for researchers, Basque scientists, to do their best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u115	Thank you. Mr. Rodriguez. Mr. Álvarez, all right. Pastor, no. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect, and the middle-class correction signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 64; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-14.u116	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon.
