ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Preceding theme: "Mortion, introduced by Ibañez, the member of the KRGGG, concerning the retreat in the social barrier of EAE. With respect to the motive, to make sure once and for all, the drawings of the entire December 12, followed by the 92.1 article of the Ruler." It was a draw in the vote of the universal corrections introduced by the Euubertist and the Sociialist Basque Society together. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we have to make the vote of that correction again. Please see that everything is all right before we start. Then we can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 36; the contrary, 36; the Absences.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u1	Therefore, since it is a draw, the correction of the integer is cancelled. First point in theme list: "The dispensation of the Office of Work and Justice, made on the bill of the Basque Commercial Commeracies. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. San José has the word to introduce this bill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, representatives of the movement of the euscal Cooperatis, all good days. It is a great satisfaction for me to be able to present to the plenary of this House the draft law on cooperatives of Euskadi. Exactly one year ago, on 18 December 2018, the Governing Council approved the bill that you discussed and whose opinion is the subject of this first item on the agenda. The legislative programme was carried out by the Department of Labour and Justice, and you, ladies and gentlemen, have done arduous work of analysis and debate on the project throughout this exercise. The fact that the drafting of this bill was envisaged in the Euskadi 2020 government programme and set a date in the legislative calendar was a consequence of the interest shown by the signatories of the government agreement by the Basque cooperative movement and the importance of it in our economic and social reality. The day Cooperative Act is of 1993, and although it has changed three times, this government thought it right to hand the necessary tools of eucalyprate and social changes to the future roots of economic and social changes. I am not going to expand on the explanation of the draft law, because it is for your ladies and gentlemen that the in-depth debate on the draft law falls today, but I do want to highlight the aspects that I think are most relevant to the content and the process followed for its preparation. The Basque Cooperative Movement represents a dynamic and fundamental sector of our social economy and of the Basque economy in general. It is a sector that generates a large number of jobs in our community and, in addition, it is quality jobs. Based on the principle that laws should be useful tools for citizens, our first bet was to involve the sector and build the project with its collaboration. If Basque cooperatives are to have a tool to facilitate their work, the aim must be to build on the consensus with those who will be the recipients of the measures contained in the bill. Our principal friend has been the Supreme Council of the Basque Council, because it is the organization organ which represents the sector, and we've been working with the Compeccop and Er member from the beginning. But also, because the law covers both general and more sectoral aspects, contacts were maintained and contributions from the Mondragon Group, the Federation of Housing Cooperatives, Bizikoop, the Alternative and Solidarity Economy Network and the Federation of Social Security Entities have been made. We also heard the opinions and proposals of, among others, the Vice-Adviser of Housing. I would also like to highlight the cooperation of the three Basque universities. I would like to thank all these institutions and the people who have represented them for their cooperation in the process of drafting the project and for their efforts to build the consensus reached, of which the Department of Labour and Justice is particularly proud. I do not want to forget, in this section of thanks, the good work done and the effort to overcome the difficulties shown by the people who make up the Directorate of Social Economy, together with advisors from the department and with Jokin Díez, the director of Social Economy, at the head. This concerns the process followed for the drafting of the bill. With regard to the contents, they are all aimed at consolidating and strengthening the Basque cooperative movement. Without losing any of the characteristic aspects and values of co-operativeism, we wanted to provide the sector with a useful tool to reconcile the advanced social character of cooperatives with the challenge of competing in a constantly evolving global business market and subject to constant uncertainties. Among the more concrete objectives, without being too exhaustive, as you will deepen them, I would like to highlight our desire to consolidate and integrate in a single normative text the legal changes that have taken place in recent years; to clarify the responsibility of the partners in the event that social debts are generated by cooperatives; to update the configuration of certain types of cooperatives, such as housing and associated labour transport, and to incorporate other types, such as business promotion or junior cooperatives; to ensure the specific identity of cooperative societies to reinforce their consideration of "social interest"; to regulate different issues of corporate government, adopting it to the evolution of its rules; to give flexibility through self-regulation to different aspects that may be modified by the statutory or internal regulations. Another element to be highlighted was the incorporation of the gender perspective in a cross-cutting way in the project framework. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, this is a brief summary of what we aim to achieve if you approve the project and end up making it law. But I don't want to finish my speech without mentioning the work you've done on the US American bill. First, in power, on the committee, and I want to confess the work of all who are going to discuss here today. It has been diligent work, with an enriching result, which can certainly be seen in the opinion on which they are going to decide today. By highlighting the most relevant contributions incorporated in the parliamentary process, I will refer to the integration in this text of Law 6/2008 of the Small Cooperative Society. Strengthening the gender character of the project, which has been complemented by the obligation to establish specific means to prevent gender-based violence in cooperatives. The incorporation into the Euskadi Higher Council of Cooperatives of representatives of the outlaws, completing the institutional representation in it. Other measures that promote and disseminate the values of cooperativeism and enable the creation of cooperative projects in business crisis processes. In conclusion, you have on the table a good bill, agreed with the sector, which responds to the challenges of our cooperative movement, which will undoubtedly strengthen the Euskadi model and international reference in this area, which supports an economic activity identified with sustainable development and quality employment. I am sure that you will not miss the opportunity that we are created with the approval of this project and its conversion into law. Besterik ez, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u3	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Any members of the board would like to introduce their judgment? No. So, we're going to the teams' turn. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, advisers, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the cooperative movement, of the cooperative world, good morning to all and to all. It is an important day, of course, for this cause that we share many: the passing of this law. Furthermore, we are now giving cooperatives an instrument, a tool, and we can now, of course, demand that they take advantage of it for job creation, industrial growth, increased research, technological advances and internationalisation. It is a good instrument for all those issues that the country needs so much. They have cooperatives, cooperative associations, a challenge, an obligation, especially large cooperative structures, with the characteristics of this law and its recruitment opportunities and corporate flexibility. It is a law with resources, that looks at the modern cooperative society, that looks at the partners, that overcomes some obsolescences and that strengthens the regulatory autonomy, adapted to each cooperative project. And these resources, cooperatives and their associative structures have to take advantage of them, since the cooperative, the cooperative world, is also a sign of this country's identity. From our point of view, this is in full respect of the cooperative principles. Law 1/1982, which established a cooperative development, was adopted in 1982. I recall the handling and adoption of Law 4/1993 of 24 June, in which I had the honour, too, of being rapporteur, and what he meant as a reference. The legislation on cooperatives, from that moment on, in Spain followed this model. A modern model, an agile model. More than 25 years have passed, and reform was needed. To do so in the hands of the sector and to look at the new realities, new realities imposed on us by Europe, the new forms of co-operativeism, the needs to regulate them, the new kinds of cooperatives, the rules of accounting and economics, the situation of the partners in the cooperative, that is, new formulas of transparency, governability, management of a social economy enterprise such as cooperatives. This bill, which we will adopt today, was introduced on March 11, 2019, as the counselor said. It has been nine months of intense work and fruitful work; we are satisfied. And we have reached the final stage of the legislative procedure, which will lead to the adoption of a new Basque Cooperative Law. It has certainly taken a while, because the previous legislature has also presented itself, but it has arrived and we are now going to approve it. A need felt and demanded by the sector; assumed by the institutions, by the parties, and oriented – as has been said – to modernization, to flexibility, to transparency, to cooperative democracy, always within – in addition to – the principles established by the International Cooperative Alliance, an organization, as you all know, of a consultative nature of the UN. An amendment by our group has included, in the explanatory statement of the law, cooperative principles and values, which must be remembered because they will come, after parliamentary procedure, including as well. It was necessary and, well, we have to have reference: voluntary and open partnership, democratic control of the members, economic participation of the partners, autonomy and independence, education, training, information, cooperation between cooperatives, the feeling of community... They are values, all of them, within the broader concept that is the social economy, which is not just a theoretical concept, but that, on this earth, has a whole reality found in its quantification, in business excellence and in its indisputable and hopeful social utility. We wanted these issues of the social economy and cooperative principles to be included as relevant in the explanatory statement, and it has been accepted. I say again: it is a regulation that will be contemplated by other parliaments, by other institutions. That is why we, in the debate on the draft law, tabled a series of amendments, 37 amendments, in an absolutely open spirit, in a constructive spirit. And we have to say that, as a result of the agreement and the negotiation in the paper, the fundamental part of our proposals has been assumed and negotiated. There are six of the amendments that we maintain for this procedure; that is, we have to say that 31 have been part of the agreements of the presentation and, in our view, of the substantial contributions that we wanted to transfer. That is to say, we have six amendments, which are justified in our view on some issues that are technical improvements or greater clarity in the law; some issues that have to do with the manager's position, some repayment deadlines, a reduction in some deadlines or the liquidation of housing cooperatives. Well, there are some issues that are more of a technical nature. In any case, the non-acceptance of the amendments will not prevent our approach to supporting the law. The participation of the People's Group with its contributions, I believe, has been important. It's been important. I'll sum it up briefly. Apart from what I have already mentioned, we considered it necessary that the explanatory statement of reasons, on the basis of which the explanatory statement of the draft law contained the cooperative principles within what was the International Cooperative Alliance. Of course, the approach of the social economy, its definition and its legal models, because they are enterprises of social economy and it also has to be shown this way. There has to be a development yet. This Parliament has known plans, there are plans under way, we have worked on a case-by-case basis, there are plans for the development of the social economy entrusted to the Government. So, in that sense, we need to know where we are. And, logically, it was also important to include in the explanatory statement the role of outlaws in the new role – worth redundancy – that this law is going to give to outlaws. Indeed, the Councillor has also recalled this: we have proposed the integration of the small cooperative society into the Basque Cooperatives Act. We did not understand that Law 6/2008 operated on the margins or in parallel with a new law on cooperatives in Euskadi. And the text has been the unitary and reference text. Small cooperative society has an important role, it is growing, it is developing, and it has to do so in line, in a text of a unitary nature, with what is the regulation of cooperatives. I believe that, in this sense, it is deepened, progressed and given security to those who have to consult a reference law, whether it is going to constitute a cooperative society or a small cooperative society. I believe that this is a fundamental, logical element, and our amendments have been aimed at enriching the bill in that regard. And a fundamental issue, in our view too: the Higher Council of Cooperatives is an important body. It is a body that monitors, monitors, has assigned monitoring functions on the cooperative movement, on cooperatives, on the cooperative fact itself. And it has many issues that, of course, we wanted to highlight. There was a gap: outlaws were not part of the Higher Council of Cooperatives. And they are very important in that institutional framework. The Higher Council of Cooperatives is composed by the Basque Government, it is composed by the universities and it is composed by the sector, but the outlaws, within the conception that one must have of country, have a relevant role in the cooperative development; in the field of agriculture – the agricultural cooperatives –; the taxation of cooperatives, the essential taxation, which is the general boards and the outlaws that will channel this effort of the cooperative societies; the economic promotion... Well, they're the powers of the outlaws. So we have, of course, succeeded in integrating. And it has, of course, been assumed by the paper that the outside parliaments, their representatives, will now be integrated – now it will be established how they have to be integrated, the rules or issues will establish how they have to be integrated – into that essential function of the Euskadi High Council of Cooperatives. And that's there. And then, we have also talked – it has been discussed, I think it has been enriched in the presentation – about the fact of crime prevention of the model contained in the statutes. I think it's moving forward. Due to the social nature of the companies we are managing, it has been established, in the advance, in the commitment and social responsibility of cooperatives, of course in the statutes of cooperatives of more than 50 partners, to establish in the statutes a model of crime prevention and, of course, a model of removal of sexist behavior. I believe it is an element of progress and an essential element. I say again: this bill, this law that we will pass in a moment, will be followed by other regulations and other types of business companies – there is no doubt that it is being done; at least the experts are saying so. And that is what leads us, of course, to support: the fact that the document was interesting at first, supported in the sector and with the contributions that we have made. I'm done, Madam President. We will vote in favour of the bill and vote against the amendments by EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos. We believe that these amendments would affect the functioning of cooperatives to a large extent, would adversely affect, hinder their needs for flexibility, adaptation and, above all, also, and in some cases, would set up political debates that do not have to be resolved at this time because of the complications they would generate. Yes, there may be outstanding issues regarding representativeness, but this will not be the time. The moment has to be a great deal, a great deal, that we hope the government can be able to lead someday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u5	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u6	Thank you, President. It is a great satisfaction for me to intervene today in this plenary, where, presumably, we will adopt a new law on cooperatives, adapted to the current challenges and to the economic and social changes of recent years; adapting, to all of them, the reality of our cooperatives. This law will make it possible to adapt to these changes this reality and thus meet the challenges of the future of the social economy sector, a basic sector of our economy and of our social system. Today we bring to this plenary the adoption of this opinion report following the work of amendments tabled by the various parliamentary groups in the presentation set up at the end of June this year, which held its last meeting on 20 November 2019. We were pioneers in the state, passing a cooperative law in 1982; we updated it in 93, and three subsequent amendments were made. This new law consolidates and integrates into a single legislative text a number of legal amendments in force, including, following the discussion in the paper, the regulation of small cooperative societies. And this will allow us to remain an international benchmark in the development and implementation of the social economy. I think it is important to point out, as far as the drafting of the text is concerned, that it has been a very consensual text – the adviser also said – which has been agreed with the whole cooperative movement, where there has been wide participation, too, of Basque universities. And important work has also been carried out by the various parliamentary groups within the paper. Focusing on its content, this law maintains the basic structure of cooperative societies configured in the year 93, but introduces certain aspects that adapt the regulation to the needs of the current social reality, among which we can highlight that it regulates in more precision and detail the use of the cooperative formula, avoiding its instrumentalization interested or the misuse of cooperative enterprises without being. It incorporates general, fundamental aspects for us, such as gender equality. Parity is sought within the different organs of the cooperative. In the beginning, the draft law included its reference in the sixth additional provision, but its inclusion within the text was valued in order to give greater emphasis to all matters relating to gender equality, and it was agreed to introduce it under article 32 so as to make it much clearer, within the legal text, that it is committed to gender equality in the different organs of the cooperative. It reviews the legal configuration of certain types of cooperatives and introduces new ones, such as business development cooperatives and cooperative juniors. It provides greater legal certainty as to the liability of the partners in relation to the imputation of losses. The rule details that the partners will be liable for the debts of the cooperative only with their contribution of capital, without having to answer with their own assets, clarifying much more the previous situation. It specifies the duties and responsibility of the administrators. And although the post of administrator is free, a remuneration can be established, but taking into account the size of the cooperative, as well as the functions that administrators will have assigned. The aim is also to improve and modernise the council and to make it more professional, allowing non-members to complete up to 30% of its members. In the search for greater flexibility in order to compete with other companies, up to 30% of non-members will be recruited, raising the number of hours/work to be performed by non-members from 25 in the current regulations to 30%. It allows structural changes, in the case of mergers, divisions and segregations of cooperatives, which allow them to be more agile, adjusting the cooperative rules to the innovations introduced by the accounting and auditing regulations. It enables self-regulation, giving flexibility to certain aspects in the statutory process, or regulations of internal rules, or, where appropriate, within the cooperative movement. Under the liquidators' regime, it varies considerably with respect to the current regulation, and it is necessary to hold the status of a partner. The registration cancellation regime has become more flexible; it ensures the balance between business operations and the maintenance of cooperative identity. One of the objectives of this law is to modernise the relationship of cooperatives with the public administration, clarifying the responsibility of cooperatives. With regard to its purpose, the new law seeks cooperative development under parameters of legal certainty in a globalized market in which cooperative societies compete with other legal forms. It tries to be an appropriate legal offer, among other existing ones, to maintain and opt for the cooperative formula as an effective and diverse way of doing business. A democratic and solidarity-based enterprise that is competitive, made by people and for people. Following the debate on amendments, the original text has been enriched by multiple amendments that have been introduced and we have agreed between the different parliamentary groups, which result in good law. Among these changes we can highlight the introduction within it, too, of the regulation of small cooperatives. Within the minimum content of the statutes, issues such as the determination of the procedure for the elaboration and monitoring of the crime prevention model, as well as the incorporation of specific means for the cooperative to be a free area of sexist violence, but limited to cooperatives of more than 50 partners, in order not to establish very serious situations for very small cooperatives. It includes that the statutes may provide, within the governing board, inter alia, for a balanced representation of women and men. The deadline for adapting the statutes to the changes introduced in the new law for cooperatives is extended from one to two years, thus making it easier for all cooperatives to adapt. The presence of the outlaws in the Supreme Council of Cooperatives of Euskadi is introduced. I believe that a large number of amendments have been introduced into the text which have resulted in a more enriched law, but a very good one. We would have liked this rule to have been adopted by the consensus of all parliamentary groups. I do not think that will be the case if the votes continue to hold the same vote as the opinion in the Committee on Labour and Justice. But I believe it is a good law, which has been worked in a way coordinated by the Department of Labour and Justice with the cooperative sector. Amendments tabled have been accepted, we have worked well, very well within the paper, looking at amendments by technical amendment and being adopted a considerable number of amendments. And we would like to see that being a good law, very consensual, very much expected by the sector too, it could have the consensus and the approval in the vote of all the parliamentary groups. However, I did want to thank all the parliamentary groups for all the work they have done in order to achieve the final result that we are presenting to this House today and which I hope will be adopted unanimously. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u7	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Together represent the Podemos team. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours. becer carollo President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. Today, in this plenary, in the final debate, we are debating the amendment of the Basque Cooperatives Act, which dates back to the year 93. If our group had doubts at the beginning of this process about whether this law would be better or worse, right now we have a final certainty, and it is that this law is going to be worse than the one we had. It will be better for large cooperatives, but it will be worse for the cooperative movement in general and, above all, for cooperative values. The value which Father Arizzlers raised to-day is shaken: solidarity, collaboration, responsibility, equality, democracy. The dream of the volcano is farther away, and the values he has raised have lost force in this law. And we're really sorry about our team, because we've so far considered co-operatives as our business model. And not just us, we've all taken it here, Euskatad, but we'll have to hesitate and we'll have to listen. Two years ago, in a debate on cooperativeism, I said that from an economic and social point of view, the main contributions of the cooperative movement were summed up in the word "stability": stability in employment, stability in wages and stability in the roots of decision-making centres. Today, thanks, among other things, to article 103 which is going to pass this law, that stability, especially in employment and wages, remains more than touched. Not only is the percentage of workers on behalf of others increased from 25 to 30%, but a number of exemptions are laid down which are quite a glue so that in practice this percentage is what each cooperative wants. Workers who are providing or providing services to the Administration as a client are exempted from the cooperative, in those cases where the cooperative acts as a temporary work enterprise, in those cases where there are subrogated workers, and, above all – and this seems to me to be the most serious – in those cases where there is an explicit refusal by workers to be cooperative when they enter the cooperative. In other words, we are opening up the path of lending and false cooperatives, which is one of the objectives that our group had when it faced this bill: to avoid false cooperatives. But in addition, this Article 103 has another perverse effect that I cannot help but say here, and it is that the sharing of the cooperative's results will establish that non-cooperativeists will be given at least 25% of the results obtained by the partners, which in practice will be a maximum. So, with low wages and high results, what we will have is the consecration of the principle of "Equal work, different wages", and this is not moving forward. But, in addition, I said in that debate on co-operativeism that the main advantage that cooperatives had for society was that they allowed economic and social profitability to be combined. I have no doubt that this law will allow such economic profitability to be maintained, but not so – let me say – social profitability. Because social progress, a country's social progress, is based on reducing inequality, both social and individual, and this bill that we pass today does not affect reducing that inequality. I should like to draw attention to the fact that I have heard the Councilwoman say that she has many advances in the gender perspective, when it cost us to admit only one of the recommendations in the Emakunde report that had been made. Up to 70 terminological amendments had to be changed. It has been impossible to establish joint bodies. The role of cooperatives, such as other companies, in reconciling work and family life has not even been admitted. And it has cost enormously to admit that cooperatives are an area free of sexual crimes and sexist violence, although I have to admit that we have succeeded in the end. Not only have Emakunde's reports not been taken into account, but also those of the Economic and Social Council, which, in the case of workers with functional diversity – to whom, by the way, the draft law mentioned as physical, psychological and sensory deficiencies – will not count among the accounts of workers on behalf of others, so that, in practice, they will never be able to access the status of partners. This, as the ESC report said, calls into question the social integration of this group in terms of equality. The new law ought to be useful to prevent the difference, but instead it will fix the difference and encourage it within the cooperatives as well as outside the co-operatives. Inside, while there's the hope of being a member of hired workers, no union, no protest, no conflict, no corporate committee. And outside, this is the most important and most important thing in all countries and countries where the co-operatives have the greatest romance. For our group, for Elkarrekin Podemos, it would have been easier to look elsewhere today, it would have been easier to follow the current, it would have been easier not to notice the consequences of inequality and the potential of discrimination contained in this law in its articulation. We admit that it is necessary to consolidate our cooperatives; we admit that we are in an uncertain and changing global environment, not only in economic and financial terms, but also in social and environmental terms, and we admit that what the big cooperatives are asking for is more flexibility and more competitiveness to work in the globalized capitalist markets, but I have to say that in a cooperative, when inequality and precariousness enter through the door, the future comes out through the window. And today the cooperatives, with this law, have no future, because, among other things, the mechanisms of the future that are established today in economic terms, in business terms, have no reflection in the articulation of this law. There is no talk at any time of excellence, quality, added value, innovation, environmental sustainability, knowledge management and even of the participatory inclusive model that the cooperative movement itself has been proposing in recent years. This law, the only key to the future that it establishes is to have a mattress, to have a working mass with less rights and less wages, so that in times of crisis we can release that ballast and that the ship does not sink, although on the way some can drown. But with this – I have to say this loud and clear – the essence of co-operativeism, which is the solidarity of workers, is drowning. To conclude, as if innocent, and with my team's permission, I want to make a personal reflection: I would like to think that I am wrong, and that the diagnosis I spoke of today will not be able to do so. If that were the case, I'd like to take responsibility. But I have to say the same thing and I have to ask the rest of the political teams, especially when they vote for you with their responsibility. I may be wrong or not, but the reality is that co-operativeism, despite this law, will remain alive. He will be alive as long as there is a person who collects the witness of Arizmendiarrieta and will be alive as long as solidarity and the desire for social equality remain in people, even if they are not in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u8	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u9	Hello, good morning, everyone. I'll start with a personal reflection. In 2001, when I was still a young man, I was asked to examine the Basque Act with the laws of the other Common-wealth, and spent a year in doing it. And what I discovered was that the law of the Ecclesiastiques, compared with the other Laws, was very advanced, because it was a very perfect Law, and that the Cooperative Spirit was well preserved, and that it was a Law that well refracted. It must be observed that the cooperative reality of Euscal Autonomia Escimia is not related to Catalonia or to the reality of the movement of the Riots of Andalucia; for in this case business-cooperatives are great cooperatives, many of which, as we all know, renders things extremely difficult. It makes it difficult to decide between 1,000 people, to participate in winnings, to face crisis, to face all those challenges that are (ethical, digitalization, robotization, internationalization, etc.) in this way, or to form a three-to-third deopulation and to make it work. I miss Arizbaris too, I miss his spirit, all the spirit that is reflegated by that bust in MCC's residence. And it is true that there are many people in the world of cooperation who have forgotten the corporate values, who have never known them, and who have a great temptation to compete in a capitalist world in a capitalist form. And this is evident in the strategic decisions made by certain co-operatives, in the plans they make, in the changes of the states they propose. I come from a cypherative bass, and it is true that these things are seen to be things which produce but little satisfaction. But I'd like to show that we have a strong cooperative movement, that we have a cooperative movement all over the world. With all its difficulties and all its temptations, I would like to place the cooperative model in value compared with the other legal figures. What, at present, is still maintained by the nature of its characters, that is to say, collective participation in the decisions, the solidarity of different companies, the common purses of crisis, as well as the evangelical workers, to share cooperative activities and cooperative performances, all the subjects belonging to the right of information, which are very important, because we must consider that when we have worked on other legal figures we have not had them in some other way of view, and which are natural and in some other respects natural. It is true that the cooperative figure is not the only figure to guarantee the rights of the workmen, but it is true that it guarantees the rights of the workman in the most crude and appropriate manner. There is also the question of responsibility, that is, when a worker participates in a Building and Loan, is not only a worker, a worker who works in the care of others, but also a person who has commitments and certain obligations to that company. And I, in this sense, find terrible virtualities in the co-operative movement, and I believe that we have, in fact, a cooperative movement all over the world, and I'd like to put it in value. That's why the Basque Country is agreed to collect. We will consent to this law. A critical critic, a critic, and what truth is it that some things don't like, that we've tried to sit on the table through ponciency and not come out. It is true that this re-established law of the Kooperatives has introduced some of these temptations, and it is certain that many elements have been contained here which have been introduced by certain parts of the quadrants. I think that we ought to give him a circle of negatives, and that is why we will keep our repentance from the increase of the number of inventorys. We all know that the temporary percentages marked by the law increased. We all know that the Eunomy of Euscanic Vision is inferior in the Eremia Eremia, and that it often looks at one side, and has done very little inoperatively in the co-operative movement. And in the end, the number of these temporary workers is carried to us by the de facto. And I believe that when public and politicians accept the laws, we cannot, in this case, be able to allow cooperative sectors, and in other cases agree to the pressures of other agents or other entities, and give them legal value. And this, in my opinion, is a serious error in the strategic error, because the number of temporary workers was now above 25 percent, and if we put the 30th to work, it will be even bigger, because the inspector will continue to do his work well with his limited resources, and that will give him a breath from the various corporate competitions, as well as from the other kinds of work, to counterpoper these provisional workers. What is more, as Mr. Becerra has said, is a very long list of exceptions, which enables even the 30th plantation to increase greatly, and we shall find in the future the number of members not being equal to the amount. Secondly, there are certain Commercial realities which have not been received in the former law, and which have not yet been received, and which, unfortunately, are not yet received; and we believe that this is also a fault, because Europe is here planning by its own various directives, that the co-operatives of this kind should be introduced into it, and therefore our law will be cut off from the rights of the planet of Europe. And it seems to me that in two or three years' journey we must find all these realities in order to enter into the law, and to have to form or burn them in some way. Thirdly, I think we have lost an important opportunity in making the public purchase, when the public contract is made, when the figure of the Copoperatives is in use. We're for the Kooperatives, but then we don't do it when we can do it for the co-operatives. And in the end, this law has not received it. We proposed that and didn't get it. And I believe that this also is a matter to be considered in the future, because I think the public administration should prefer co-operatives when contracting with enpresées, because, as is evident, the influence of the co-operatives upon the social entornobs is far more important than that which other corporations have. I am sorry, too, that the measures against fraud are not determined. It wasn't fun. It's been pretty cowardly about this thing. We all know lies autonomous... That there are false cooperatives. And what he does is, after all, depreciating the co-operative movement. Deprestiate. And the Basque Country had a set up a few measures to deal with it. He planned to pursue some of the different administrations, to exchange data, between work inspections, diputations, and funns, to examine the whole network that really is there, how we all know that in transportors and other sectors there are false autonomists and false cooperatives, and that there are few and many more jobs to be done in that sense. And I just missed my guts. I'm gonna go back to positive, and I'd like to make a final review. In the Positive, whether together with the member of Podemos, or with me, it is hard for us to enter the clauses and articles about equality; it has cost us a great deal, and at least one of the amendments of the Basque People has been admitted. It has to be said that six of us have been admitted from 29 to 9 and one was very technical, so the weather has been good, but political agreements have not been that bad. And we have great satisfaction in this amendment which we have obtained, for from now on, we must establish a communion in all public councils, and this is a boundary. I think it is a very important step, because we all know that the presence of men in the economic sector and in the company world today is still great in the decisions of men, and that, although they are well in formation and technically, we are not in the ultimate organs or in the highest organs of determination. And to accept this amendment introduced by the Basque Country, I believe that it is a step forward, and that it will spray all the cooperative movement. We are happy, too, that another element of importance was accepted for us, and that it requires the co-operats and the rules of employment to be executed. There is already a frame of the Coopatarerib, who will protect all those workmen who work for others, and who work at the theatre, and who can appeal to the cooperation of any workman, even to the assembly, or to the rector of council, to proclaim their rights. Because it's done in places, but sometimes it's not. And then we think it's a third positive element that the members of the community have entered, because they were not included. And we find this important too, to consider this reality and to improve this reality. And I wouldn't want to finish it without making a strict review. We're on the side of the Kooperative World, we've shared this bill with the Koopateravei, but we've made this legal project with the Kooperavei, but it's a historical demand for the co-operatives, that is to say, that one of the five members in the Council of Professional Administration is part of the world of the cooperatives, that's not tolerated. I mean, we're for cooperatives until Confebas gets involved. And if Confebas gets involved, the co-operatives are secondary companies, they're secondary interlocutors. And I think this is unacceptable and we've lost a great chance to do this. We defended it, we had hard bronkas to accept this subject in our power, we're being approved by legal reports, and yet the Euskák has decided to submit to Confebaski once more, and I think it's hard to accuse him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The Government took effect on this legislation by the hand of the law calendar, the law of the Kooperatives today brings us to the consent of this Chamber. By the Supreme Council of Kooperatives, University, various sectors of belief, and the Mondragon Corporation, the law of great consensus is in the sector. And, borrowing, I do not think that any one yet puts the consistency and propriety of this law in the co-operative sector. And we, on our side, believe that it is a law which serves to improve the quality of life in society. And when I say it is a law that serves to enhance the quality of life in society, I do not mean a vain phrase of ambition or grandeur. I am not treating of principles which result from the peculiar philosophy of co-operativism or socialonomy. Koopatarerib has his face and eyes, soul and heart, but also strength, weight and data in our economy. Many places treat us as an international driver in the world of the cooperatives. For example, the co-operatives, which produce the most employment and best conditions for their partners, form 60% of our cooperatives, while the European Union is 20%. The co-operative work, alone, is 6% of the busy population, around 60,000 people, if my data is not wrong. And to answer this reality, it seems to me that today we present a good project of laws in front of this Chamber for his approval. The Twenty-first and Twenty-first. to the economic and social context of the century To your destination, I mean, it's because they needed a legal instrument to adjust it, and today I think we can actually say that we can answer that need so many different ways, improve and clear up. This law takes upon itself all the past of the Coperatives, and sets it to the future, because it cannot be social and just, without forgetting all that we have received from the existing generations, and without making the proper contribution to the contractation. for the mark of life is not to subsist, but to excite and to adapt. With this law, cooperatives will continue to have economic development as a means and not as an end. But even if economic development is to continue as a means, it is necessary to compete in that atrocious competition that exists in globalised markets. In order to materialize the distribution of wealth that characterizes cooperatives, it is first necessary to create such wealth, and to do so it is necessary to present and play at the level of the market of the markets in which it is present. To produce more and better, i.e. to increase the two basic factors: productivity and quality. The company cannot and should not lose any of the virtualities of efficiency by the fact that in the same human values enjoy a clear prevalence over purely economic or material resources. Rather, it must, for that reason, accentuate its efficiency and quality, since the social must be credited for the economic, no less than the economic must be authenticated for the social. And if anyone, from the courteousness of sight or argument, thinks that by expressing myself in these terms about productivity, quality or efficiency I am using I do not know what neoliberal visions, I invite you to open the book Thoughts In this regard, considering it to be the zenith of the flexibility of the Cooperatives Act, there has been some concern about the increase from 25 % to 30 % in the possibility of hiring workers on behalf of others by cooperatives. And while it is true that it is an issue where proportionality and balance must be maintained, this is given for more exceptional moments (working times, specific projects, etc.). In our view, trying to move ideas such that the 25 to 30 % increase in the possibility of hiring workers on behalf of others opens the door to precariousness is part of a rather superficial analysis. Does 30% open the doors to insecurity and not 25%? Where is the limit from which this precariousness would begin: in 26, in 27, in 28%? Would any eventual precariousness depend on the possibility of the number of workers on behalf of others who are able to hire cooperatives or depend on working conditions, those conditions where we always rate cooperatives as best and exemplary? Do we believe or don't we believe in cooperatives? At the same time, we have heard during the course of the process of this bill that this measure is valid for regulating an irregularity that was being contracted above the permitted 25%. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to show our disagreement without further adjectivation or comment. This bill also contains other important keys, both for cooperatives and for cooperatives, such as, for example, the shielding of cooperative partners, limiting their responsibility to their capital contributions and, in the same way, defining as a limit their own assets as regards the responsibility of the cooperative. It can be said that these criteria were already de facto Following on from legal certainty, all regulatory changes in this area in recent years, including Small Cooperative Societies Act No. 6/2008, are consolidated into a single text, while it is possible through the promotion of self-regulation that certain issues are changed through internal regulations and regulations. Important changes are made in the governance model, giving it greater openness and facilitating mergers, divisions and transformations. The representatives of the Forumlands are given an introduction to the Supreme Council of the Basque Cosoperatives, in order to form an institutional area of the institutions relating to the co-operatives of Europe. This bill of law involves the measures that the company who can be found during the crisis of the enterprise also enables the conversion of a Building and Loan project to become a co-operative project. At the same time, the constitution of certain kinds of cooperation is to-day. In one case, the housing, the means of gathering jobs, and others (for example, the Junior Cooperative.) Koopateraibism, to be a strong phenomenon, must spread and project and develop in all the areas of society and social and economic relations. On the other hand, the position of a woman is the exact proportion of the growth of a society in all societies. And from this point of view, the specific measures of avoiding the violence of women in co-operatives, and the contributions which have been made to establish the equality of genera in the higher organs, are important and laudable. And we've made all of them, and more of them all. I think that in the sector, by the contact made with the sector and sector, we had a strong legal project in the Parliament and the text that will be legally established here and with its contributions, is a powerful platform for all the Basque cooperatives. Our farewell and gratitude to all of us who have contributed to you. Many reforms will still be needed, and even a change of mentality will be indispensable if the economic activity is intended to produce its human goal, for it is human, in short, the author, center, and end of all economic and social life. But today we think we're making a nice move on that road. A new co-operative law for another generation. We are not moved by chimerical idealism, but by a firm consciousness. We're realistic about what we can and what we can't for now. To prevent the present from disappointing, and to leave no one to-morrow or the day after, we must be effective and practical. In the end, no doubt, I'll do it with a phrase from Father Arizzlera: There is a present between the past and the future where illusions remain, in which we must face the responsibility of the circumstances, embraced by our duties. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to get our responsibility done today. Well, we're beginning to light the future with today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u12	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing the response force represent Euscalo Popular. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Soon. I wasn't going out, but Mr. Becerra's catastrophic speech has worried me, and I have to say it. What Mr Becerra does and what he transfers – and that's what I'm most concerned about; there are some issues that, well, that can be part of the criticism – is distrust of the co-operatives, distrust of the co-operatives. Realize that it is the co-operatives, those people, who will decide the statutes, the management with more strengthened assemblies, greater guarantees that this bill gives them, that is, realize that you distrust the co-operatives. That is to say, the issues that you have spoken about can be developed in cooperatives and must be developed; and they must be developed by people, by cooperatives, which are the actors, of course, of business action, of cooperatives. In other words, the issues you have spoken about will have to be decided by those partners. It will not be done by an entrepreneur or a CEO or a manager. The heads of staff of the cooperatives are the cooperativeists, and you know it, you know it. You, of course, are wrong in the harsh criticism of this bill. That criticism, of course, is not shared by the cooperative sector that you claim to be defending, it is not shared, and I believe that in the bill many better channels have been put in place for that which I told you, to have more confidence in the role of the partners, which you also distrust in a rather sharp way, isn't it? Better channels have been put in place than previously in the role of partners for their area of decision, for their information, for how to influence management, for rights in relation to transparency... Much has been improved on that. Look, you are always suspicious of areas free of aggressive unionisation, you are always suspicious of those areas, and you like to take labour control out of the areas of the companies themselves, and here labour control is guaranteed in the areas of the companies themselves, Mr Becerra. That's the point. We understand that you are suspicious of your ideological involvement, but, of course, this bill and this law is moving cooperatives forward and is going to move the country forward, because it is going to generate employment, it is going to generate economic growth and many other things to which we have already referred, because now cooperatives have an obligation to manage this law well as well. And, of course, this law also gives duties to the Administration. It is clear that there have been things that have not worked well in the development of the 1993 law in relation to inspection, control of cooperatives... There have been things that should have been detected also by the Administration in relation to important cooperative projects, right?, that were not detected. And given the shortcomings of the past, we think that there can now be areas of control. Of course, I believe that the government has also taken an interest, there will be more public intervention due to the character and social interest of cooperatives, right? The role of this Parliament will also be important, that is, you have to trust it too. We will have to analyse the regulatory development of this law, but we will also have to control the action of the Government so that those issues that have not worked well so far can function, in relation to the violations, with the inspection, that they have to do so. That is to say, I think it also gives the Administration more role than in the past and tools to neutralize improper actions or outside the cooperative principles, which will be something that the Administration, together with the Higher Council of Cooperatives, will have to analyse, which now has a more strengthened role, of course. Mr. Becerra, you're wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u14	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u15	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group agrees, Mr Barrio, also with you, with the concern you have expressed for the catastrophic speech that Mr Becerra has presented to us here today on behalf of Elkarrekin Podemos. We are used to these apocalyptic speeches lately, but I believe, Mr Becerra, that this law cannot be said to make the previous law worse, because it is not true. You are justifying something that is unjustifiable, because it is a good law, it is a law that has been worked out and has a broad consensus with the representation of the cooperative world, and we have also enriched it with numerous amendments that have been introduced within it. We are an international example in the cooperative world, and you have given here an image that seems to be horrendous and that this law is going to make that situation much worse. And it is not the reality of what we live in, but quite the contrary, that we are an international example in the cooperative sphere. And it does not open the way to false cooperatives, but the opposite. I believe that there are means of control to prevent them, in coordination with the Directorate of Social Economy with the farms, with inspections, etc. That, there has been, will continue to be, and I believe that it will also be increased with this law in the future. And as far as the field of equality is concerned, Mr Becerra, I said in my first speech that it was important in the original text – it was reflected in the sixth additional provision – and then in the whole field of equality in the cooperative world. After the discussions within the presentation we considered that it was perhaps better, to give it even more emphasis, that instead of establishing or collecting it within an additional provision, we would introduce it within the articulated, and it was inserted into article 32, which refers to all the organs of cooperatives, to give greater emphasis in that regard. So, it's not true that it doesn't matter. It has been given to him, and it has been given to him from the beginning. Many amendments have then been adopted, and you say that the Government has not been brave in adopting a number of its amendments. I don't think it's about whether the government is brave or not. If your amendments had convinced all the groups in this House they would have been approved by a sufficient majority within the paper, and if they have not been approved it is because they have not convinced most of the groups in this House. I also believe that within this law are the limbs for the inclusive, participatory model, with this law and with previous debates that have already taken place within this House. And, Mrs. Ugarte, we haven't doubled. No one has bowed to what Confebask wanted. This law contains the possibility that the representation of cooperatives may be and may be part of organs of the administrations, but we did not believe that the reference to one particular of them, which was Lanbide, had to be collected in a specific way within this law, but that this possibility is, but it is for everyone, in general. Then, each of these specific bodies will have to be discussed, but it did not have to be collected in a specific way within it. I will conclude, of course, because I am running out of time, thanking the representatives of the cooperative group who are with us today in this plenary for all the work they have done throughout the process of drafting this law. I think the result of all this work is that we are going to pass here a good law, which will serve to keep us as an international reference in the cooperative world. And I would also like to thank you for all the work and cooperation you have provided throughout this process to the members of the Department of Labour and Justice and also for the efforts made by all the parliamentary groups in this House to bring this law to light today. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u16	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours. becer carollo I would like to refer to the role that the Government has played in the processing of this Act. The Government has been a mere transmission belt. He's been a rectist, rectist of a part of an economic sector. Not even a complete economic sector: he has been the rector of a part of an economic sector. Every time we had to discuss an important amendment – here is Mrs Ugarte – the mantra was "It is that this has the consensus of the sector, this we cannot touch". Since when can a legislative power of a country not touch a law that is already given to it? Since when? Since when? The inclusive terminology proposed by Emakunde was not even changed. Not even that, not even that. The role of the Government, from my point of view and of our group, has therefore been very disappointing. Because our group was going with the intention that this was a good law, that this was a good law, the law that this country deserved. There is no consensus in the sector. Small cooperatives have not had the opportunity to pronounce themselves. Their amendments were already rejected in the preliminary draft. Only a group of small cooperatives appeared, invited by our group, invited by our group, and at its main request, which was that social initiative cooperatives should have a preference in public tenders, it was said no, it was said no. In all public tenders, all cooperative companies will have the same priority: large, small and fake. Yes, the fakes, because there is not a single measure in this bill that faces the fake cooperatives. And there's going to be fake cooperatives, there's going to be. They will happen because this bill allows cooperatives to manage all kinds of public services without limit. No limit. In addition, mixed management is established, i.e. there may be three or four cooperative people who manage a cooperative with the participation of the Administration itself, the Administration itself. It's the open door to customerism in this country. And this is not catastrophism, this is what we have left written black on white in this law. And there may also be cooperatives without cooperatives, because if a cooperative provides that public service that I have just mentioned, none of its workers count as cooperatives, except the founders. So, you tell me whether or not I'm a catastrophe, but this is what we've approved, this is what we've approved. So, then, this is not a matter of our group, or myself, having confidence or mistrust in co-operatives, whether we believe in cooperatives or not, as Mr Urrutia has said. I am a legislator here, as one more, as rapporteur, and I only believe in the law and in reality here. And the reality we have right now is clumsy. Announcement: "The company Araluce ceases the activity without notice and leaves 141 workers out". This is the reality that comes to us. This is the reality that comes to us. What did he say, what did Batz's cooperative mass say about the closure of Araluce? What did he say? I just say here that with this law that we're passing what we have is a worse picture. It's a worse picture. Our group will continue to want to believe, wanting to believe in the cooperative movement, but this law does not reflect the principles to which it refers. And I will end with a question to which Mrs Ugarte has referred, about Lanbide, to which she did not want to refer because during the whole process of this law this has been the great smoke curtain that has hidden everything else. And I have to say it like that. All the debates, all the appearances, all the press news has been about whether or not cooperatives can participate in Lanbide. And I, what I'm saying is, after this law is in view, how we can't defend cooperatives as entrepreneurs. If they are, if they are already, first order, first order! How can I not defend my participation in Lanbide! Well, of course I do, of course I do! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u17	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u18	Thank you. I wanted to endorse what Mr Becerra said, which is true that the Government has spoken to certain sectors and has left out other sectors and the impressions of other sectors. And that's right, we've seen it in the paper, and I wanted to believe that Mr. Becerra doesn't lie in that sense. With regard to Mr. Barrio, look, I'll buy you anything. What I'm not going to buy from you is that this Cooperatives Act has put in place mechanisms for the administration to monitor false cooperatives and fraud in general. This is not the case, and I said it in my first speech. Euskal Herria Bildu proposed an amendment to deal with this issue and there has been no interest, there is no interest for cooperatives to have greater vigilance and greater persecution towards tax fraud and fraud with regard to labour relations. And I think it is important and I think we need to stress it, because I think you did not listen to me when I put this amendment in the right way. And a distant confession about the question you asked. You said 25% of 30 percent is more precinculation or not. And so, when we ask questions, without data, well, we can buy everything, we can say yes or no. But I'll tell you a story now: Do you know what the difference between an engineer and a co-operative member is for the same job-related indifference? Well, I'll tell you: 400 euros, 400 euros, right? A co-operative gets $400 a month, extra pay extras and so on, hireing a partner instead of hiring a temporary worker. That's why we do it. That's why we go up from 25% to 30%. Let us not, then, speak in the abstract; let us speak in the concrete; Four hundred dollars is cheaper, one temporary worker is more than the other. And that, in the industrial tanks, which have a much greater track and have larger control mechanisms. I don't know what's going to happen in smaller co-operatives, false cooperatives, and strange entities formed by false autonomists. So, we don't need to be frivolous. You pay a lot less for the same job. And that's why she's in here because the co-operatives asked for more employees or adults of other people's interest, because they're cheaper, so they can come down and add benefits. That's very simple. It's a math deal. Please don't be frivolous with that. And then, in the end, to the thread of what Gloria said and what we said before, I want to make a complaint, and I'd like to accuse the virtuoso which Confebas has committed in the transfer of this law. The Confebas doesn't show up in a few elections between companies. Confebask represents some corporations, but Confebask does not represent all the corporations, or, at all events, the majority of the corporations. And therefore Confebaly I do not acknowledge any legitimacy here, in a legislature, in a tramitation of the laws of the legislature, which is the supreme legislature. And I hope it's the last time Confebas dares to do this kind of illegal Introversal. And I think that the rest of the parties ought not to admit, and that we ought not even to admit the transfer of the other laws, and put a strong red line on it, and make a collective reproach. I said it at his moment, and I confirm it again. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Becerra, look, I'm not going to go into the ratings of whether or not you're a catastrophe or not, because, really, I think your work has been a good job, I think you've contributed, you've done to bring in and you've done interesting reflections. But I agree with Mr Barrio when he says that the basic problem of his argumentation, I also believe that he is in distrust of cooperativeism and of the cooperativeists. Because you say that this law is going to be worse, and I – I believe I have said this in my intervention – do not yet know anyone in the cooperative sector who has opposed this law, the convenience and the need to adapt this law that we have the honour to deal with today. And I do not share at all that cooperative values are going to go backwards. Look, my intervention – so I wanted to do, and I even mentioned the source – has been bloated with phrases from Father Arizmendiarrieta, so I gave them until the reference of the book. Because you said "Aita Arizmendiarrietaren amtesa urrutiago dago"; bada, nik uste dut aita Arizmendiarrietaren ez of her amtesa, her truthfulness. It is true horri gaurko that it is true that it is aura ikusten dugun etorkizunera moltatzen lagundu behar diogo. It's been a long time from her, the menik egin gabs, the mouths of the asmoa. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry for those thoughts of "Equal work, different wages," etc., but they reaffirm me, they reaffirm me in the distrust I was talking about at first. There's one thing you and Mrs. Ugarte have commented on. I am deeply dismayed to say that equality issues have cost me, because I believe that on the part of this rapporteur, on equality issues, I think that I have, of course, absolutely supported any aspect of equality. And Mrs. Ugarte used to say that I'm a little frustrated. What plans, always... ! I don't come here to get frivolous. And I don't like to talk like that, but do you know what's going on, Mrs. Ugarte? I've been an inventory in the Building and Loan. I mean, I don't say abstractions, I say concrete things. I've been an engineer in the Building and Loan. And I've been effective in other kinds of companies. And here, today, I may say, I have felt much better treated, or that I have felt less the difference. I used to charge the profits when they were paid. I don't know how big the difference is, but I haven't made the calculations myself, but I don't think that jump from 25% to 30% has anything to do with it. I think he has something to do with the urge. And, Mrs. Ugarte, I'll tell you something. You see, during the development of the whole project of the law, I had the same feeling, and today I had the same feeling with you: I think you've got a lot more reason to say no than yes to vote. Yes, yes. Here, well, you've done nothing but criticism, and here's what you've done with equality, OIT and social speculations and what you've done and the only reason you've accepted is to vote "yes." And what about the profession and the Confebask? Do you think I'm afraid of telling you from this place that Confebask made a great mistake with the letter that he sent to this parliament in the middle of the year? Yeah, I don't have a problem saying that. Can we call him engineering? I'll tell you from the tribe, but it wasn't the only army, is it? It was not a great and incomprehensible mistake. And I'll tell you more: I don't think I've ever obeyed anyone, but you? Do you remember what you've done on the 13th article of this bill of laws? How did you check your position after a phone call and put it in with a lot of hue? Yes, yes. No? You don't remember what you did on article 13? A correction from the Populian Party, Collectors and Podemos support it, and well, the work of the crew is still going on. And when we thought it was over, because the members of the department came in, then we had a phone call. And I thought that the recruitor would come to that last meeting and say, "This is unacceptable, this is engineering, so you can't work," and that's where the phone call comes in obediently and almost repetitions. So here...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u21	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u22	Yeah. Here, then, every one ought to know how to handle his contradictions before he can accuse others. How does the business get along? I don't know, but I know how it won't work out. I'm sure you don't. This requires a very pleasant reflection, especially the necessary wants, and the agreement of social, economic, and political agents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u23	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The discussion is over and we'll vote. First, we vote for all the reserved corrections the team has made to the articles of judgment. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 45; the Abstations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u24	So EH Collected team corrections were not accepted. Next, we'll vote for all the corrections reserved by the Basque Popular Group. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the contrary, 65; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u25	So, it's not like the Euskal Potion corrections were accepted. And finally, together, we vote for the reconnaissance of the Podemos team. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 45; the Abstations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u26	So, it's not like we've agreed to reconnaissance with Podemos. Next, they vote together with the articles of the judgment with which they are redressed: 5, 11, 12, 18, 20, 22, 25, 26, 33, 37, 43, Forty, 47, 53, 49, 53, 54, 55, 56, 6, 103, 105, 13, 13, article 145, section 1436, article 1436, 145, 1446, 1447. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 11. Abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u27	So they've been accepted. The articles and regulations that have no correction in the judgment are agreed upon. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 63; the contrary, 0; abstainments, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u28	So they're accepted. The explanation and the name of the law are put to the vote. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 63; the contrary, 0; abstainments, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u29	So they're accepted. And the Euscadian Act is simply approved. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss the procedures of one first and second reading, Eterns EH, assemble together Podemos, Socialists, and the parliamentary bill of law made by the parlamentary team of Eucharka, to change the 2/2011 law of hunting, 17 March. Discipline and final resolution. In accordance with the 10th of December, 2019, the assembly of Bojets will be transmitted by one single-time procedure in the entire Union. The side shift and the counter shift, no one's got to participate? No? You're explaining yourself? [[Berber]] That's what we're voting for. What you vote for is a legal proposition. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 74; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u30	It is therefore unanimously approved that the Law was to change the 2/2011 Law of the 17th of hunting. Next, we'll go to the vote. representing the population party. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, from the People's Group we have voted in favour of this proposal for a law amending Law 2/2011 on Hunting, since following the Order of the Court 423/2014, of 27 July, of the deputy of Innovation, Rural Development and Tourism, the declaration of a safe zone for hunting in part of the municipal territories of San Sebastián and Pasaia was made. As a result of the provisions of that foral order, the exercise of hunting in fixed posts belonging to the authorized lines of the Ulysses coastal line, in the municipal terms of San Sebastián and Pasaia, was prohibited. The Fédération Gipuzkoana de Caza made use of this foral order, and by decree of 2017 part of the order of 2014 is annulled and, in respect of the hunting security zone in the municipal terms of San Sebastián and Pasaia, the lines of fixed hunting posts existing on Mount Ulia are excluded. This, in accordance with article 27 of the Hunting Act itself, which regulates the security zones and which states, in point 2, that hunting with weapons is prohibited in the security zones, with the exception of fixed posts already established and recognized by the competent body of the foreign parliament that corresponds before the entry into force of the Hunting Act. Since the area in question is very crowded by visitors, by passengers: there are data of 110,000 people in GR-121 Talaia, the third most crowded place in the Gipuzkoa counting network, after the Flysch from Zumaia and the town of Urbia in Aizkorri. This, without counting users of other paths of the environment – the return to Ulia or the Camino de Santiago – or people who do not practice hiking but who come to the recreational areas of these spaces. Hunting at the 46 posts included in the register –21 on the Ulia-Mendiola line and the 25 on the Mendiola-Faro de la Plata line – would cause nuisances due to noise, loss of perdigo for users of these routes and the mountain in general, without ruling out risks for safety due to the limited distance of certain posts to the roads. Since this situation is creating a conflict of interest, it seems necessary to amend part of article 27, so that point two states that hunting with weapons is prohibited in the security zones and that fixed posts already established at the entry into force of this law may be exempted by the competent body of the foreign parliament. It seems to us that, given the precedents and the unique situation in this case in the Ulia area, it can be an acceptable solution, and that is why we voted in favour of this proposal. I would also like to point out briefly that there is a need to amend certain aspects of the law, both from some outside Parliament and from the hunters themselves. And this is not the time, but I do want to record the need to meet these demands in the next parliamentary term. This, so we'll be notified of the duties we have pending. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Łódź de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are still some left. The law we pass today is a timely amendment of the law, not least. It is a question of adapting this law to give tools to the outlaws, who are the ones who have the competence, and to be able to make the hunt compatible with the conservation of nature, and also with other activities that are being done as the populations change their uses, their customs, their habits. There are spaces in Basque geography..., a geography with a lot of population density and small in turn that, therefore, has a multiple transit, not only of hunters, but of mountaineers, of people who love nature, of..., in short, citizens who dedicate themselves to other activities related to nature, and it is about giving them the greatest security to all, to those who do some activities and to those who do others. Therefore, as human, urban development, which the development of nature creates new needs, the laws must be adapted. This law aims to adapt that, it aims to ensure that hunting is carried out with certainty: security for those who practice this activity, security for the rest of the population, and for the goods that must also be protected from public action, such as this Parliament, when adopting a law. This is, therefore, the explanation for making this ad hoc amendment. There's unanimity. Well, everybody agrees. Great.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u34	Thank you, Mr Price. Mr. Becerra, together representing the Podemos. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Our group believes that kinegetic activity should be compatible with other activities that are carried out in nature, but especially when these activities are carried out in a peri-urban environment or in areas where intensive human activity may occur. It does not seem sensible, as far as the judges say, that cinegetic activity, hunting, should take precedence over those other activities that do not harm the environment or the living beings living in it, and therefore it seemed common sense to support the proposal that the Nationalist Group had moved to us at the time. That is why we signed it, that is why we subscribe to it, and that is why we voted in favour. I have to say that it would have been even better if, in addition to mentioning the power of the Member of Parliament to modify these prerogatives of hunting for the general interest, it had been added: "for the safety of people, for public health or – including – for the protection of the environment", as laid down in Directive 43/92 on the protection of habitats and of wild fauna and flora. It wasn't possible, but, well, it's nothing less. Our group therefore appreciates the initiative of those who first proposed it. No more, thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u36	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u37	Good morning, everyone. This proposal came from EAJ's hand. From the start we had a good view of the hunting laws as it is written to-day, and in the 27th article today, which produces many problems both to the parties and to the administration. In the deserts of security it is forbidden to hunt with weapons, or at the present day the law says, but the law exempts the traditional post or circumstances from this prohibition. And that's where problems come from because, in so far, security ideas are not respected in so many places. Perhaps it's the one known about the Donostia Ulia, but it's not the only one. There are a lot of people, especially in the natural areas near the suburbs, who walk, bike, and so on, and wherever the game cards are too close, the danger is obvious, isn't it? The litigations made several attempts to limit some of the hunting-grounds, but, by the way the law was written, these attempts have been repeatedly contested in courts. And when the law was written, the security camps and so on. -it was respecting the provinces, but the coletilla of the exceptions to traditional stations. The change of law today has one purpose. I mean: to leave them in the hands of the deputies, to free certain camps, or deserts, of hunting. Hence the change, and this change will be possible. We, seeing this change coming, made a suggestion and it was inserted. That is to say, there are many exceptions to the pursuit of the dangers, and we said it would be proper to place the limits of public interest in them. We agreed to the contribution, but the proposal seems to us to have improved a little. So, supposing it was a step ahead, we're on the side of the proposal. That's right, now we're talking about doing what he said and we'll be watching.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u38	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In conclusion, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u39	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. I will be very brief, they will not be able to hold me responsible for delaying playful events after this plenary session. And, aside, because this subject does not give either for the dialectics of Demosthenes or for Aristotelian philosophies. This is a topic that simply goes hunting. Hunting is a legal activity in this country, it is practiced by tens of thousands of citizens, but, when practiced with firearms, it is very regulated to try to establish compatibility with other uses of the territory, usually more peaceful. In this regard, it is logical that a Member, who is responsible for the management of hunting, at a given time decides to close fixed hunting posts because he understood that they were incompatible with urban growth and other uses of citizen leisure; it is legitimate for hunters to resort to justice because they understood that it was not correct, and it is fair that the judge, in a strict reading of the current Hunting Act, kept those hunting posts because the law said that pre-law posts were immobile. However, it is legitimate, fair and logical for this Parliament to take the decision to change legislation in this respect in order to allow Members greater flexibility in the search for this necessary compatibility between the various activities of the environment. That is what we have done, and that is why we voted yes. All I have to do is thank all the parliamentary groups for the very good willingness they have had with this proposal to speed up its processing and for having approved it as soon as possible. And finally, good Christmas to everyone and to the hunters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u40	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Third point in theme list: "The legal proposition made by Podemos parlamentary team together, concerning the tax on the tourists of Eukadicus. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we're going to argue without reading it. As they're on the side shift and the other side, in turn, apart from Podemos, someone else wants to participate? So, Mr. Hernandez has a word with him in the Podemos team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u41	Good morning, Congressmen. We present for your consideration a proposal of law for the creation of the tax on tourist stays in the Basque Country. A more popular measure known as the famous "tourist tax". The objective we set ourselves would be to establish a tax figure that would not have a negative impact on tourism, but a positive impact on our economy, on public services and on the tourism sector itself, in our view. A tool by which public coffers could raise valuable revenue to meet the additional costs that tourism generates for the territories and, in particular, for the cities with the highest incidence of tourism. Additional costs currently borne by the citizens of Euskadi and, in particular, by the localities with the greatest impact of tourism; expenses such as road cleaning, waste collection, traffic, infrastructure and others. Since tourism certainly generates income, it also generates a number of costs associated with the services provided by the localities and territories that host it. This law does not mean that these expenses are borne by those who visit us, but it does seek to guarantee their just contribution so that they are not an extraordinary burden for the neighbors and neighbors of the municipalities. It would also be a source of resources to reinvest in the sector itself and improve its balanced development throughout the territory of the autonomous community. This rate, already implemented, as you well know, in Catalonia and the Balearic Islands, as well as in Germany, France, Holland or Italy, among other countries in our environment, is having satisfactory results in all of them. In Europe there are more countries that have established a tourist rate than those that do not. In the case of Paris, for example, this tax has a long tradition, since it has been applied for 25 years. In Italy, some cities of a marked tourist character apply this rate. Thus, to give some examples, Rome, since December 2010, applies a tax of between three and five euros per night. Later, Venice and Florence, in 2011, approved in their respective municipalities this tribute, which in these cities ranges between one and five euros, based on the category of accommodation. Germany, for its part, applies a tax to tourists in accommodation which it charges with 5% of the amount of the stay. To date, this measure has been developed by cities such as Hamburg, Cologne and Berlin. And a similar rate is also applied in many other European cities, such as Amsterdam, Vienna, etc. This is, therefore, a trend that is becoming widespread at global level and in our European environment, and which is of great interest because of the economic benefits it can bring to the country, especially at the municipal level. As you know, tourism in Euskadi has experienced a significant increase in recent years. And that's good. In fact, tourist spending has been increasing by millions of euros, representing an increase, between 2011 and 2018, of more than 20%, assuming an increasing percentage of the gross domestic product of the Basque Country. Thus, the growing evolution of this sector and its impact on the economy, employment and the places where it is concentrated are evident. This growth requires an effort by the public administrations, responsible for the management of public services, and the necessary infrastructure to ensure a balance between the attention to local citizens and the people who visit us. And all this, in our opinion, highlights the need to make it possible to apply this tax to stays in tourist establishments in the Basque Country, so that the expenditure of necessary public services does not fall exclusively on local citizens, but rather that those who generate part of it also contribute to their financing. The proposed law consists of 17 articles distributed in three titles, one additional provision, one transitional provision, one derogatory provision and three final provisions. Title I contains the general provisions, refers to the object of the law, which is to regulate the essential elements of the tax on tourist stays in the Basque Country, and also regulates the nature, allocation and compatibility of the tax created with other taxes; Title II regulates the elements of the tax, and Title III regulates the rules of administration, the application of the tax and the sanctioning regime. The proposed law includes an additional provision containing a mandate to the Government to prepare, within two and a half years, and every three years thereafter, a report assessing the impact of the law within the framework of the general principles of effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability, an issue that we find interesting. Finally, there is a transitional provision enabling the general boards of each historical territory to incorporate the content of this law into the general tax rule for each of them, and three final provisions empowering the external budget rules to modify the quantitative elements of the tax. It seems important to us to remind this Parliament that several municipalities in the autonomous community have been asking for the possibility of establishing the so-called "tourist tax". The most interested, you know, in the establishment of this measure, due, surely, to the greater impact of tourism that it receives, is that of our capitals, that of one of our capitals, that of Donostia, where several motions have been approved requesting the creation by the Basque Government of this measure. The last one, unanimously, last July. But the debate has been open for years – not only in Donostia, where the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, despite not seeing it clear at first, now these groups in the city council seem to be at the top of the tourist rate and even announced it in a bowl and dish last week. The debate, as I said, has been open for years, not only in Donostia, not only in Gipuzkoa, whose General Councils have also just urged the Basque Government to develop a framework for the establishment of a tourist tax, but it is a debate with which we have been autonomous for a few years. We have discussed this in this House, in this legislature, at the initiative of our coalition, in 2017. It is a debate, in our opinion, where some and other institutions have passed the ball and dizzying the loser with different arguments and excuses. Almost everyone is in favour of the tourist rate, or "conceptually" favorable, that would say the former Retortillo advisor, but no one has just put on the table the initiative that makes it real. In our opinion, this is because no one dares to take the opposite of the hotel management, which, logically, opposes the measure. Well, we have dared and brought this proposal of law to create the necessary and appropriate framework for this measure to be, at last, a reality in the municipalities and territories that are interested and that have been demanding it for a while to this part. First, we try not to propose legislation, as you know, in 2017, so that it is the government that will lead this issue. But finally, after the opinion of the new tourism adviser, rather contrary to the establishment of this rate, we think that it is time to bring the proposal for a law to debate, at the risk of losing the vote and, therefore, of not coming out, on this occasion, the initiative. For the implementation of this rate by the municipalities that consider it appropriate – something in which we have coincided with the different groups – it is necessary to create foral regulations in those historical territories in which these municipalities are located. And this foral regulation specifies the creation of the tax legal figure by the Basque Parliament. This bill, following the parliamentary procedure and with the possible contributions of other parliamentary groups and various actors, would empower this legal figure. We know that today Parliament is going to reject the creation of the tourist rate with the vote against the same of the parties that support the government: the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. In our view, this is not only contradictory to the positions held by the institutional leaders of these same parties in the Gipuzkoa Diputation and in the Donostia City Council, but also contradictory to the approach begun by the previous Tourism Councillor, Mr Retortillo, and therefore, in our opinion, constitutes a change of orientation in the Government itself. We know that the current counsellor, as I said, is contrary to the tourist rate and has already ruled it out. This change of direction in the Government is not, logically, due to the mere personal opinion of the adviser, or we believe so, but is, in our view, motivated by pressure from the sector or, rather, from the employers of the sector, which is contrary to this measure because it understands that it harms them. For our group, this measure we propose is in the general interest. It can then be adapted to the parliamentary procedure, but we think that it allows the rate to be implemented in those municipalities and territories that claim it, without affecting those who do not claim it, thus having a positive impact on public services. Therefore, in our view, the measure is in the general interest. And that is what motivates us to bring it to debate today. As legitimate as the interest, in this case, of a sector's employer, we believe that the general interest should prevail, and not the opposite. We believe that to support the beginning of the process of this bill is to support the general interest; we believe that to oppose the processing of this law is to oppose the general interest or at least to place the particular interest of a sector above the general interest. At the Board of Tourism, the previous councillor, Mr Retortillo, after studying the issue, began to raise with the different actors the need to move forward in a law in the Basque Parliament to set the tourist rate. It was found, as we can read in the minutes of the Bureau of Tourism, with the opposite position of the sector, with the opposite position, not exactly for the same reasons, of the deputies of Bizkaia and Álava, and with the favorable position of the deputy of Gipuzkoa. But the fact is that the previous councillor, Mr Retortillo, raised at that table the contributions of the various agents, but clearly proposed to move forward with this issue. We believe that what has happened since that meeting is that it has weighed more the pressure and opinion of one of the agents, which is that of the employer of the sector, than other opinions. And the truth is that we regret it because we believe that this proposal of law, if it came to a good port and if it became a law, would allow those municipalities that have the greatest affection of tourism, and that they are also claiming, for this reason, to be able to implement this rate, they could have it, without the rest of the municipalities being forced to implement it. We therefore believe that it is a good measure and that it is a measure that does no harm to anyone. And we think that at some point this measure will come forward. We regret that it is not today through this bill, but our parliamentary group and all the parties in our coalition will continue to insist on this issue in the three institutions: in municipalities, in councils and also here in the Basque Parliament. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u42	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. We'll go to the opposite round. Anyone else besides Damborene? No. So, Monsieur Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u43	Yeah. Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Hernandez. As you yourself said, two years ago they brought this up. Two years ago this Parliament approved one thing, which was for the administrations to agree with Eudel, with the municipalities. Which your bill doesn't do. Man, it is still curious that in Spain, which is one of the most touristic countries in the world, which receives about 90 million tourists a year, twice the population of all Spaniards, there are only two autonomous communities where they have imposed this rate for some time. No one knows what has solved this rate in Catalonia or the Balearic Islands, except to collect more, not the municipalities, the Generalitat, in its case, of Catalonia and, in its case, of Balearic Islands. And this, we all know. And, let's see, here's an argument that's peculiar. I'll just say peculiar. Because your argument in the explanatory statement and here today tells us that if a tourist comes, of course, uses means of transport, generates garbage, but pays it. Or what? That a tourist doesn't pay the bus if he rides? Or don't you pay the cab if you ride? And if it generates garbage, aren't the hotel establishments paying the rate for that garbage? Of course he does! Like we pay everybody else. That's what municipal fees are for. Hey, what about income? Do they generate income? Do Basque administrations raise more money thanks to tourism? Which is one of the peculiarities that you see. Because, see, I'm from Bilbao, I live in Bilbao. Of course, I do not see Bilbao City Council at all concerned about the expenses it generates, but it is also dedicated to trying to make events in Bilbao, to come congresses, to come rugby matches, football matches, whatever it is, to come people, to generate more money and get more income. And you want to tax it. I don't know why or why. Because what you're proposing is not that, it doesn't even tax your bill. Do you know what it says? Wealth. And I'm going to the article you put in your bill. It records the unique economic capacity of natural persons, which is evidenced by their stay in the establishments. This is what you propose to tax on your bill. I am not going to go too far because we have had this debate on several occasions, but I am going to tell you one thing. This is a competence issue. And we've always told him. And here there are three administrations that have different regulations and they regulate taxes differently. Here plays the Economic Concert, which is the one that gives the general boards of the territories the capacity to regulate what the Economic Concert says, not other things. This is where the LOFCA works, which gives this Parliament the capacity to create new taxes. And in municipal matters, the Local Regime Act works. By the way, since you are going to be in the Government of Spain, modify it so that throughout Spain the city council you want can create an ordinance or a fee that covers this. That would be the way. What is not the way is what you propose. Because you ask us here to pass a law, which is not complied with, depending on what each city council wants. And that's not possible. Or we create a tax by law and it applies throughout the community. But you, what you can't say later is that the municipalities decide whether to apply it or not, or even, as you come to say, that the municipalities modify the tax. Final provision 1 : "The fiscal ordinances of the Basque municipalities may modify the elements and quantification of the tax that regulates the law". Hey, this is a joke. What kind of law do you propose we pass here? One that doesn't legislate anything? One that says it's the municipalities that's going to legislate? Well, that doesn't fit. Here, it is possible to create a tax, as in the next point, that of the evil so-called water canon, which is another autonomous tax. That does fit. You'll agree or not, but it fits. What is not to be said here is that we are going to pass a tax law, but the municipalities will decide whether or not it applies, or how it applies or when it applies. And besides, what you pay or what you don't pay. This is a joke, what you brought us here today as a bill, and you know it. Because he's brought us exactly the same thing he brought us two years ago as a non-law proposal, and now he's given it the form... so he's copied what some have done out there, but wrong. But bad. And, of course, as you will understand, as much as you say that the General Boards will approve within six months on tax matters whatever you want, that is not going to be so. That is not going to be the case because this Parliament does not have this capacity to do so. And, secondly, there is no need; for the general tax rule of each territory applies to all tax rules, whatever they may be. It does not refer to this tax in this way, this in this way and this in this way, is generic for all taxes. And, look, we don't see any use for him, except to collect more. I don't know what the problem you've seen to bring us this, but I'm sure you're sure there's a problem and the problem fixes it like you all fix it: "Well, let's create another tax, and that's it, fixed the problem." Now, if the problem is that many tourists come who spend a lot, don't charge them a euro, cover them 100. Sure! Cover them 100 or 200. Because, what is it about, more tourists coming or less coming? What's this tax for? So he can keep it from the Basque Government? Because I remind you that transportation, garbage and so on, there are municipal rules that regulate these fees, that are paid in exchange for a municipal service. In exchange for a municipal service, and we all pay for it, some more and some less. That's true too. And I just think it's clear that we're going to vote against your bill again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u44	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. To answer, together, Podemos. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u45	Very briefly, only to respond to Mr Damborenea, who at least had the detail to explain his opposite position, which of course we do not share, and that is why we bring the proposal of law. To clear two things up. Tourism generates income, of course. Many times in these debates it has been intended to interpret that those who defend this measure are against tourism, that we criticize tourism or that we criticise the goodness and positive effects that tourism can have on our autonomous community. Of course, that is not the position of the Elkarrekin Podemos coalition, for whom tourism is one more sector, and it is a tourism that obviously has positive affections in our autonomous community. And I think it is important to clarify this because too often politics is used to try to pretend that the public considers that we are opposed to tourism. And this is not the case. And I have also said this in my speech: indeed, tourism generates income, and that is good. I think I said "and that's good." We do not oppose tourism. What we do think is that certain impacts of tourism must be regulated, and we think that the tourist rate is a good measure for the issues I have raised. Because, yes, there are already taxes on accommodation when they pay garbage, when they pay water, etc., but tourism has an impact that significantly increases in certain locations the spending on these issues. And in municipalities like Donostia – although this last year has not been the case – in the previous three-year period, neighbors and neighbors have seen the rate of garbage, water, with very high percentages. And an important part of that impact has to do with tourism. And, therefore, it does seem to us that this measure could also help to address those issues. And, of course, it would also be a positive measure for tourism itself, because it would allow a part of that money to be reinvested in improving the quality of our tourism, in redistributing tourism within our community and empowering those places that currently have the least impact of tourism but that, developing an appropriate policy, could also have those goodness of that tourism that we are talking about. The proposition of law, we think it is well written and is correct. Also, of course, we do not believe we have the whole truth and, of course, we know that it is a proposal for a law and that it has a parliamentary procedure where issues can be cleared up and where it can be adapted among all groups as the final law would be, but we think that the tourist rate is positive. And I think the People's Party is the only group that really is against this figure. I think you've explained it perfectly. I only hope that the rest of the groups, which in one way or another have been positioning themselves favorably at the tourist rate with nuances or by territories, will finally come up with the formula to put it into practice. Because you say to me, "No, it was asked in that GNP." By the way, what was asked is the compromise that you agreed to and that my group voted against. However, the institutions were called upon to agree. It is not in the hands of the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos, nor of any of the parties in our coalition that we do not govern in any of these institutions, nor in the main municipalities affected, nor in the parliaments, nor, logically, in the autonomous community. But the truth is that with this issue we have already been in a few years where or do not agree or continue to ask that we continue to study and ask for reports that have already been known, all kinds of reports. The Gipuzkoa Chamber of Deputies recently, I think a week or two ago, has asked the Basque Government to empower the figure that can make the tourist rate set. The City Council of Donostia in July, repeatedly, because it has been doing so for several years, has asked. And, therefore, it seems to me that the set of political organizations in government responsible administrations are not responding to a need. We brought an initiative here because we worked and because we thought it could be a formula. And we brought her in knowing she wasn't going to make it. I appeal to the rest to do their part as well. I'm not going to say they don't work, but they've been dizzying the loser for many years now and turning this issue around. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u47	Mr Hernandez, you again set me the example of Donostia and tell me: "The garbage rates have risen disproportionately...". Well, it turns out that municipal groups are jets, because in their hand they have to raise the garbage rate to the hotels and hotels, and not to the rest, if they really care, right?, the subject of tourism. In their hand they have it, tomorrow they can approve it, instead of going up to all the neighbors. The town halls have it in their hand. "Hey, there's a lot of tourists, it causes a lot of consumption in bars, in restaurants, in hotels. We raised the garbage rate to those establishments." That, you can do any town hall at any time. I don't know why no city council does it. Why don't they? What are we really discussing here? Second. You say they generate income. Man, of course they generate income. In 2017, you say, more than €4.4 billion. Those revenues, who collects them in taxes? The outlaws. And the money from the outlaws, more than 50%, where does it go? To the city halls. To the city halls. In other words, they are already receiving income money from the municipalities that generate tourism throughout the Basque Country. What happens is that, obviously, there are more tourist sites that can live from tourism and others that are not, which is most of the Basque Country, because it is that tourism here, except in Donostia, is incipient in the whole Basque Country, and in some areas, non-existent, as to put a generic tax for the whole Basque Country. And I repeat, listen, now that you are going to be in the Madrid government, you have it easy. If you want a municipality to be able to impose a tax or a tax, they amend the Local Regime Act and give the possibility that the municipalities can invent that tax, whether they want it or not, and that they regulate it according to the bases that they establish in their local regime law, for all the municipalities, not only of the Basque Country; of all Spain. From all over Spain. It is now a coincidence that this has never been approved in Andalusia, that this has not been approved in Valencia, that nothing similar has been approved in the Canary Islands and that they live far more than we live in tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u48	Now, since the dispute is over, what we shall vote about is whether the legal proposition be considered or not. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 28; the contrary, 45; the abstainments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u49	So the bill was ignored. Next, we'll go to the vote. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u50	Sí. Good morning. The Basque Socialists have voted against the proposed law formulated by Elkarrekin We can with regard to the tax on tourist stays in the Basque Country for the following reasons: firstly, because we share the unfavorable criterion expressed by the Basque Government before this initiative on 30 July; and secondly, because this initiative does not respect the agreement we adopted in this House, when we adopted in September 2017 a compromise amendment that we subscribed to by the Basque Nationalist, Basque Socialist and Basque People's groups, urging the Basque Government to establish an dialogue with Eudel to address a reflection on the establishment of the so-called tourist rate for its implementation at the municipal level, and to analyse with the Basque administrations and with the agents of the tourist sector the necessity or not of the implementation of the so-called tourist rate, as well as its characteristics, the procedure to be promoted and, if appropriate, its establishment. And in order to achieve compliance with this agreement, the Basque Government has carried out a number of actions. Firstly, an opinion was drawn up on the existing legal framework for the creation of a tourist tax in the Basque Country. That opinion was presented to the Tourism Bureau on 30 November 2018, and at that meeting both representatives of the sector and the various participating institutions expressed their views on the matter. They were opinions which were fundamentally divergent with regard to the institutions and which mostly raised an unfavourable view on the part of the representatives of the sector. A report was also requested from the Basque Treasury to analyse the different alternatives and areas in which a tax on overnight stays or the so-called bad tourist rate could be established. Subsequently, a meeting was held between the Basque Government, represented by the Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, with representatives of Eudel and with the institutions, and the minutes set out a number of alternatives and areas in which a tax on overnight stays could be established. The various options were: the creation of a new municipal tax by the State, the creation of a territorial foral tax, the creation of a new tax within the area of local taxes, the creation of a municipal tax, or the incorporation of a surcharge in one of the five municipal taxes without creating new taxes. And local institutional representation does not have a unanimous approach to the implementation of this overnight tax. And while the City Council of San Sebastián has a unanimous plenary agreement, both the representatives of the City Council of Bilbao and the representatives of the City Council of Gasteiz did not see, on the other hand, the need – at that time – for the establishment of that so-called tourist rate. And the representation of Eudel coincides with the Basque Government in that the reality of the municipalities is very diverse, and that, except for municipalities with greater acceptance from a tourist point of view, such as that of Donostia-San Sebastián, the others do not see the need to implement a tax of these characteristics generically, for all of Euskadi. However, Eudel, moreover, makes available to the municipalities that thus understood that it was necessary to establish this tax to explore the appropriate way to be able to articulate in their municipalities this fiscal ordinance. Finally, on 11 December last, a meeting of the Euskadi Tourism Bureau was held, at which the divergence of positions and assessments on the implementation of this tax were evident, with a clear majority of opposition to its implementation at the moment. And that is why the Basque Government, understanding the criteria of opportunity and necessity expressed at the various meetings and by different actors, rejects the possibility of introducing a tax on overnight stays for all of Euskadi, because it would not only be contradictory to a Basque tax model based on agreement, coordination and inter-institutional collaboration, but could also produce dysfunctions in tourism management policy, whose design is intended to be coordinated and agreed with Basque institutions and the tourism sector. And this position of the Basque Government neither hinders nor prevents the possibility of establishing a tax on the part of the outlaws and local institutions that consider positive their territorial or local implementation, as is the case or could be the case of the City Council of San Sebastián and the historical territory of Gipuzkoa, which analyzed in the years 2018 and 2019, in a presentation on tourism, among other matters, this question of the rate and has already expressed, since then, its favorable position. That is why the Basque Socialists have voted against taking this bill into consideration. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Casanova. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u52	Good morning, everyone. Our party voted, and voted for the consideration of this legal proposition, for two principal reasons: First, because, in principle, we believe that it must be allowed to be any legal proposition that comes here and fills a few of the minimum, to be the opposition, to be the government's... We don't care. If it does not contain serious defects in the form or essence, we believe that our attitude, as it is said of the effect, or of the youth, may be called por defecto. But, on the other hand, we must say that we agree with the quintessence and what is proposed to us, because we believe that the tourist rate has been solved that the rate is not the rate, and that in the end it will be a new tax, as we believe it would be an interesting contribution. It would be interesting, and I won't repeat the reasons I've given you, because I'm a big percentage together with the presentation of Jon Hernández. We believe that these options must be taken advantage of, that there are certain wants arising from the increase of tourism, and that, in order to face them, it is not at all bad to get new resources. When I heard Monsieur Damboea and asked what we get with this rate: "Only more money." Well, two anecdotes about old Rome have occurred to me: on the one hand, Brian's life. The other story is less frivolous; the other story of Rome that came to my head when I listened to you is a story that has to do with an emperor, Emperor Vespasian. When Suetonius wrote The life of the 12 Caesars The life of the 12 cesarean "Non olet" And we believe, moreover, that this law takes place in the discussion, and that, as well as all laws, we may be able to improve many technical considerations in the tramite, and it is true that there are also gaps and weaknesses in the law, but we bring a discussion which we think we ought to give. We do not think it necessary to apply this rate to all the townships, and by this law it was not. What was planned was that the council who wanted us to build a general frame took that step. And it is true that the reality of Tourism is not the same in Donostian or Barakalus or Bilbon or Balmasedan, but it is one of the elements which share this reality that the councils nowadays have no tools, so that if they want to establish the rate, they can establish it. And this demand exists, and the contradictions between parties have been mentioned before. And in Donostian, the parties here to present the red light to this law, say one more thing, and demand it, even in the great councils of Gipulia. And it is true that there are different opinions at the level of tourism, but what a coincidence I think is that this leads us to an important clue in places where they have just the greatest touristisms, these parties are on the side of setting the rate, and in places where Turism has not so great a dimension. Then, as a criterion, I imagine that parties in the epicrean of the appearance of tourism, or the representatives of the parties, are better acquainted with reality. And yes, it's true there are other rates that are paid by other taxes, other transports, etc., but you'll tell us... For instance, when buses are paid and buses are used, you don't pay the price of service on the ticket. Most of the services are, in some measure, defensive, and must be formed by other economic contributions. This is not an experiment. I end up with this François. If it were an experiment, as Eugenio d'Ors said: "Los experimentos, con gaseosa." Perhaps we should be a little afraid of it ourselves, but this rate is in many places out of the Spanish state and out of the state. And the only effect that has been produced in all places is, that what you have mentioned has been collected more money, that more money has been collected. And this, we think, would be a positive contribution, because the Turism, as well as any other activity, brings us, like educating economic activities, the good, the money, the tax collector, but also other negative qualities (others, the sobression of other services). And by this law we were willing to give to every one and every council a right to decide according to their reality. And it is a pity, after all, that we speak a great deal, but the sects that maintain the government will give the right of veto, and we shall again pass the whole law without taking a step in this necessary space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u53	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. The word is yours, ma'am. wide DERATE The precedent of this legal proposition in May 15, 2017, we have another proposal as agreed on in this legislature. At the table of Turism, November 30th, 2018, this subject was treated at the 5th point, where the tax was offered, and the representatives explained the opinions of their organizations and associations. Except for representatives of the Gipurian Fordundi, the rest had an opinion against the establishment of this tax. Mahai honetan spelluriko zalantza eta hausnarketa batzuk honor ekarri nahi said. Lehenengoa: zerga honen beharrizanaren azterketarik egon al da? Bigarrena: zergatik nahi zarri from zerga hau? Hirugarrena: it is unfair and discriminatory to impose only on those who spend the night a tax to cover the effects of those who only visit us, not to mention the costs of implementing and creating new dynamics for their collection. Eta laugerrena: does not help the dynamism of the sector. We have a data sector that's growing, and it's always been said that the organization and development of the sector must be combined with the other organizations and the sector. In the other proposition, as discussed in 2017, Mr. Hernandez, you said that the Government needed to speak to Eudel, operators, and institutions before making a legal proposition on this subject. This bill of law hasn't come in for fun, but it's got to do with the other kind of proposal, the operators involved in the Forum at the Forum table, and it's got a lot of work to do. The year has been a year for the Tourism Board. and after the 26th elections of May, Eudel and Foru have been formed. On the 20th of November past, the chief physician of Turmism, Commercius, and Constimos, the deputy chief physician of Ogastum, the representatives of the various townships of Gipus and Arbatua, and the general director and technician of the newly formed Eudel. On December 11 the new Turism Table met: as Mrs. Corcuera has explained what has been said in it, I shall not repeat it. On 18 December, the Tax Coordination Body, where the Government, parliaments and municipalities are represented, met. The meeting presented the report by the Department of Finance to the Basque Government on the tax on stays in tourist establishments, thus complying with PNL 109/2017. When we have examined the facts given, we must say that the tax which is planned in this legal proposition does not respond to a need in the Euscal. There would be no agreement between the situation of Turism and the situation in our country. The laws of the legislature must be laws to prevent the affairs, uneasinesses, or states of the Union; and when we have discussed the subject in different contexts, it is evident that it is not a member of the community, but a concern of certain particular nations. Eta gaiaren funtsa azaldu ondoren, lege-proposamenaren muinera passutuko naiz. This proposal for a law, let me say, speaks to us of a hybrid tax, raises an autonomous tax of voluntary municipal application. To be of voluntary municipal application it should be a municipal tax, we would not need an autonomous tax, and this Parliament has no competence to establish a local tax. This proposal for a law is not clear, it does not define three fundamental aspects that must be taken into account when making a tax: it does not define which institution is going to manage the tax, it does not define which institution is going to inspect the tax and it does not define which institution is going to collect the tax. But it is true that certain townships are favorable to a tax on tourists. And the government explained last week that, although it was not established in the townships, there is a chance of establishing the taxes of this kind. Although it is not the jurisdiction of the legislature, I will briefly explain it. Lehenengoa, a tax approved by the general boards of each historical territory. It would be necessary to approve the corresponding outlying rules in each of the territories and it might be understood that it would require consultation with the State Administration. It would probably be quite controversial processing. Eta, bigarrena, a state tax. Amend Law 2/2004 of 5 March, Local Finance Regulator, and include an optional tax on stays in tourist accommodation. Once the amendment of that law had been made, we would agree, it would be included in the outlaws and then the municipalities could include it in their fiscal ordinances. The debate on this state tax would not be new: the agreement of the Council of Ministers of 10 February 2017 constituted the commission of experts for the revision of the local financing system. The committee's report is published in July of this year. This report justifies the establishment of a tax on tourist stays at local level through the Local Regime Base Act, rather than an autonomous one, because most of the costs incurred by tourists are borne by local authorities. In short, the foundation of this proposition of the law would be a relief of the injurious effects which the touralism of Eukadin leaves, but in general it is not the reflection of a reality in which the Renaissance lives. So we don't see the need for a member of the community that will tax his stay today. That's why we voted against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Forth point on the theme list: "Mortion, María del López de Ocariz lópez de Munez de Munininka, a member of the Populative Group, about the change of the 1/2006 Law of June of Water in regard to the regulations of the water canon. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Team proposeer's turn. Miss Lopez de Octariz, your word is to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u55	Andreak. Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. We asked the Minister of the Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing about the second final provision included in the draft Budgets 2020 bill, a provision which in its statement says "amendment of Law 1/2006 of 23 June of Waters, in relation to the regulation of the canon of water". A substantial change: Chapter 8 is amended (the financial economic regime – this chapter has 13 articles –), nine articles are substantially amended: the tax is changed, the tax base is changed – now it is consumption, then it is going to be capture), the tax rate, the time of the debt, assumptions of non-subjection are created and the exemption and subsidy system is changed. As I said to you, an important amendment on which we consider from the People's Group that the procedure for dealing with an amendment of this size is through the legislative body, which is this House, the Basque Parliament, as we have already amended, this very morning, an article of the Hunting Act with the aim of solving a problem that arose in the drafting of that article. And the government knows how to make these urgent changes, by this House, and there are methods to do so. Because, look, the councillor came to this House to present the Budgets Act, which affected your department, and he forgot this little detail in the presentation. He took up questions from the People's Group. I don't know if it was the test to see if we read the budget, the same was the test. We usually do our job, all the good we can and that gives us time. But the councillor, on questions from the People's Group, told us "It is an initiative that comes mainly from the Department of Finance", but that from the environment this proposal is fully shared and that it was totally in agreement with the Finance initiative. Then, of course, when we're already in the interpellation, you fix the answer, don't you? And he says, "It's a joint reflection done by the Tax Administration and the Basque Water Agency." Man, we've already modulated, haven't we? The answer. And it says, well, "How do we improve the compliance and effectiveness of water management, after ten years passed the law?". And a modification, for what? To recover costs of water-related services and the real value of what costs the entire water cycle, including environmental costs. And the councillor said, "At present, domestic uses, agricultural uses or uncontrolled losses and leakages of the catch and supply networks are not subject to tax because the taxable fact is actual or potential consumption." Simplifying, the volume of water coming out of the tap. And, of course, this situation comes to just 14.6% of the consumption that pays, right?, just 14.6%. And with the proposed amendment, we widen the scope and raise 85% of the revenue. In all this justification has anyone heard any environmental term, any precision, any contribution to the environment? No, no, just box. This is the argument, increasing the collection, and indeed that collection is going to increase from what we are now collecting to what is expected to be 233%. And he always adds the vest, doesn't he?, "...in compliance with the principle of recovery of environmental costs." Of course, but it is that Mr Martínez de Cabredo also came to the committee and was asked how environmental costs are calculated, the damage caused by catchment in the water, and the answer is for note, for note: "The actual calculation of the damage? Well, it's very complicated, we don't know how to do it. We have consulted it in several agencies and they do not give us reason, it is very complicated, no, no, it is not easy to calculate the damage by capture. We don't know how to do it, we don't know how to associate it with an economic amount, it's a very complicated issue." Listen, and I ask: if you don't know how to do the calculation, if you don't know how to associate the economic amount with the capture, what does this canon come from, if you don't know how to do it? They've come up with it. Ah! You write by sensations, don't you?, we modify the law based on sensations. I have a feeling that the damage that happens is this. Because if they don't know how to do it, how do we legislate: with sensations? It's trembling, this is very strong. This government is constantly innovating, it is a tremendous thing. There is neither a report nor an environmental criterion that supports this change, there is no socio-economic impact report, there is no report that establishes a management system, there is no single initiative to reduce network losses, which are of great concern to you. Or not? Because, of course, I already think they don't care. Why? Well, because the more the capture increases, the more the canon increases, the more the losses, the more the capture increases, which sums it up in income, and how you are to collect, so that's it. There is no User Assembly report. Listen, look, we consumers have been paying for water for a very long time, and we have paid for it according to the ordinances of the managing bodies. It is the taxable fact of the water supply rate that the water supply networks are available and the consumption of water from them. There is also the sanitation rate, the taxable fact of which is the actual or potential discharge of waste water from public or private supply. The managing bodies, the municipalities, the consortia, the administrative boards have been in this autonomous community for many years through their ordinances setting different rates according to consumption, precisely to boost water saving. And I wonder: are you going to make yourselves responsible for managing the canon? Because now it will turn out that in addition to imposing a tax on us, we will have to bear the costs of management, and this would be already for the record. All this poking around, taking responsibility for management... from who? Of the entities. And who pays? Consumers, users. And I repeat: years, managing entities, regulating water rates, prioritizing good use and encouraging water saving practices. And those who consume the most, in fact, pay the most, with variable quotas, as they have considered appropriate, canon bars according to consumption. And you didn't think, you didn't expose an environmental criterion to this? No, they don't think about environmental criteria, they think about their box, when the basis of water management must be to guarantee water as a right that is and preserve it as a natural resource. I remind you that in 2010 the United Nations General Assembly explicitly recognized the human right to water and sanitation, and they say in that recognition: "Administrations will use technical and financial resources to provide a necessary supply of safe, clean, accessible and affordable drinking water and sanitation for all". This, you haven't been worried about, I haven't seen an exemption for the one who... I don't know, we have a bonus for those who can't pay the energy; do you have a bonus for those who can't pay this rate, those who are in poverty? They haven't established it. No, no, What's going on? But what the United Nations General Assembly does not say anywhere is that administrations will manage water as a business at the expense of citizens. They forget the natural resource, forget the human right to water and focus exclusively on the economic interest, give them a premium and deprive them of the natural resources at the expense of the citizens. And I wonder: environmental objectives, increased efficiency, responsible consumption, good water management, environmental protection... This, what? Let the managing bodies do it. Of course, you guys don't, you guys, box. For this we don't need URA or these rugs. From the Group of the European People's Party we want to shed light and stenographers on this amendment of the law, which implies, which affects consumers, users, managing bodies, the environment and the various sectors; in short, that they have a logical transit through this House and that we deepen the objectives we want to achieve and the methods and measures to be established. Something logical, something normal, something that is usually done in this House, but you have not considered it that way. You have come to the trap, through the back door, in a provision of the Budgets Act without announcing it in your presentation of the Budgets, which does not announce it, that if it comes out it is because we ask it; if not, it goes unnoticed. That's hiding information, that's non-transparency, that's that we care about a cucumber users, consumers and citizens. You are interested in making cash, and that is the purpose of this amendment. That is why we have tabled a motion calling on the Basque Government to refer to Parliament the proposal to amend this law, the Water Act, which you are proposing. That I'm not against modifying or not modifying. What we want is for you to have a legal, clear, transparent, clear transit, that we are all informed (managers, users, consumers), that we have information, that we know what is going to change and that the majority will then decide. But not this dictatorship that you impose. And what we are asking is for that amendment to be brought in, that... that they plan to regulate the water canon, which is provided for in the final provision, and that they add the socio-economic and environmental reports that justify such a modification and those that we consider appropriate, and that we resolve in this House with the majorities that give rise to this proposal, the reports that they endorse and those people who can appear and provide their criteria. Something logical and normal. That's why we're here. And that is why I ask you to vote in favour. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u56	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, before we begin to debate the motion, the non-law proposal brought to us by the People's Party on the modification of the water canon, I would like to make a little reflection on green taxation, because in the background the water canon is part of what we call green taxation and that in the end everyone in this House, all of us, we say defend. The Green Prosecutor's Office, in the end, has a dual objective: on the one hand, to tax unsustainable behaviour with the environment or the use of scarce resources, and, on the other hand, to raise funds for the improvement or restoration of the environment, mainly in the case of taxes and finalist fees, as is the case with this water bill. In 2006, when the Water Act was passed, it was considered appropriate to introduce a green taxation tool, such as the water canon. And our group or the parties that at the time were in the political arena then defended this green tax instrument and we continue to defend it now, with the changes that have been made. Hence, the objects of the canon of water, seeing the green taxies or taxies, are on the one hand to punish the idle or excessive use of water; and on the other, to improve and repair the ecological state of streams and rivers, in order to repair the damages which have been suffered during the last decades by rivers and by burns. 13 pass pass will say kanona onartu zenetik, age, gure ustez, bad eguneratzeko station. It is time to update it, it is time to update it and not to delay its update. Bearing in mind that the director of Aguas himself mentioned that, in any case, this rate, although approved now, will enter into force on 1 January 2021, we believe that further delaying its start-up, its modification, does not make any sense, does not make any sense. The People's Party refers to the absence of economic studies, and that is not true. The economic study is here. We'll like it more or less, it'll be more or less complete, like almost everyone the government does, but being, is. Why do we understand our group that now is the time to update that water cannon? Well, there are two important issues. One, the administrative or operational technical problems that have been encountered by the Government and which were also highlighted at the presentation of the Director of Water. The canon is being charged at one year's notice. Thousands and thousands of receipts are being issued to families. And we also have that only 14% of the water is now subject to cannon. We are therefore making partial and discriminatory use of a tax that should be fair and equitable. And there is another issue that has changed over the past 13 years with regard to when the water canon was approved, and it is the climate emergency. And some of you will say, "There's Mr. Becerra again with the weather emergency. How heavy!", but the reality is that, despite what we are seeing now, today, floods, water trumpets, the effects of climate change – let's say – linked to storms, episodes of scarcity of fresh water will arrive – without a doubt, will arrive. They will also reach us to Euskadi, as we have in the past. And there will be episodes of water stress in our rivers and streams, and they are coming every summer. Euskadi is a community with a high dependence on a single supply system, which is that of the Zadorra reservoirs. And depending, having all the eggs in the same basket makes us very vulnerable to the future. We are, therefore, in urgent need – and we cannot wait for one or two more years – to promote water saving, we must reward reuse and we must punish waste, so that with all these measures we can increase the flow of our rivers and streams, not only the ecological flow, not only the minimum flow, but also the flow they usually carry. I would not like to finish my speech without referring to a fundamental issue that Mrs López de Ocariz has also said and which is important, that of progressive taxation. Because green taxation, like all indirect taxation, has been blamed for not being progressive, not being progressive, that, in fact, we all pay the water bill equally, we have the resources we have. Well, the advantage of the new canon is that it stops applying to families, it stops applying to families. It applies to the managing bodies. And to the extent that it applies to the managing bodies, and that it may possibly lead to an increase in water tariffs, possibly – and it must be recognised that this is so – to the extent that the managing bodies apply progressive tariffs – and some are applying them and others are not, but the ideal would be to apply them – the non-progressiveness to which Mrs López de Ocariz refers will disappear. True, it is true that with the new fee, if the collection is increased it is because, at last, the losses are imputed, at last the losses are imputed. That is why, in our amendment, we have not only referred to the issue of water saving and reuse, but also to the important question of the Basque Government starting to consider, within the investments it supports today in water supply and sanitation, also investments in improving and renewing our supply networks, so that they do not have to face up to this burden alone, but that the Basque Government – with objective and transparent criteria, of course – is involved in this task for the future. But we do not consider that the imputation of the losses is something that should be blamed on the Basque Government, but that our political groups, all of them, will have to act in the governing bodies of the managing bodies – and the People's Party is and Elkarrekin Podemos is, and the rest of the House's groups are – so that those managing bodies behave fairly enough to not endorse the problem to the families, which is ultimately what concerns us, both Mrs López de Ocariz and our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u58	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing the teams that don't run, the Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u59	Thank you, President, and good morning to everyone and everyone. First, I would tell Mrs López de Ocariz that I believe that the subject should be treated less frivolously. You have been able, at the end of your speech, even to mix energy poverty and what has been done in this House to talk about what will be paid through the water canon, and I remind you that this Member presented 20 initiatives on energy poverty and on 20 occasions you always felt equally bad. Not to mention the position of the Group of the European People's Party with regard to the debate, amendments, position and vote on this law, which also included, as we all know, the canon of water. It is good to worry now, but perhaps we should have been concerned from the very beginning and have contributed what each political party understood to be best, and not the no for the no, which was the position of the People's Party at that time of discussion of that law. My speech is going to be almost another way, in other words, what Mr Arriola has already explained to you, but which he does not finish convincing you. I no longer know if in this legislature you have a crusade in what it has to do with everything that the Basque Water Agency manages, with the director of the Basque Water Agency and with any proposal, decision, debate, award... All that has to do with URA, you question it and you make it all a mantra and a flag that you have taken throughout this legislature, which I do not know if you intend to let go at any time and will accept some of the things that Mr Arriola said at that time and that I am going to try to repeat to you today perhaps otherwise. The proposed amendment to Law 1/2006 on Waters, in relation to the canon, as I say, arises from a comprehensive analysis of its application and management. Analysis that is not valid for you, report that you deny and that, although we tell you that it is the report of the tax control of the canon of water managed by URA, it is also not valid for you. It is a tax technical amendment to the Water Act that does not affect the computer principles of regulation as set out in that Act, which are not other than the contribution to the sustainable use of public water services – whether this is environmental or not – and the contribution to the recovery of the costs incurred, including the financial, environmental, infrastructure and resource costs, where, in addition, the amounts collected are devoted to pollution prevention, financing of investment costs, as well as to the achievement of a good ecological state of the water mass. Let's see if you think that this is not an environmental criterion either. These principles are not affected in any case by the proposed amendment, and it has been widely informed and discussed with the main water managers of the territory, such as consortia and joint ventures, which must be taken into account because they are the ones who manage and with which it has been understood that, from the point of view of simplification and administrative agility, and being basically a tax change, the most appropriate thing was their processing by incorporation as a final provision in the draft budget law. Whether Mr Arriola spoke of this or not at the hearing, it is not a question of concealing, because it is in the document, it is in the draft that you received, that you were able to study and that it is clear that you have analysed, because, of course, I will not doubt the work that you do in this House. So don't look beyond what's not there. You asked, you were answered. Therefore, nothing to hide, there is no opacity, there is nothing that the Socialist Group is going to defend in something you intend to see. So we understand that the motion of the People's Party would do nothing but delay and, ultimately, freeze a modification that is deemed necessary and that can drive a conception of water management in Euskadi from the point of view of the entire water cycle. I will try to explain some of the reasons and effects of the proposed amendment, which are already known to all of you and which, moreover, I know, before listening to your second intervention, that you will be given exactly what I say to you. The proposed amendment to Chapter 8 of the Water Act of 23 June is based on the following reasons: to move forward with the principle of recovery of environmental costs laid down in the directive, to bring in line with that principle the fact that the impact on the environment is impermissible, to simplify administrative procedures and to improve tax management – indeed, to simplify administrative procedures is something that we ask the Administration again and again, because we understand that the citizen, and all those who need it, must obtain all the facilities from the Administration, and finally, to promote the efficient use of water and its reuse. The water canon, which as we all know has been in force since 1 January 2009, was created in accordance with this Community principle of recovery of environmental costs to which you referred, so that the amounts collected are devoted to pollution prevention, financing of investment costs and, as I have told you before, to recovering the ecological state of the water body. Environmental taxation, to which Mr Becerra referred, basically seeks to change the behaviour of agents and citizens, as well as to obtain funds to finance actions aimed at achieving the objectives of hydrological planning. Something we also often talk about, but when we want to look for the tool and be able to support it, we are against it. The canon of water, therefore, unfolds in a clear context. We were all clear about what was intended when it was supported by those who at the time gave the support, and now it seems that everything is being questioned; I do not know very well whether it is by whom it is managed or what it is actually intended to do. However, according to current legislation, not all uses of water so far contribute to recovering the costs of damage or adverse effects on the aquatic environment. With the proposed regulatory amendment, which includes a new definition of the taxable act and the reduction of exemptions and bonuses, it is intended to advance the achievement of the objectives set by the law for the canon of water, by increasing the scope of the tax. Therefore, we defend – as it cannot be otherwise – the amendment proposed by the Government as necessary, serious and rigorous. It focuses on capture rather than consumption, so de facto It is therefore clear what was the object of the Government when it proposed it in the draft budgets, and it is clear that it is understood that it is the best way to speed up, simplify and, of course, not freeze what the People's Party claims to be, but that with its parliamentary initiative it would mean carrying out a much longer process in time than is going to be through the budgets that appear to be going to be adopted in the coming weeks. We will therefore vote against Mrs López de Ocariz's proposal. And the groups that we support in the Government do not make any amendments because we were clear that it was voting for or against the amendment, yes or no. But in view of the amendment tabled by Mr Becerra and the Group of the European People's Party, we will support it and vote in favour. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u60	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u61	Good morning again. I do not know whether they are aware of the mess they are going to make and the damage they are going to cause with the proposal to amend the canon and the Water Act which they are going to try to adopt, as Mrs López de Ocariz has said, through the back door of the Budgets, and this is a substantial amendment. The intention, the plan, is mentioned by the Françoise, as says the rules of Europe, that the senses should not be disturbed by the water's canon, and that the "Crushing" should be paid if it were to obey the principle, it does not seem to us that things are doing well. The intention, on the other hand, is to stifle little managers, to steal disputes from the legislature, and to give URA an extra amount of money, so you're right. And before I say more, I mean that the Basque People are in agreement with the Canon of the Water, and, as has been said, with the number of things this brings them: With re-establishment of costs, we agree with the sympathizing of the tramitation, we agree with the impulse of the restoration of water, as our Water's Law directs, and as the European law of the Water. And we agree, too, when we say the water canon is an environment of the environment. And we agree that we now take too much water from the masses of water, and that this is in the state of environment when it is said to have consequences. "Incluso, inclusus, we may agree, if it had been the opportunity to draw some shades, it would have to be paid at the time of the battle to drink water; but time, time, and opportunity have been, because this discussion has been stolen from the parliamentary. And I'd say that we agree with the need for more money through the URA, through the canon. If you remember, from the first priors, we said that the URA Agency has a lot to do and that it has little money, and that, through the canon, it wasn't logical to get two million and a half of them. In this law we have often been answered, that Covenants cannot be fulfilled, because there is a breach of mony. And several agreements signed by URA with different administrations could not be completed because there is but little money to be done. The Arrian often answers my question in parliamentary questions: "Falta de disconilidad presupuestari," isn't it? Here are the accounts of the Busan, the accounts of the Mitya, or the examples of various places. So it's a lack of money. But it is one thing, that the justest of Europe agree with what is said, and that he who injures or injures him ought to endeavour to fulfil the principle, and another to agree with the direction shown by this change of laws, and to agree with the manner in which this change of laws has come. I think that today we have had an example of the law of hunting: how a change of laws can be improved, and how it can be effected through the legislature. I think the road is open and our disposition has been open. I won't go too far into the contents, because we have some concerns there, but we feel that a memory on six pages does not seem to make a change of a law which brings great changes of tools. I hear you've been tested. Where are the exams? URA said he'd talked to the managers, but we've talked to a lot of managers, and they haven't heard anything about it. You've talked to three, four, five great managers, and everybody out of there is a lot of them. And with some of the managers, who are small or middle-class, they've told us amazing things when we talk. Let me give you an example: U. Patzer of the Busan. The Ur Patzerger of the Busan gives 45,000 people water, but there may be many other cases. After a few simple calculations, at least, the Ur Patzeruer of the Busan, with the new canon, will arrive at least 30,000 in payment. That minimum increase in 200,000 dollars is a lot, isn't it? Well, it's exactly 30% of his investment money. What's going on? That the changes you proposed do not take into account the characteristics of each administrator. Small examiners usually have a larger area, they stay in a few restricted areas, they have a much larger networker, they have less income and income because they have fewer users. So, what's going to happen? That they'll have to pay more for the cannon, that they'll have less income and less money to improve the net. And that's going to be a vicious circle. The fact is, it is very different, it is very different, that you did not put it in the change of law: Amvis gives water to 2500,000 people at the Gaste Gate and his pipes are 210 miles away. The U.R. of Bustur is giving water to 45,000 people, and it's about 850 kilometers of pipes. So I don't think it's logical that, logically, it's been completely remote and that here they're going to have a terrible problem with the country spirit. Zer gertatuko yes? Inbertsiari edo inbertsioa egiteko duten ahalmenari haginkada bat emango zaiola kanon berriak kobratzeko orduan; beraz, galera gehiago izango dituzte, kanon-ordainketa gehiago etorriko da, éta abar, éta abar. I mean, put the little manager in a diabolical spiral. More and more canon, more and more money for investment, more and more canon that will go to URA, which has not explained how it will distribute this collection. There is no minimally detailed economic study of the impact of the measure or of the distribution of efforts. For example, it is not taken into account that the reduction of water loss in rural areas is much more complicated. And for smaller managers, the added administrative work that will come with the modification should also not be underestimated. Laburbilduz, laburbilduz: if the idea of the canon was to penalize excessive consumption – i.e., if you like to shower for an hour, if you like to waste, you will have to pay – and that wasn't finished controlling, it couldn't be made effective, now it's said: "Bah! Now the waste pickers are the managers. Then we charge them directly, and so we will penalize them." Who will be harmed by this change? Of course, all the small managers, who have not been spoken to and who have not been asked for an opinion, as we have already been told. It will not in any case benefit those who make or are making the most effort, in fact, already, to minimize losses, but those who by their territorial and population structure are more grouped and more dense. And this is more fleas for the skinny dog, forcing them to make the decision to raise prices a lot or stop investing. And I don't think that should be the idea. Eta, hen, hau guztia, eztabaida Legebiltzar honors the portutute age ur-kudeatzail gehiena iritzia eskatu gabe. And we should talk – and it has not been talked about – about the fate of the money that is going to be collected and the needs that exist. According to the Water Framework Directive, the destination should be pollution prevention, financing of investment costs and improvement of the state of water bodies. Above all, much has been said in this Parliament. There was an initiative in 2017, in October, which was unanimously adopted, following a motion by Mrs López de Ocariz, which talked about making a comprehensive plan for improving the state of surface water bodies in the Basque Country, which was due to be presented in one year, in October 2018 – we are in December 2019 and it has not been done, the Government has not done the duties on this issue – and in which we talked about inventorying – let us say – all the needs that existed on these issues. We were talking about doing an economic study for the actions, teams, measures..., we were talking about a timetable for the implementation of the measures proposed. All this has not been done, it has not been done, and at the last hour, as the student studying at the last moment to pass an exam, we get this amendment of law stealing from us the parliamentary debate, stealing the appearances that might come from those people, users, assemblies, managers, who are involved. The greatest question, therefore, is the model of government, because we have the whole intention of talking about it, but as Luke de Ocariaz proposes, "remitir al Parlamento la proplamenta de moducion" here in the legislature. There are many doubts, many worries, and I think you haven't answered them the way they ought, and that's why you've come to this procedure. For a long time, for a long time – and I think it goes that way, the director of URA has made it clear on numerous occasions – you, you are betting on a water management model based on centralized management and large infrastructures. And this operation, which is disguised as an environmental tax, goes, above all, in this direction. It goes, above all, in this direction. And he doesn't have a pass. It seems to us that the discussion about the water's price is independent, and that we are eager to give it. And therefore it is reasonable, that the proposition which Mrs. lópez de Ocariz has made, "Let the proposition of change of law be made in the parliament." Let's hear more voices, judge the change of the law with all its guarantees, with serious examinations...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u62	Please finish. May the Gauls be at hand. And I must truly say that I am astonished to join with this model of government in the day of EAJ, PSE, and Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u63	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, lords and ladies of the department, good morning. Well, legal understanding, Mrs. Rojo did it and she did pretty well. I won't repeat it. I'll go and answer the things that are said to be answered, won't I? Here we go. Mrs. López de Ocariz. Let's see, will this canon itself, on its own, individually fix the problem of water losses in the supply networks that the director of URA quantified by 25%? Well, he just didn't. Now, are you going to make a more rational use of the catchments of rivers and springs? Obviously, yes, no doubt. Domestic captures have enjoyed a de facto de facto moratorium for 10 years, when the law and decree that developed it were passed. Because, anyway, you say, "Cash, more collection." Well, more collection yes, but it's not cashing, it's collecting, it's law enforcement; and, in fact, reality can always be seen from two different sides, because, in fact, what the rate does is to drop to 50%. In other words, the rate drops to 50%, it drops to half; therefore, it can be seen in one way or another. And the truth is that those of us who belong to rural areas, like you and me, as well, we see – and you will also agree with me – that there is the bad vice of leaving the tap open, because what is free is not taken care of in the same way; therefore, it is a canon that has to do with this, that has to do with taking care with those 5 million extra collection the state of the rivers and going also raising awareness in small and medium-sized captures so that people get to have a greater environmental awareness. You, and also Mr Otero, are talking about procedural matters. Mrs López de Ocariz has been a little stronger than you, she has spoken of dictatorship; well, look, the truth is that it is sometimes easy to beat you, because of every sin you have ten... Then, the Rajoy government used the same procedure in 23 legislative amendments, and in Congress it is true that this type of movement is made, that is, to modify with another law. In Rajoy's case, he did it 23 times. And it is true that in the case of Congress it is sometimes done in the spirit of causing a certain dysfunction in the legislative work of Congress, because sometimes it is a matter of avoiding the possible veto of the Senate, sometimes it is a matter of avoiding debates that could be hairy, but in this case – she has explained it well, technically, Mrs. Red – the way the law is applied, not the very essence of the law, not the spirit, not the guiding principles. It is a tax amendment that has a perfect place in a provision via Budgets, and therefore it is something that can be done and it is something that has been done and it is something that this House basically, well, agrees with, because in the substance of the amendment, the only one that has shown some kind of reticence on the substance is its group. Talk after bonuses, progressive application; well, this is going to be a line on the water bill, a line that will charge the consortium, i.e., you confuse the plans a little bit, right? If we want to make bonuses to users because they cannot pay the bill, well, we will have to make other kind of policies, but certainly not through this modification. And I thank you for changing the focus of one of your criticisms, which was that before I said that users are going to suffer 233% of the rise in their water bill. I am grateful to you that today you have spun a little thinner and said that this increase is in the increase of the collection, of a collection practically scarce because only the industry pays those 2 million euros. True, EUR 5 million over EUR 2 million is an important percentage, but we are talking about the question of domestic takeovers paying; today they do not pay anything. Well, Mr. Otero, on the side of the procedure, has explained that they are authentic, and so on. Then you remarked that the rates must be adjusted, because a few small water-tubers have left uninitiated in their investments. Well, in this case, Podemos is a little out of this line, in the correction which he has introduced, he discusss the measures we will protect to save the water and to increase it. Here they all agree, and are made, so that the "continus" will be added to this insinitive. But in the second he says: "Let the government help you in the supplies and sanitation improvements of sanitation." Today he helps to sanitation, not so much in supplies. Well, the government thought it was right, and it's all right with us, so we'll vote for it. not to Pedemene, but to Poseidon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u65	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing on the turn of the answers, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to recall that we are talking about the title eight of the Water Act, which in its article 41, which has not been amended, which are the computer principles, says: "The cost of water will be directly related to the quantities of water used and the degradation of the medium produced by its use, and will be progressive depending on the amount consumed". That's what the guiding principle says. It hasn't changed. Amend the following article, the next and the next. Not this one. The guiding principle says one thing and the articles deriving from those guiding principles say the opposite. Hey, you guys. I loved it: the rurals left the tap open. I had not realized, but it must be because of our rural character, that which you prefer in the amendment of the Tourism Law which you have brought to this House, not in a Budget Law, to amend two articles. You have not brought it into the Budgets Act, no; you have made a proposal for a law and you are bringing it to this House. Do the same with this. Why not with this? Why don't you want to be just as transparent? Why don't you want to give us the same chance as in that case? We can do it in two months, in three. Enough time until January 2021, you say you will apply this. Enough time. It's not delaying anything. It's lighting and stenographers. But no, you don't have the light or the stenographers. Just as the Transparency Act stops, they stop this, because here they don't want to focus on transparency. That's why it's done this way. There's no other argument. Mr. Becerra, you were talking to me about green taxation. Elkarrekin We can in that transformation, I think it's already more tax than green. The green is to get the plot that cool you're already looking for emulating your boss, isn't it? I mean. The green leaves it for that, for the plot, meters to water. They're gonna have to pay, huh? It's expensive, so... [[Barres]] Socio-economic study we ask, not just economic study. Socio-economic study, because it is not the same as another core, because the captures are not all at the same distance, because there are many exceptions to attend and because, in fact, the reality of Euskadi is very different in some areas and in others. And that's why a socio-economic study is needed, not the account of the grandmother who has done the counseling: "I was at 0.6, I put it at 0.3; but, as I'm going to get a lot, I modify the tax base, the uptake is greater, put it at 7." That's the account that the counselor told us, and that's the one that's prevailed over him. There's no other argument. He never makes another argument. An environmental argument has never been put on the table. Never. Now, you have become a plasticine, your principles have gone to the trash, you have taken out the others. They've changed their backpacks. Okay, so, yourselves, but don't try to convince me that this thing you put here is not a pilgrim. Because it says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government that from the date of application of the new canon of water contemplate the possibility..." – Hey, what barbarity! How prudent, isn't it?– "...the possibility of including the reduction of drinking water losses." "Contemplate the possibility of including." Do you agree that there are losses? Of course, more lost, more canon; you'll get well, more income. You're going to say, "No, look, then, no, we're going to spend here or there." You're going to have income. You've come here to the box, you're in the box and you can't change anymore. It's in the box. And, of course, it says, "No, this is not going to be paid by the consumer, it's going to be paid by the managing bodies." And what do the managing entities have, a money making machine or coins? The managing bodies, as Mr Arruabarrena said, put in the receipt to the consumer another line, which is going to be the canon that. So, listen, what are you talking about? The truth is that it's a pity, it's a pity that what you seemed to have brought in positive here has now been loaded and thrown into the trash. In the end, as I told you the other day, the Pronto and the Magic Bayette have left them and they have folded into that which you denounced, to that which you came to cleanse; and, no, you have gotten into the same mud in which you said that we are the rest. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u67	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u68	Vamos a ver. Firstly, Mr Otero, our group does not share any model of governance with the Government. And what I don't know is what yours is, because you haven't amended, you don't have any governance models here, I get it, I get it. Maybe the only one they share is the one with the PP. That's why they're going to support you directly. We do not share the same model of governance, and that is precisely why we have made an amendment where we say that something that is not – which is not, Mrs López de Ocariz – is the responsibility of the Basque Government, which is the management of supply networks, contemplates the possibility of supporting it, just as it supports other investments. But it is not the responsibility of the Basque Government. They've told you that over and over again. And I don't like it that way, but it is. Supply networks are not part of the Basque Government. That is why we cannot even force the Basque Government to support these investments in a GNP. But we have said – because we have already had this debate – that it should be with objective and transparent criteria, precisely so that what is happening does not happen, that is that the big consortia take the conventions and the small ones run out of anything. And that is the governance model that we do share with EH Bildu and that we have already said on more than one occasion, and that debate we have already had. Now, you, Mrs López de Ocariz, are asking for socio-economic studies on this problem of taxation that is generated by these Budgets. Can you tell me in the 2018 Budgets, that you have agreed through a tax reform in the three parliaments, what socio-economic studies have you supported to make that tax rebate to businesses? Can you introduce me? Well, those are our principles and those were the ones we had in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u69	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u70	Thank you, President. Mr. Otero: What if we're aware of the mess we're going to ride with this? It's just that we don't intend to mess this up. I think we've already explained to him why it's done and how it's done. So I have to recognise Mrs López de Ocariz's absolute consistency in this initiative which she has presented, because the People's Party has tabled an amendment to these budgets to abolish this provision because the People's Party does not agree with what we are discussing today. But EH Bildu, what have you done? Have you tabled the same amendment that the People's Party has tabled? Did they agree or did they disagree? Because, of course, you say we're gonna do it through the back door, like that bad student who leaves everything for the last day. And you, how do you expect things to be done? By infused science? Because at least there are those who propose to eliminate this through an amendment, but EH Bildu, of course, has not raised this at any time, because you, in your speech, have defended one thing and the opposite. He defended the canon, but he's going to vote no. He defended the importance of speeding up the procedure, but said no. You have defended one thing and the opposite, and in everything you cannot be. And if not, I invite you to review the debate at that time when this canon was approved, because parties that are now part of that stage, what they voted for and where they were. Because now it seems that you have arrived here and that this comes again in 2019, almost 2020. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, And then, another thing. Is this proposal that the government is bringing, is it read-only? Without the possibility of amendments? Without the impossibility of debate? Or is there a likelihood of debate? Because this is done through a law. The Budget Act is as much a law as any other law. So you could have proposed an amendment, discussed it, convinced, voted and won, but you have done nothing or the opposite. Therefore, consistency I have to recognize Mrs López de Ocariz, but in this case, not you. You want everything. And then they say, "No, it's just that we've talked to managing bodies." And the others don't? Only those interlocutors you're talking to are worth it. Those with whom the government speaks, those with whom those responsible for the municipalities speak... You can do this to me and I can do this to you, Mr Otero, because this is so; it is your word against mine. And then, this is to see who the citizens believe. What cannot be is that the interlocutor with whom I speak is the valid one and it is the one who denies me the action of the Government because "No one has spoken to us". And then I say, "No, I'm sorry, it's not true." It is not true that URA and the government do not talk to the managing bodies. And then you and I discuss who believes who, or whether or not we believe each other. I have given you the example of Busturialdea because this was a very sensitive subject in this Parliament. I understand that it is one of those entities with which Euskal Herria Bildu speaks more than with others. And you know how we got to the Busturialdea issue, how complicated it was and what was the budget first that Mr Arriola found when he was elected councillor. And precisely there has been a very important effort in everything that has to do with water policies. So, I don't think it's the best example to bring here today, when we come to talk about a canon, which, as I say, you said yes, but no, well, but such... But at the time of truth, when we are discussing a draft budget, the Government has a job, which is to bring it in and discuss it. And he does not leave it for the last day, because you know, as an experienced parliamentarian, that the budget project is not being worked on in October, it is being brought in October and it is being debated in December. It is a long-standing procedure in which departments work almost immediately after approval or extension of the previous one. Therefore, this is not so, and you know it perfectly, just like me. But here's an opposition. The opposition, in the face of Budgets, has to submit amendments or not. If he brings amendments, he sustains his speech through everything he presents. If you do not bring amendments, man, at last, lessons in this, then I think it is not fair. And just as I have to tell the People's Party that I do not agree with anything it has said, I have to admit that at least it has tried to use the parliamentary tool in order to modify what it does not agree with. But you can't agree with what it seems to be, but when it comes to modifying to give reason to those managing bodies that you say you've spoken to them, that's why I don't do it, because this is not coherent. Do we want to protect water as a scarce resource? Yes or no? Do we have to do what we have to do or are we just going to listen to a part of it? Because, probably, if we only listen to the part of the primary sector, the opinion is different if we talk to consumers and if we talk to the municipalities, which are those who are responsible for everything that has to do with sanitation. I therefore believe that we should remain consistent and, above all, supported by parliamentary activity, which is the responsibility of each and every one of us in this House. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u71	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u72	Eskerrik asko. To make some points, nothing more. Mrs Rojo, the last question I asked about URA's investments in Busturialdea was whether the agreement that had been signed in 2014-2015, which ended in 2020, and the investments that were already agreed with the Busturialdea Water Consortium, URA, etc., would be respected. Mr Arriola's answer was: "Because of lack of budget availability, it will not be possible to do so". Okay? "It's not going to be possible to do." So you can tell me a lot about the efforts that have been made. I'll tell you what Mr. Arriola just answered. We, what we are telling you is that we are in favour of the water cannon and we are in favour of it being collected more through the water cannon. What we are telling you is that you are going to create a phenomenal problem of territorial balance. I insist, once again. Arruabarrena jaunak esan of the orin hornidura-eta, lagunduk duela. Klaro, bathe zuek uste duzue URAk jasoko duen diruarekin ore hemen luckuko den lurralde-desorekaren arazoa konpondu dezakegula? Berriro datuak emango dizkizuet. Amvisa, adibidez, gives water to more than 250,000 people with 210 kilometers of pipes. The Busturialdea Water Consortium provides water to 45,000 people with 850 kilometres of pipes. Now, what's going on? URA is going to spend all that money... where? Who? Based on what study? Here we agreed among all – and we approved it among all, it was unanimously – that by October 2018 there would be a comprehensive plan for the improvement of water bodies, in which economic studies were to be carried out, in which the needs were to be seen. Do we have that study? No, no, Do we have a study? No, no, Was it agreed by everyone? Yeah. The limit was more than a year and two months ago and has not been introduced, so now don't tell me that when you try to put this into the Budgets Act you're not trying to steal the debate and do as students who haven't done their homework, who were agreed by everyone, and come now with these. Eta lovedzen duet. Becerra jauna, egia da, is that in the end you are on the paper of painting green something that is not. And here it is clear that here what URA is going for – and it is a long-declared intention – is to charge the small managers and go for a centralized management. The idea is to drown them economically. I think I have explained before – and I am not going to do it again – that this, what is going to create is a financial problem, an investor, to all those consortia that are not those with whom the government has spoken, that I do not know if they are those to whom, logically, these measures are not going to affect, as Amvisa, as Añarbe or as Bilbao Bizkaia, are they? Large consortia affecting a sector of the trinkoa population Well, in any case, and in the end, you say the pattern of authority. We didn't need to make some amendment. I also say to Miss Rojo: What is the problem that we have in itself of a PP, if we see the good, in accepting it? And it affects the pattern of government. PP's proposal says, "No, this can't come as an additional arrangement in a bill of budget; here is what you have to do, listen to all the feelings, listen to the Asanbadas of the Water user, listen to little managers, listen to the locals, and you're doing all this with the vote that kept you from doing. Today, today, and we are still in time, we are going to vote today, and the PP is going to vote in favour of its initiative, of course, and we are going to vote in favour. And if We can decide that this law has to go through all the procedures that we say it has to go through (i.e. by making appearances, listening to people, making economic reports, etc., etc.), you are still in time. When I talk to you about the governance model I am talking about this, that you are in time to vote in favour of this initiative that will lead to a much more democratic – let's say – channel, much more transparent and with much more light, obviously, because there are a lot of managers, among other entities, that have not been heard. And you, if you do not vote in favour of this, what you are going to do is that this change of law is passed without being heard. That's not, I understand, the governance model that we can push.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u73	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u74	Yeah, just to throw out two ideas. I'll start by order. Mrs López de Ocariz, guiding principles of the Water Act. It talks about the amount used and the water consumed. Now I ask you the question: what is the water that is consumed, the water that comes out of the tap or the water that is caught in the river? Well, the river will tell you the one that gets caught. Second idea, on procedural issues "I also answer Mr. Otero." The budget changes the tax system, which makes sense; it is not, as Rajoy did, that the Second Opportunity Act changed matters related to health insurance or the Gambling Act, or that the Volunteer Act changed the framework of health service staff, or, finally, there are 23 other similar examples. It makes sense for tax change to be made through a provision in the Budgets. Hirugarren idea beats. Yellow otter. See, the distribution of the investment is not going to fix an asymmetric application of the water canon. And the best example you have said, Busturialdea. Busturialdea's investment in sanitation is a clear example of the need to reorder the investment from above. First the water canon is applied and then, from above, the Government invests in those areas that are most in need. And, precisely, you have made it easy for me because Busturialdea is the example in Euskadi, your investments in sanitation are the example in Euskadi of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u75	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The discussion is over and we will vote for the original text of Mrs. lópez de Ocariz López de Munin. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the partisans of 27; the contrary, 36; the Abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u76	So, not allowed original text. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the contrary, 0; the abstainments, 27th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u77	So it's been agreed that the full corrections of Podemos are held together. Five point in theme list: "Punciations of the same kind as the parliamentary band of the Basque Hydrocars Balkai, the removal of the SA. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Meet Mr. Otero representing the EH team. It's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u78	Good afternoon, all of you. I know you want to end it now, but at least for me, this thing is very important. We're here today to ask for the disappearance of Hydrocarbros de Euscadi with this initiative. We think the time has come to say "Enough" to Hidrocarbios de Euskadi. And I must confess that I don't know what will happen with the initiative and the vote right now. PP has not improved, but he often says that PP is either against or against the public corporations which are the butterflies, and I think I shall make it clear that Hilobriros de Euskellidi is a flingite, so he ought to be on the side of the suppression. Sociists have not made any amendments, but I think that if they want to be consistent with the order of the Ministry of Ecological Transition in Madrid, they must agree with the disappearance of the SSA. Podemus, indeed, has advanced the amendment, and in repenting the other demands the disappearance of Hydrocarbulus de Euscadi. It would be the logical thing, as has happened this morning at the Gastine City, to agree to a medium, but it seems that the presupuestian agreements would never allow them to do so again. I can't wait to hear your opinion. And even the Jeltists have not repented, but it seems to me that if, on the one hand, they are willing to defend the climate engagements, and the strict management of public money, you ought to be in favour of the disappearance of the SHESA. I don't know whether he'll survive or not, but I think it's a matter of consideration to him who's accepted here in the whole course of the law, directly, you, Mr. President, and also the chairman of the Tapias, that makes me want to compete, don't you? For it seems to me that in this week the courts have made it clear that when cats are watching or looking at each other, the mice are apt to commit mischief. And that's what I'm asking you, Mrs. Tapia, Mr. Urkullu. not to look at the money-bag that is taking place with the Hydrocarbios de Euskadia. That's why I go straight to you. And, please, this is not the first time I've been here, and it's not acceptable what's happening. You probably won't remember, but when we first spoke to each other, it was just seven years ago. It was December 13th, 2012, and that day you became president. And I'd like to thank the people who came from Facking No, I went to you with a member of the Franking Non-A, and we went to you and gave you this: [[He's shown a release.]] Fracking wasn't the team who pulled out a report saying it was dangerous to make a frackinga in the area. You thanked us, and you said: We have more reports. Okay? Our story warned him of unacceptable environmental risks. The ones you had were from SESA, who gave promises to the El Dorderor, and by the fracing, etc., wasn't that right? This was a social struggle for years, and in the end, after all this conflict, you gave up, and Arzie Tapia herself, in the year 2015, and on the return of the law, admitted that it couldn't be done, because the environmental risks could not be consumed, that is, what we said from the beginning. This time, too, you'll save time and resources if you'll listen to us, because we don't want you to come in ten years from here to give us reason, we want you to start the end process today. And we think there are great reasons. I've classed them in four sets of reasons. The first is the highest and most historic function. It's important to know that Hidrocarbros de Basque energy is born after Euscal organization in 1983, my self-in-chiefly, in a conbulsive moment, around 80, there was a great crisis, and then there was a stake on the future supplies and then it was a bet on the gas, and an attempt to get away from the subjection of external resources. And then SHESA might have a meaning in that transition from oil to gas, which was said to take advantage of its resources or profit, and then to support the transition. I'll say today, almost 40 years later, that the SHESA hasn't even fulfilled one of the strategic goals. His moment has passed, his historic moment, and we're on another screen. That would have to be known from the Hydrocarcuros de Euskaki, but when he's got six employees, he'll fight for his existence. That's why I think you're the ones who care to say their time has come, not the Hydrocarbios de Euskaki, who won't do it. He'll make an attempt to self-justify his existence. As I said, today we are on another screen, and that screen is called: climate emergency. That alone, I think, ought to have sufficient reason to direct the public impulse, the public money, and the only means of renewing it in the energy. But, besides this, I believe that the European Union, this legislature, The same statement of the climate emergency has been admitted to be the head of the Urcullu. But, klar, that's not just accepting. Here, IPCC (the climate change panel) says that if we don't have to go through the global ethovation of 1,5 degrees, then there must be a part of the present reservations left unburned. So why are we exploiting for ten years, searching for pits we can explore? It doesn't make much sense. It doesn't make any sense, even if we say that until 2050 we have to go to look for a economy of carbon-neutrality, which is a purpose which we can't continue, we can't begin to find out if we were to be exploited for ten years. And still less, as the Administration has said, if it must be exemplary. If it is to be exemplary, what example is it, to keep the Hydrocarbulus de Euchadi and continue to explore it from the line of hydrokarburas? I think that a carbon-neutral economy, 2050 years, presupposes a "hydro zero" policy, which begins to plan today. Don't listen to me. The teams of experts, who will make a report of energy, have been talking about it the day before yesterday, and I think it's quite clear that the road is going that way. And it seems to me that, as you've tried, Hidrocarburis de Euskadira is not compatible with some green priorities. Eta hemen ohartxo bat egin behar dut, Mr. Becerra. You have tried to sell that you have subtracted money from SHESA, that you have removed money from SHESA. You, the money you've taken from SHESA has been zero euros. And what has moved his plans is zero millimeters. And then, if you want, we'll talk about this. One more thing, important: Around SHESA there's been an irresponsible waste of money around the past few years. And I can explain this many ways. I've reviewed the past 20 years, and we can say, adding, very simple, that in the past 20 years of history, Hidrocarbros de Euskata, there's more than 150 million euros in the savings of the past 20 years. It's true, he didn't spend everything, part of them... Well, well, because you did things wrong, but he didn't spend it all. But 150 million Euros have been taken. I mean, if we talk about profitable corporations, it would be a different question, but here, apart from climate discussions, there's a question of profitable ones. And it's not profitable at all. Since you're the president, in the budget, he's taken over 50 million dollars from the Hydrocarbros de Euskata. And in this legislation the balance of balance, the hydrocarbulus de Basque balance, is not 2020 exercises... , it will be closed later, but the balance in the previsions is in this legislation of the 27 million euros or the expense of money. "Esto es, Hidrocarbulus de Euscadi va a suponer en tumilura un aguero economico de 27 millos de euros para las arcs públicas vas." Well, then, it's profitable. I asked Mrs. Tapia when the affair was discussed: Why are they selling in exchanges, etc., incluso, the wells on the Errix, and everything is profitable, Hydrocarros de Euscadi? If there's any income, I asked Equivocan, why the Basque Organization of energy still has to give Hidrocarbros de Eucharady another $2,5 million? "Si esta explotando de registindo enchantos, por qué sene que seguir aero?" Y entonces la señora Tapia... , o sera, it's ugly, but I've caught you again in a little lie. You said to me: 'No, because it's a second well to do.' And I said: "One second well? "I don't know. And you said: "Yes." Well, no: a fourth well. Fourth. Viura 1 Viura 3 Viuraside track That is, they go through four wells in a supposedly conventional and supposedly profitable field, and this year still the Euskadi hydrocarbon balance will be that it needs 2.5 million euros of the EVE and it will be that in the year it will lose more than 4 million euros. But what profit is this? What are we talking about? And I want to talk about a last block, and it's a Radical Hydros de Euskakis, which I'd say he's been slobbering all over his history. Euskadi Hydrocarbons has had eight wells stakes in its entire history, and now, with the side track That is, Euskadi Hydrocarbons always tells us "The next well is going to be successful," using a stick and carrot technique to continue looking for ways to be provided with resources that never returns to the Administration in performance mode. And I think that to understand this – and I'm going to do it very briefly – it's very interesting to see what happens in Gasteiz, where it was going to be fracking, where Armentia 1 was made, where the Enara 1 and 2 wells were projected, and where the environmental impact statement was recently approved to make the Armentia 2 well. In 97, in 97 Euskadi Hydrocarbons drilled the Armentia 1. The result, as Vicuña said, the CEO of Euskadi Hydrocarbons, was a failure, the production was ridiculous (0.5 bcm), it was not profitable at all. So, in 2003 that closes. In 2004, in the heat of fracking in the United States they will be interested in the technique, and in 2005 they come with the American partners already asking for a series of permits, okay?, that they are granted in 2006. Two years later Euskadi Hydrocarbons sends requests to make 16 wells in different places, and then tells the ministry "Well, but, if you're going to do this, you need to make an environmental impact report, because this is going to have an environmental condition," and then Euskadi Hydrocarbons what it does: try, well, jump like a tramp, legal tramp, and say "No, retreat 15, I only stay with the well of Vitoria, with the well of Subilla-Gasteiz, and it's only going to be that." And then the ministry says, "Well, then, there's no need for an environmental impact statement." Okay. And then, I'm asking from one to the other all the wells, so that I don't have to do the environmental impact study and not take them to environmental impact statement. That's how he got that in 2011, when Patxi López announced that he was going to frack, there were ten wells in process, many of them approved. But not only that, but in Gasteiz they had another problem, because since the well was made Armentia 1, which was to be drilled with fracking in 2010, 11, 12, in that period the PGU, the General Plan of Gasteiz, had changed and then that area had a protection (natural value, forest value, etc.). So, the City Council of Vitoria said, "You can't do this here." So, Euskadi Hydrocarbons, what are you doing? He says, "Ah! Well, then, I move to the next plot." "I move to the plot next door," that is, but with the environmental impact studies already approved, and in the meantime try to keep fighting that, despite the fact that the urban regulations prevent making the well in that site, the well is made, and they are given permission to validate it, changing it from place. Well, all in all, in the end, the city council doesn't give you permission, obviously, then it starts all the fracking mess we've started and we've said and this ends in 2015, with the law and the government's decision that it's not going to fracking. Suddenly, after Euskadi's Hydrocarbons and its director Vicuña, the former PSOE corporation, with Bernabe Unda, Xabier Garmendia, etc., had wandered all over Euskadi saying that this was an unconventional field, that could only be exploited with an unconventional technique, that is, with fracking and stimulation, it turns out that it can be done conventionally, suddenly the reports appear, after we have been told by the active and passive that it could not be; that is, it has been working in a way that I would say chapucera, because, moreover, when they put the report for the declaration of environmental impact of the well Armentia 2, which is the one we have now in question, it turns out that they put it in the same space in which the City Council of Vitoria had already told them that by the General Plan was not allowed. So, well, the environmental impact statement already has it, there are some more details, but time is running out and I'm not going to go on, but it's clear, it's clear that Euskadi Hydrocarbons, for the twenty-five years it's been trying to drill in Gasteiz, has acted in a rather sloppy way. In short, Euskadi Hydrocarbon time is over. This search is incompatible with the declaration of climate change and the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050. It is even less compatible with the idea of exemplary administration. It's a company that's a bust for public accounts. And, in addition, it has acted quite sluggishly for many years. The weird thing is, we don't ask for an end to it. The weird thing is, he's still standing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u79	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours. becer carollo We've spoken a lot of the public corporations that have been built for hydrocarbures and exploiting the HESA. We've talked a lot, and we've often agreed to the opposition when we put the paper on the balance. We've often said it's not worth having a public society to do what he does. And we've often said it would be better to disappear so that we don't spend the money in vain. And we're still on our team, we're still on it, and the point is how to do it without causing any more problems. From the beginning our group, since it is in this Parliament, has called for the disappearance of SHESA. But this disappearance of SHESA is not a political initiative, it is not a political initiative that has occurred to the EH Bildu group. This is a request that was first made by the Gure Energia platform in November 2014. A platform on which is EH Bildu, on which is Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita and on which is also Equo Berdeak from the beginning. Therefore, when Mr Mikel Otero registers this request, in October 2018, prior to the October 2018 budget debate and until we discuss it now it has been five years. It has been five years for this issue to come to Parliament today. And at this time, at this time there have been profound changes in the energy landscape. Also in the Basque energy landscape. In 2014, as Mr Otero has already said, SHESA was actively promoting, he was the leader of fracking in Euskadi. Not only was the Saia permit in Bizkaia, were the wells in Araba and Burgos, the Enara permits 1 and 2 and many others. And just six months after the Gure Energia platform called for the disappearance of SHESA, in June 2015 the ILP against fracking was approved in this Parliament, with more than 100,000 signatures and with the abstention of the Basque Nationalist Party. But three years later, and with a ruling of the Constitutional Court by means of, in May 2018 – i.e. six months before Mr Otero presented his initiative – it was approved, it was approved in this Parliament a PNL on fracking unanimously. By unanimity. That is, from 2014 to May 2018 there has been a change, there has been a change in the way the government sees this matter. And we, our group would like that change that has occurred on fracking to occur also on conventional gas exploration. Because at this time too, in these five years, there have been profound socio-economic changes, changes in the economic profitability of gas compared to renewable energies. And here I'm going to put a graph – I feel like it doesn't look better – where you see the evolution of the costs of different energies over time. [[Shows a graph.]] Nuclear is the most expensive; then coal, and then the green line is gas. What changes have occurred? Wind power was already cheaper than gas in 2010. In 2015, when the Fracking ILP was approved, which was already cheaper than gas was solar energy. And, possibly, that also has much to do with the change in the Government's position on this issue. But there have also been profound social changes. We have young people on the streets screaming "Don't burn our planet," and that refers to fossil energies. Therefore, today the central issue – Mr Otero is going to allow me – is not so much the disappearance of SHESA as if we are able from here to the future to arrive at a decarbonisation pact, no longer for 2050, but, if possible, for 2040, which makes it irrelevant whether SHESA disappears or not. Because SHESA is a public society, and, like all public societies, it is a mere instrument of government policies. In this case it is an instrument of energy policy. It is an obsolete instrument and an instrument of an energy policy that has been wrong for many years. And the same thing as SHESA is just an instrument, so is that new society that we have created for the development of wind energy in half with Iberdrola. But they're just instruments. And, therefore, the disappearance of SHESA, like the disappearance of any public society, does not change the policy. It doesn't change politics. It's merely symbolic, it's merely symbolic. For this reason, when a year ago – so that we do not think that our amendment has budgetary inks – we amended the non-law proposal of the EH Bildu group, what we intended was, in fact, to ask for the disappearance of SHESA, but to avoid the problems that a disappearance of such a public society could have, both for the staff working there and for the assets that SHESA has today. Assets that are both investments in wells already in operation and research permits that could pass into private hands. And that is why in our amendment we said clearly that yes, that SHESA can disappear, but that its assets and staff have to move to the EVE. In short, the discussion of today, the real discussion, and the eternal discussion, is not, under the circumstances of today, whether or not the SHESA is or is not, but whether the gas is or not, and whether to search and use the gas or not. And we believe that it is time to make a treaty. But if that doesn't happen, we understand that, like a symbolic gesture, we can say yes to the disappearance of the SHESA. But how? As we say. And that's why we can't protect the other proposal, as described by EH Collect, and we'll protect ours as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u80	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing the teams that don't run, the Basque Popular Group. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. To me, this from the Euskadi Hydrocarbon Society, the name as such, sounds to me like an old man, a caspberry, an old man. It reminds me of these companies – the name itself, that concept – before the democracy that we had, more peculiar to totalitarian regimes where the Administration had to have a full impact on the economic sphere, on the traffic between companies, and they were directing how things had to be done and they were directing from political posts even private business through instruments like this. They are maintained in other countries; here, therefore, practically no longer, but in other countries they are maintained, especially in totalitarian countries of socialist, communist, cut, where they do not exercise precisely much market freedoms. That is where these kinds of companies are, which, from the political point of view, exploit very, very particular interests, and the wealth of the country is directed by a few, who are the co-sponsors of power, and not precisely by democratic methods. But, see, this is a feeling that I am given the name of the company, and, logically, we are not so frivolous in the People's Party as to set a political position according to what I can remember the name or cannot remember the name, because, of course – and as it usually happens – I can make a mistake. So, what leads us to analyze the figure and the existence of this company, of SHESA, starting from positions of what is the economy, the policy and the vision of the Administration and how the Administration should function as uneven as that of the People's Party – the People's Group, in this case – EH Bildu and Elkarrekin We can, to the same conclusion is that I, really, believe that this company should disappear, should disappear. Why? Because we understand that we have to leave traffic between companies and private companies, we have to let them run the economy. In certain sectors, in certain questions and very specific approaches and areas, it is necessary the presence of public administrations directing the economy, because, for security reasons, for environmental protection issues, for defending certain scarce resources... Well, in those cases I can understand that it is necessary the presence of public enterprises and the presence of administrations, but in the specific case, in the social object of SHESA, this of prospecting, research, extraction, transport, sale, distribution, everything, until refined, all that, I think it is something that is perfectly regulated, that the legislation is very strict, that is controlled by the Administration. There is no problem, and there are already private companies – if there are! – that are dedicated to doing that and that do it in different areas. They are usually very large companies, even multinationals, many of our own country, that do this kind of activity inside and outside the country. But what's more, the curious thing – and here's Mr. Otero, who told us about Viura's wells when he made the presentation – is that we are exploiting outside the Basque Country. What does it make sense for a Basque company, owned by the Basque Government, to engage in this commercial exploitation outside the Basque Country? I honestly don't see much sense in it. I think that more than one would raise his hand and beat a good kiss if all of a sudden here we find that to exploit the well of Armentia 2 comes a cantabrian company, I no longer want to tell if it is Castile and Lion and or if it is Andalusian, or Canary. Well, someone would say, "But what are these people doing coming here!" and "This gas is ours," and blows to the chest and this sort of thing that is usually done in those situations. But then, why do we do it? I do not see much sense in it, because, moreover, we are actually practicing a competition to those private companies that is not very loyal. Because the huge losses to which Mr Otero has referred, dear, are being covered by public money. Look, Mr Lehendakari: those companies that have their tax domicile in Euskadi, they pay their taxes, important taxes, those that they pay, very important taxes those that these companies pay, and with that money that they pay us we set up a competition, small, but we set up the competition for them, and we are covering the losses that this public company has. I really do not see any point in it from the point of view of sustainability, that I am not going to enter because I am not the expert and I think that it has been very well defined by the two people who have intervened before me; from the point of view of environmental sustainability I do not see much sense in it to continue with this kind of commercial exploitation from the public administration. From the point of view of competition, it does not make much sense to him either. And then one wonders: and why do all these companies exist? I don't know why. They were created in '83, it's been too long now; then, let's see why these types of companies exist today. Obviously, they exist because the law allows it, the law allows us to exist this kind of public enterprise. I have already told you that these companies sometimes exist, precisely, to protect either the interests of the citizen or a specific raw material, or a commercial activity or the major strategic interests of the public administration of the countries. Well, well, that's not the case. This one doesn't exist for that. So, one stops to think and says, "Oh, my God! Then why does it exist? If that's not the case, why does it exist?". Historically, why have all these public enterprises been created? Very simple, very simple. The explanation, half a minute – or a little more, the same. Since the year 83, when SHESA was created, the law of State contracts, contracts of public administrations, has evolved a barbarity, but always in the same sense: it has increasingly controlled and constraind the activity of public administration contracts, and in a single sense, eh? There have been no variations in 40 years. No, no, no, in a single way. For what? So that, really, what benefits is the interest of the Administration and the interest of the citizen, not the interest of the person who directs the Administration and not the interest of the person who is hired by the Administration. Of course, as this situation was getting complicated over the years, years and years, someone said: "Eureka, we have to change it. So what do we do? We're going to create public societies. We are going to create public companies, which from public companies is much easier to hire, it is less controlled, and it is much easier to make certain contracts than from the public administration itself we could not do thinking about who should be the beneficiaries." And then there's another formula. Mr. Otero was talking about chiringuitos. In this case, the txiringuito is with tx, because they are from here, they are ours. Txiringuitos. We're going to set up public companies to put people in. And he says, "Yeah, but, well, people can join the public administration, too." And he says, "Yes, but of course, with principles of equality, merit, ability, you have to pass the exams, you have to be prepared, you have to be better than the others and one enters." But if we're not in that situation, he says, "Well, in a public enterprise, listen, I'm going and I'm putting you in." And that's very simple to do, and we've seen it over the past 40 years a lot of times, when you go to a company of these staff selection companies and you're told, "Make me a selection of staff to hire this gentleman." And he says, "To a gentleman like this?". And he says, "No, no, no, that one." We make the selection of staff, we take it and we hire it, and there we put it in secula secolorum These were the handles used by public enterprises. And I believe that in a government of good governance and transparent governance like the one you preside over, Mr Urkullu, you should not paint anything public enterprises like this. And that is why we are in favour of the way in which SHESA should be made to disappear, so as not to allow that activity which is not good for our environmental objectives to continue, to stop losing money, that money which we already know is, well, yes. – Mr Otero spoke to us of EUR 150 million in a lot of years; of course, for the Budgets that you manage, and that will surely approve next week, therefore, it is not money, but it would be good for other issues. I'm sure you will, that you will think of lots of uses to give those amounts–, and, above all, to..., we're going to make disappear that shadow that exists in all those public companies that actually duplicate services, that do rare things, that hire people, but that they're not hired, that they're not officials, but that they do, but that they live better, but that... And then those companies hire as they hire. And this week we have felt – I think everyone – nausea, quite, for that kind of rare hirings that are done from the public administrations, and it is not the object of the day. That's why I'm not going in, that we've had enough of our stomachs to break the stomach of your lordships, just a few minutes from the Christmas appetizer. That is why we are in favour of the disappearance of this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u83	Thank you again, President, and good afternoon to you all. I will be very brief, because the initiative Mr Otero put forward today was whether or not to keep SHESA within the structure of the government, and, as no one will be surprised, the Socialist parliamentary group is going to vote for it to remain where it is. Stay where you are not for lack of consistency – and I'll explain it to you. And we are back to a debate that has been raised with the Socialist Group on many occasions with regard to energy policy, and this is called institutional loyalty. We are part of a coalition government where we do not agree on 100%, logically. We are two different political parties, with two different ideologies, but we have signed a government agreement to give stability to the country and to implement policies that can solve citizens' lives. But this parliamentarian who is now speaking to you and my parliamentary group we are part of the PSOE, and therefore the energy policy that we endorse and in which we feel 100% comfortable is the one that Teresa Rivera is defending today in the preliminary draft law that talks about climate change and energy transition, which we hope will be one of the first laws that the future government will pass. So I'm not going to hide in trying to justify the unjustifiable because I already know what you'd tell me, because I was going to make it pretty easy for you, right? So, as we already know each other, so that there is no doubt, because we are already old acquaintances of you, Mr Otero, and of some who have come to us today, like Mr Iñigo Leza, with whom I discussed for more than six years everything that had to do with the law of fracking, so we are not going to be fooled. The Basque Socialist Party is against fracking, just as we are against modifying a general urban management plan in a town hall to make possible something we do not believe in. We understand that this country's energy policy should go as a final goal towards renewable energy, but I also think that we need to be careful in this debate about spending money, because sometimes we need to talk about investment. Renewable energy costs a lot of money. If we make a clear account during the first years of investment in the Budgets, it would probably give us red numbers, but it is something to bet on, where we have to aim, because, of course, the Socialist Group is committed to an energy policy of a sustainable present and of a sustainable future. Of course, I believe that many things are being done by the Basque Government. Fracking is no longer a reality, nor is any project in anyone's sight that supports it, defends it, and sets it in motion. The issue that you brought to the debate, although you were not really talking about the initiative, is the last thing you have been talking about, which is very similar to the Viura project, is conventional gas. I share with you that it is not as profitable or does not seem to be as profitable as it seems, but it is also true that a responsible government has to try to be able to respond to a demand in a society like Basque, which has a level of dependence that exceeds 95%. That being said, the Socialist Party is very comfortable and is where it wants to be governing with the Basque Nationalist Party, because there are many more things that we put in that document that is signed in the beginning of the parliamentary term and that we are comfortable with, but for those who can read it, there is a tax paragraph that talks about what has to do with energy policy, what we agree with and what we disagree with, and that is what we advocate. But if you ask this Member of Parliament or any of the members of my group, you are Teresa Rivera, our energy policy leader. She and all the documents that the ministry has carried out and has been able to approve in the last legislature, and what is today in our government project, if it is possible that Pedro Sánchez, thanks to the responsibility of everyone, will be president as soon as possible; because it is very well all that we defend, but, if we do not support the one who can carry it out, then it serves little. And I would therefore like to make it clear that we are in a coalition government and that, indeed, SHESA is part of the structure of the government. And, of course, it will not be the Socialist Party that votes to get him out. And the last thing I'm going to say to Mr Arbulo is that 2017 and 2018 were two years in which the People's Party approved the budget of this autonomous community, and therefore it was agreed that SHESA should be part of the structure of the government. I also understand that it would be because it put in a balance what they understood was favorable to approve that budget, leaving things in the trap, as we all do when we try to agree and agree between different. But that did not happen 30 years ago, because then there was a budget extension that continues to give the approval to SHESA and that came from the budgets that you supported. Therefore, I understand that you now have everything so clear, but you have not always had it so clear. Because also here they approved "In Euskadi fracking no" and their government led us to the Constitutional to say that that law did not seem right to them, and ruled the People's Party; therefore, pacting between different is very complicated. Energy policy is more than complicated, and I refer to the facts, because we are not able to hold a clear debate. As much as we make country pacts, sustainability laws, we end up questioning everything, because this is much more complicated than it seems. Because it's not just decided in this House. Companies are out and have a key part to play in setting up projects that will make the country grow. Because energy..., it's true that the laws mark the Basque Parliament with our approval or not, but, as I say, then it doesn't seem to be all that easy, because look where we are, that we haven't been able to agree on anything about renewable energies. I say nothing, nothing real. I mean, not anything that doesn't hold the role and the rostrum, but nothing to put in place something like tangible, that we can go see. Because then it seems that some things we say, other things we negotiate and when the time comes to vote, many times other things we vote. And I think in that I don't know if anyone in this House has the portal to their house well swept away. And I'm included. I mean, everyone. I intend not to intervene in the second round. Depends, Mr. Otero, on what you tell me. Therefore, I wish you happy holidays, although I don't like Christmas at all, but for those who like it, enjoy it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u84	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, congressmans, good noon to all. As this subject is resurgent, and as we have more than once discussed this subject in this chamber, I am not going to prolong it in this matter which is the tendency of the Jelt Party. Probably, as Mr. Becerra said, what lies behind here is whether we agree that the gas should be extracted or not. And for that you don't have to come once a year or twice a year. Once because a public company has no returns – which..., Screen! – because we don't like the performance of the public company. Another year is because environmental impact assessment is simplified and should be normal. When it's normal, it's not worth... Well, well, in the end, a ten-minute speech can be summed up in one: "We don't want to extract gas"; in this case, on lavish ground. That is the end and the beginning of Mr Otero's argument, which he has disguised today – let's say – of..., corporate rigour, to say the least. Although I would like to – I believe that none of those who have intervened, except perhaps Mr Ruiz de Arbulo – really raise, if we close SHESA, as the non-law proposal presented to us by Euskal Herria Bildu says, what would happen next, what would happen next. Because here it seems that if SHESA is the one who studies, the one who investigates, the one who looks, it is environmentally bad. But the private, who are the ones who would enter exactly the next day, once they take over some badly sold assets, surely, Mr Becerra, those, seem to do it or would do it much better. I don't know what you come to these conclusions. And another such important issue or more. I don't know if here in the name of ecology what we do in the end is eco-egoism. In other words, there is the ideal world, in which tomorrow we stop using coal, oil, gas and live only and exclusively from renewable energies. But I think you know as well as I do that it's or it's not going to happen from day to day, it's going to be a long process, years. And that in that process, as we go up in the use of renewable energy – and here we have a long way to go yet, of which we are all aware – coal, oil will go down. And what's going to happen to the gas? Are you going to lower your use too? No, no, On the contrary, precisely because it is the least polluting of fossils it will be used more. And apparently, according to his theory, it turns out that the ecological footprint that gives us gas right here and put it into circulation, obviously, must be much bigger than bringing all that gas into ships, which do not exactly go with gas or with electricity or with what. A gas that once again here must be subjected to a liquefaction process using energy, spending more energy, and so on. Well, apparently, that must be much more ecological, and that would be what would happen the next day to close SHESA, amen that, as I say, Basque citizenship would lose something that is its own right now, something that we can go with, with what we can come with, that we can use or stop using. It would pass into private hands, which is what Mr Arbulo said, which is what they aspire to. To what they aspire here, because, well, perhaps it is the year that has passed, right?, but in the General Councils of Álava, not a year ago they defended some other kind of approach, that SHESA should follow because it seems logical, even it seems good that we should be the ones who have the capacity on our soil, and not the private companies, which, as I say, would have to missell the company's assets in the event that the Basque Government, constituted as the Board of Directors, made the decision to liquidate the company. I would like to talk about that day after, that ecological transition. And I am not from the PSOE, Mrs Red, but I also often agree with Teresa Rivero, also when he gives permission to the Basque Government to explore in Armentia. Also on that issue. And later we'll see; I mean this isn't black and white, things have many vertices, they have many angles, they have many... We are looking forward to seeing what comes out of that committee in which, in some way, we have delegated the design of the future. But I, once again, have to say in this rostrum that I have the feeling that some confuse energy transition – transition implies a starting point, a point of arrival and all that road that has to be traveled in time – with..., I don't know what to call it, I don't know if to equate it with... energy breakdown? Moving from one day to another from one thing to another? We are not going to get this either here or in that Germany that I usually set as an example. Therefore, I would ask for peace of mind, let's go and see what happens to that law announced to us by the possible future Government of Spain. Let's see what our experts say, and from there we will already make the decisions that have to be made, which is what we have defended all our lives from the Basque Nationalist Party: exploration, always. We do want to know what's in our basement. And from there, the decisions on exploitation will be made at every moment, and always ensuring – and more so as the company is ours – that exploitation is made with all guarantees for the environment. And always trying to make the ecological footprint as minimal as possible; what I think wouldn't happen, or it won't happen today and it won't happen tomorrow, if we keep bringing the gas on ships. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u86	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u87	I'm sorry. I don't know if there'll be a second shift, if there's no such thing as happiness and good new years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u88	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Reply's turn... [[Berber]] Collect EH...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u89	Eztabaida deberdinak daude, Yellow grajales. Depending on whether the gas is extracted or not. True, that debate exists, and about the rhythms that the transition must have. And, of course, Euskal Herria Bildu is not saying that we have to cut gas overnight, because we would create a major chaos. What we are saying is that Euskadi Hydrocarbons has not achieved in 36 years of existence any of the strategic objectives for which it was created and which remains a collage of public money. And that Euskadi Hydrocarbons, the only thing you're looking for is self-perpetuating. And that Euskadi Hydrocarbons has had plenty of time to show or show what it is dedicated to, how it does, and is not succeeding. It is not succeeding within the borders of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, it is not having it when it has gone out, and it is not succeeding when it has gone on joint venture If SHESA were closed, what would happen the next day? Well, what would happen the next day would be nothing, which would be another day, normal and common. Because what happened to the rest of the foreign companies that had come to the Basque-Cantabrian Basin is that in the same way that they had come they have gone mad. They're gone. Sean Eon Energy, R2 Energy, all those who were in the lobby lobby Time has shown that it had neither feet nor head, that it had neither feet nor head, and that the unconventional deposits that exist mostly in the Basque-Cantabrian Basin do not have the potential to continue in it. But Euskadi Hydrocarbons, as you don't have to give accounts, and as you don't have to give accounts on a private board of directors, what you do is keep asking for money year after year, year after year, year after year. I have already told you, the balance sheet in this legislature is going to be from a hole, which are the holes that make Euskadi Hydrocarbons, a hole of 27 million euros to Basque public accounts. It is normal that there are six people there who are working, that what they are going to do is continue to submit projects and continue to ask for money to be supplied to them, but it makes no sense at this time, let alone when the Administration has to be exemplary. Obviously, part of the gas is brought in by ships, and it is going to continue to bring, because, of course, with the production that has Euskadi Hydrocarbons we are not going anywhere, let alone with that which it has in its sphere of action, which should be Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. With regard to private companies, just one point, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo. Precisely, if the function of Euskadi Hydrocarbons had been to bring those private companies! It is not that these private companies were to come for pleasure or pleasure, but because that public company, precisely, made a link to the resistances that might exist for them to come. If Euskadi Hydrocarbons disappears, foreign companies, as they have disappeared in the rest of the permits, will disappear. With regard to what Mrs Red has said, what do you want me to say to you, I feel like running out and giving you a hug because it seems to me to be the most sincere thing that has happened here in the last three years. Okay, you have institutional loyalty, you're comfortable ruling, you'll know why, but you have loyalty. And then you're telling me that, well, you're going to vote what the government says you have to vote. And, well, that would be another problem, but at least I'm grateful you're not dizzying the loser. And in order to spoil the loss, Mr Becerra, your intervention, because it was not clear to me whether it was about giving me a demonstration that before I existed in the energy world there were more people – I sure as hell, I don't need any exclusive ones. You told me that Equo was in Gure Energia and that Gure Energia in 2014 was calling for the disappearance of SHESA. All right. And then why won't you vote in favour of our proposal? Ah! Because you vote for yours. And why in the morning we agreed in the City of Vitoria a transactional amendment and you did not want to agree with me any transactional amendment? Ah! Because you, I mean, like what we propose, don't you? The coalition likes to make transactions with us, but you don't want anything with us today. Things of budgetary life, Mr Becerra. Things about budget life. [[Barres]] Of course, I told him the theory of fucking cups, which is a little soez – I'm not going to repeat it – but, of course, today is not a cup, this is almost, almost a longangana. And the debate, what is the debate today? You said that today the issue is not whether SHESA disappears or not. Well, that's the debate today because we brought it in, and we brought it in in these terms. You say no, that the idea, the important thing is the zero carbon pact, etc. We brought that too. I mean, you can't tell me that I'm dedicated to things that don't matter and that those that matter leave me in the tinker, because they've also come. And of course the matter is important for Euskadi Hydrocarbons to disappear. That it takes two and a half million euros from the budget of the Basque Energy Agency one more year, one more year, when it is supposed to be exploiting a profitable deposit, which is not true!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u90	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u91	Yes, I'll finish it. And, of course, in contrast also a little bit to what Mrs Red has said, please be a little more sincere, be a little more sincere from Elkarrekin Podemos and from Equo, and tell me you have a problem with the Budgets. What's not worth, what's not worth doing is doing the green wash you guys, exactly, and sending the journalists to do this headline... [[He showed me some pages.]] That the green part of the budget agreement in Euskadi includes the gradual abandonment of gas exploration on several permits, and then they say inside that there is a significant reduction of 733,000 euros in the budget of the Euskadi Hydrocarbons company. All right! And I am going to the amendments and I find that they are putting an amendment calling for 733,000 euros to be lowered in the Euskadi Hydrocarbons budget, and then there are two, one 400,000 and one 333,000, which are the 733,000 that leave the Euskadi Hydrocarbons budget equal. And then they sell in the press that they're lowering their budget to Euskadi Hydrocarbons. Please! Don't you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u92	Thank you. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u93	I love that sincerity comes to you too for Christmas. Because not only has Mrs Red been sincere, but we finally come to what this is. You have no interest in harming the government's energy policy. You are now trying to turn Elkarrekin We can be the culprit of energy policy. Well, that, you'll have to explain. You'll have to explain it here, you've already explained it, and you'll have to explain it outside. In the first point of our amendment it says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to declare the extinction of the Euskadi Hydrocarbon Society". I'll start like we ended two weeks ago. What have you not understood of our amendment? What have you not understood of our amendment? All we do is matify it, matify it, because, if extinction is declared, what happens to the workers and what happens to the assets – which has already been said here –? The Armentia 2 well, for example, is 44 % of SHESA; 36 % is of Petrichor, subsidiary of Heyco, with headquarters in Texas and Pennsylvania; and 20 % is of Cambria, subsidiary of True Oil, with headquarters in Wyoming – not in the Great, but in the little Wyoming. So, what if SHESA leaves the Armentia 2 well, which is right now the only exploration that is underway? You say "He falls" and I say "I don't know whether he falls or not," but I'd worry he wouldn't fall. Here, the problem – I said from the beginning – is that SHESA is a mere instrument of the government's wrong energy policy. And, therefore, let us approve what we approve today, it does not cease to be symbolic, however much you review it of a transcendence that you do not have. It is symbolic that SHESA disappears, because societies, the government creates and eliminates them as it pleases. The problem is that if energy policy does not change, it gives us the same thing. Moreover, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo has already mentioned this: we prefer private companies to do so. If you're telling him! Why do you think the PP is going to vote for you? Why do you think he's going to vote for you? That's the drama. And here we have a Basque energy pact. – which, by the way, we abstained – which should be the framework within which this energy policy of decarbonisation should be agreed. It should be. We should get to it. And that's what I'm throwing at the government, too. Because Mr. Grajales, when we started this legislature, he was talking about gas until 2100. I don't think anyone's talking about 2050 anymore. And with the economic figures I've told you, right now investigating the gas is totally unwarranted. It is an unjustified cost for a resource that is not to be used because it is uneconomical to use it. But as I said, and since you have committed yourself, because you have been pulling me out of my tongue for several weeks, you should wonder why, if there is a budgetary agreement between the government and Elkarrekin We can, there is a pact, why here, with the same budgetary agreement, there cannot be a pact. Ask your group why we can no longer agree here, making, as you do, that Elkarrekin We can be – let's say – the bull that killed Manolete. I told you the previous time: the 733,000 euros reduction of SHESA are such, it is 733,000 euros reduction. You know that the budget adjustment items go up and down, but 733,000 euros are withdrawn and, in addition, the Government signs a gradual abandonment of natural gas research in some fields. The Government has signed it. Now, if you submitted this non-law proposal last year, in October 2018, I wonder why you didn't defend it last year as you did. Could it be that you were then negotiating Budgets? Maybe I do. How much did you guys get in that thing? Zero. They negotiated zero and agreed zero. And they signed zero, of course. And they did not negotiate anything at all: neither the disappearance of SHESA, nor anything else. You don't think much of what we've achieved, and I admit it, but you don't get anything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u94	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Popular. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Much is learned in these debates. The truth is that such technical issues are very interesting and one learns because there my training is lacking. Now, let them try to convince me that the underground of Euskadi arrives to La Rioja, in the end, it seems to me that that is a little exaggerated and that his hand is gone. And that's not teaching, it's trying, a little, to cheat. Of course, Christmas is coming, Mr Urkullu, and here the opposition have become tender and want to give him a gift and have decided to break the clamp. Because, you should note that with the same amendment the two groups, the same text, are asking for the same thing and there is no way to reach an agreement. Something will be, something is happening with these recent covenants and marriages, which you have managed to get a lot of opposition. I have said that I am in favour, that my group is in favour of this company disappearing. I didn't say we had to stop exploring. I have not said that we should stop distributing; that others will do so, it will be possible to do so. And I don't know why Mr. Grajales trusts the government so little that he says that if SHESA disappears, his assets will be missold. No, sir. Its assets and liabilities will be passed on to the Government, which owns the stakes. That's the normal thing. We already ate enough browns when one of these things doesn't work and we have to swallow our debts. Well, if there are assets worth money, there is no reason to sell them; they will be left by the government, and you will see what is done. I say I don't like this instrument. And what I don't like either is what's going on between Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu. I will ask you, Mr Becerra, to allow me, please, to vote for your amendment, the amendment you have made. He tells me he doesn't... Well, if you tell me no, you remind me of the hunter's joke that was going to the cave, to the bear's burrow, and on the fourth or fifth Saturday, after 20,000 peripecies, he picks up the bear from the mophlet and says, "You, majo, I don't think you're coming to hunt, huh?" [[Barres]] Well, I think it's exactly the same here, Mr. Becerra. Because you have here the same amendment as Mr Otero, listen, we ask you all to vote for points, we support you, we take your initiative from you, and you do not want it. Why? It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. I think it is these marriages and horns that have been going on lately, that you are very angry, and you are going to get Mr Urkullu to finally have the Christmas gift and to get out for the next session, to bring this issue back with more time, with more calm, and we can discuss it. I will insist: please allow us to vote on points. Because, among other things, the second part of your amendment, Mr Becerra, of course, is an old amendment. It is true that this debate started a long time ago, but you are talking about the budgets of the 18th, which never existed; the closure of the 19th, which, in short, makes no sense. The assets, under the conditions under which it is and has passed this year, then, all the new assets, where are they staying? I mean, we already know the virtuality of GNP, but, man, we're gonna make one a little bit more serious. And since yours is a little old, I ask you... let me vote for points. I can approve the first of them, and in the second, in that case, I would abstain, and then we would take this debate forward, if the interest of the debate is that the result of the GNP should come out. And if it isn't, if the interest is to stand up to each other how well they're doing in some places and how bad they're doing in others, then we'll all go and have the Christmas appetizer quietly, and that's it. And we forgot about this. I insist and reiterate the request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Basque Socialists. They don't have to talk. And Eubertarians, no matter what. So, the dye... [[Pause]] After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of the EHG as a group. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of 18; the contrary, 37; the abstaining, the 20th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u97	So, not allowed original text. After that, we're going to vote for the full line of Podemos together. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 37; the Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-20.u98	So, it's not supposed to be a full-correction of Podemos together. As we have exhausted the list of subjects, I end the gathering, and I wish you all happy Christmas. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and seventeen.
