ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u0	Good morning, everyone. Before we begin, I inform you that the eighth point has been retired. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "Joe Newebertalus Euveda, members of the group of the legislatures to the president, about the promotion of the "Esque Country 2030 Agenda" approved in April 2018." Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u1	Good morning, everyone. On September 2015, the Great Assembly of the United Nations accepted a remote agenda based on the 17 ends of the bearable development. It puts people, planets, peace, prosperity, and co-workers in the middle. The United Nations Organization has insisted that it is necessary to develop the jurisdiction of the agenda, and in this sense invited the Governments under the State to challenge it. And 'Essunk' had kept that challenge from the very first moment because it agreed with the view, and on the other hand, with the eucalypine model, it was very well made up because it was a book. After several months of work and organization, Euskdi Basque Country Age 2030 Age, the Euskitch accepted. It is an exercise that combines the action of the Basque Government with the objectives of sustainable development, defining goals, commitments and indicators. Last year, the Basque Government participated for the first time in the High-level Political Forum, organized by the United Nations in New York, together with representatives from 47 states, regions or non-state nations around the world. This is a meeting point where governments from different countries, international organizations, experts... present and discuss their views, experiences and contributions on the implementation of the SDGs. This year 2019, the Basque Government has again been invited to this forum, and, as we have learned, the lehendakari will participate in it to present the Basque model and the degree of progress in the 17 SDGs. This Parliament and Basque society must be happy to have a lehendakari that takes advantage of all the opportunities presented to bring the voice and experience of Euskadi to forums of great impact that make us known in the world. And in this context, we'd like to know after accepting Basque Country 2030 Age, after introducing, how you value the stage of the enduring development of Eukadin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u2	Thank you, Mrs. News. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u3	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Yes, four years ago, in 2015, General Asanbal of the United Nations accepted 2030th of the bearable development. We have accepted these principles and purposes. They don't tell us what we're going to do, they define a context to improve public policies, and they determine the priorities that are adapted to the reality of each country. The United Nations, and the European Committee have given a great deal of importance to foreign Governments, in order to invest the agenda; Besides, in all cases, we have a nearer and more direct knowledge of the demands and wants of society. In April 2018, we presented the Euskadi Basque Country 2030 Agenda, in fact, and we have been the first public administration of the entire state to make the commitment to the 17 sustainable development goals. Continuous assessment is part of the model of good governance. Our 2030 Agenda includes 100 goals and 93 commitments associated with the government program. We have incorporated a panel of 50 indicators related to sustainable development goals; in March we presented in this Parliament the follow-up report, which includes the 100 most relevant initiatives launched; the degree of progress is notable in reducing the poverty rate, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, generating employment opportunities, reducing the drop-out rate and advancing the equality of women and men. In July we will adopt a new report on the extent to which sustainable development goals are being met, which will also be forwarded to this House. This pioneering experience has attracted the attention of the United Nations. As you, Mrs Berriozabal, have said, in July 2018 Euskadi participated for the first time in the High-level Political Forum, the conference organized by the United Nations in New York for the monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the 2030 Agenda. Euskadi has been reconvened, and next July I will have the opportunity to present to the United Nations the Basque model of sustainable human development, highlighting our commitment and contribution to four global challenges: equality of women and men, commitment to the environment and the fight against climate change, smart growth and employment opportunities for youth, and social cohesion and attention to the most needy. Moving forward on sustainable development goals means moving forward in a better Euskadi and also in a more egalitarian and supportive world. It is an opportunity to participate in the High-level Police Forum of the United Nations, an excellent chance to reveal the reality of the Basque Bagque Country among the nations. 21st in the latter, no country is defined by its limits; it is more defined by its public policy. We are now a nation without state, a political community of natural identity and personality; and, in a boundless world, we seek to gain our own place. Taking part in the High-level Political Forum of the United Nations is an opportunity to make known the reality of Basque Country in the world. We will present to the United Nations the reality of a nation without state, advanced, solidarity and open, which defends the principles of subsidiarity and multilevel governance, which aspires to gain its own space in a global world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the Parliament for the United States at Pello Urizar Square, the president's need for the new political State." Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u5	Thank you, ma'am. I must admit that I leave the practice of the legislature with a salt sensation, because I cannot see the law of the new political state as a member of the legislature. After almost two laws, it makes me some kind of frustration point. However, perhaps because I am pathologically optimistic, I believe that the law mentioned will be accepted sooner than later. And I think it is necessary that this people should have a resolution, because it is necessary for them to be here, because it is necessary by our laws and rules to oppose all the affairs of it, and because, without doubt, we need perfect legislative power, because we see that the economy, the sphere of labour, or that of pensions, does not answer to its condition. The only guarantee that this is to be a proper republic, but this is not what is proposed in political states; it is a political concert, a code of the new state, and in what we attach so much importance to the economic concert, we believe that we ought to give it to the political concert too. The same relation is the relation which the state seeks, the respect founded on respect, on which the right of deciding the Basque people is to decide, the same relation, both between the Basque Country and the Juridic Provinces, and the Spanish State. I'm optimistic, Mr. President, because I think you think so too, because that's what you're saying in public. You see in the national system and the right of determining the new state, and I know that you are indispensable to its foreign policy and its decisions as much as possible. And we've got an example of today, we've learned today that the Supreme Court of Spain has decided to cancel the dinner system on account of the reorganization of Spain. There's no need to say it. I understand, however, that the statements you made were in the presentation of the government program 2013. It was another period, now you're in a coalition, and in that sense conditions will be different, for example. And I understand, too, that when I've been forced to see myself here, when we're in front of cameras and microphones, we defend political positions more firmly, and sometimes give us a point of drama. But I think that the new political state is not the way it is. I don't think we can risk it because it can fix a new political frame for the next decades, because we have to fix it, and in that sense we can't risk doing it short-handedly, and I prefer it to the discretion-based agreements. And I must accept it at this point, and praise the will expressed by the delegation of EAJ in the work of the foundations, for we had the capacity for agreements, and had the capacity to extract all the potentiality of these principles. I think we all know here what a recipe is to be made to agreements; for amongst other things, it is our turn to apply it to this recipe more than once when we seek to apply it. And for me, that's all. I wish you all a great deal of luck, especially as you are political representatives, but also personal representatives. You drink art. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Urizar, and I expect the best luck in your life. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, I don't think it's pathological or anthropological, even being optimistic. I think it's all right to be optimistic based on realism. Anyway, we need a lot of self-portraits, and I'd say that in self-organizing, we need to get stronger and better today, to keep on following the course that we've made for the last 40 years, to build society and nation, to continue working on the road. Twenty-four years ago, in 1995, the first report on any subsequent transfers was published and accepted by this congressman. 15 years ago, in 2004, we accepted the new political state of the legislature, but the gates of Congress were closed, and its tramitation had not been given any path. Four years ago, in 2015, a review of the negative consequences of the Destruction of Guernica took place in the EukMOD and introduced itself in this parliament. To get the confessional autogobert we have, and to renew it, has always been the object of all Basque institutions, you know that course yourself. And I agree that discretion is necessary, and that we can avoid planning on failure. We've answered all the demands we received from the parliament like mad. Thus, in September 2017, we accepted the report on any subsequent transfers, and sent it to this parliamentary law. We will therefore defend self-government recognized as an irrevocable legacy. We will work with the objective of extending the agreements to achieve a new status, adapted to the current context, in the State and in Europe, which responds to the needs and challenges of Basque society in the new global scenario. This is a step-by-step town. We have the opportunity to reach a comprehensive agreement that respects our uniqueness, recognizes the national reality of Euskadi and enables an effective bilateral relationship, with guarantees, within the framework of a plurinational State: the political concert. In this regard, we acknowledge the work of the Committee of Experts and the progress made. The size and relevance of their objective I believe they deserve the time they have taken to try to forge the broadest possible consensus. And, in relation to the need for discretion and to try to avoid what may be proposals that could lead us to a failure, in this sense, and in this last plenary session of this session, I share an idea of the lehendakari Agirre, which said: "Towards freedom we go, but we must go in the midst of fraternity, of the union of thought and heart, without hesitation, although the revolution roars at our side, sometimes in charge of the monarchical rights, others in charge of the extreme lefts". This is what Lehendakari Agirre said. Our model to advance is to interview, negotiation, agreement, and confirmation. This example is a way of understanding politics, and a way of understanding a people. I finish my speech by wishing you, Mr Urizar, the best in the new stage that begins. I appreciate your contribution and your decision to maintain political commitment to this country now from a new position. Thank you, and I wish you the best in your new career.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, members of the Podemos team together, with the president about the political and economic situation of the Basques." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u9	Good morning, President. It's coming, here's summer, and with it, the time to think about summer work. What duties does the Lehendakari take for the summer to prepare for the next session at which issues of great importance to Euskadi will be addressed?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u10	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martínnez, you know your duty as a Red Beetle: This is to obey the command program. All year long, that's our commitment, even in summer. In addition to the legal meeting, it's about to be a show of Eukong, and that's what you have to do all year long, so that's what you have to do about summer or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u13	I didn't expect it any less, Mr. President. It is clear that we all know the work and the important disputes are coming in for the next few months. And, too, in these weeks, we've been talking about budgets too. We said this clearly on Wednesday after the meeting we had with Councilman Azpiazu: we are not going to rule on budgets in this case, for example, until we see whether the measures the Government proposes address the gaps, imbalances and challenges defined in its guidelines; whether they are simple aspirins to relieve symptoms, or whether it is a treatment that goes to the root of the problem and that aims to transform this model that has generated inequality and increases the ecological crisis in a systematic way. Here's the key, there's the key, Mr. Urkullu. And that's where we think there are differences between our project and your project. We always seek to take one more step, and not only to take eternal steps, like the ones that take place in the past years, but are only palial treatments. For example, in the face of the bloodthirsty of macho violence, we propose measures to remove the machoism of society, not just trinkets or tourniquets to alleviate its consequences. In the face of the climate emergency, we can give great headlines, or be brave and propose measures that change our economy to adapt to the great challenge of the 21st century. So it's about working for our home work, and finding proposals to find means to modify our economic model, our social model and our ecological model, that is to find ways to treat of symptoms that produce differences in our societies. That is, in the face of the symptoms that our society is experiencing of inequality, of a wage gap, of territorial imbalances, of pollution, of precariousness..., our bet is transformative, not conservative or palliative, and looking for methods to solve it are the duties that we carry out. Only this courageous and bold attitude is responsible to the rest of society in 2020. In the current circumstances of climate emergency, of possible economic slowdown, migration crisis, technological disruptions and social and gender inequality, continuing to bet on the same model but with tirites, of course, would be a great irresponsibility, and ensuring that that is enough would not tell the truth to people. So, lehendakari, I'm telling you, by the time we get back in the summer, we'll examine your budgets under the transformative magnifying glass. How brave are they going to be to introduce the transformations that Euskadi needs in the 21st century? Are they going to bring aspirin or are they going to bring shock treatments? This is my task for your government this summer: to learn to be brave in the face of a worrying diagnosis. I want to wish Mr. Urizar the best luck for the next few years and in your professional and personal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, this from learning to be brave by assuming the responsibility of a minority government in two legislatures has its own. Inside that program, inside our program, inside the fun program, Mr Martinnez, there are certain priorities that we have a few years to look at. You know the first one, and it's to prepare a strong budget project so you can accept it from the way you agree. At the same time, I shall insist on the scope program for employment and economic recovery. Grows in progress You say Interoperability, growth is fostering, and our priority is to encourage new jobs options. This business deserves all our help and all our push, even in summer, not only as a summer's household, but as a summer's work. He asks me or refers to issues of great importance to Euskadi that the Basque Government has to face at the next session, when you know them well, because they are all on your table, Mr Martínez. Regardless of when Parliament's sessions begin and end, the government has a strategy, government program and management plan, which we have absolutely transparency in. Moreover, aware of the minority situation, we set out the objectives with the will to reach agreements and encourage collaboration. The budget guidelines are the most recent example. We have presented them to you this very week with a determined economic framework and highlighting fundamental objectives for the coming months: to fight the wage gap – which you mentioned – in order to continue to advance in the equality of women and men; to improve public services, to remain the community that most social coverage offers to citizens. Yesterday, he started – with his vote against – the reform of income guarantee income, which combines two objectives: to guarantee the quality of life of thousands of families in difficulty and to improve the fight against possible fraud. Another issue: the funds to support companies to contribute our grain of sand to improve competitiveness, to take advantage of the opportunities of energy-ecological transformation, to boost innovation or smart specialization and to generate more quality employment. These are fundamental challenges for the country, in which we can move further if its group wants to contribute its grain of sand without chimeras. My bet is realizable utopia: we can dream if we stay awake, Mr Martínez. We still have to close June and all July ahead. I hope after August...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u17	...let us all come with the work done and we can continue to make progress in improving the quality of life and well-being of people. This is the daily will of the Government. The budget tool was crucial, and the door to the Government's contribution was open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Please be quiet. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is that Gloria Sánchez, a member of the Basque Society, a member of the United States, made to the Chief of Work and Justice, is to anticipate the autonomous organisms in Osalan, and program the campaigns for health." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u19	Yes, thank you, President. Madam Counsellor, this week the Department of Labour and Justice, and more specifically the autonomous Osalan agency, has been informed by two facts, as could not be less, related to safety and health at work and the prevention of occupational risks. Between 24 and 25 – Monday and Tuesday of this week – the 11th Congress on the Prevention of Occupational Risks in Ibero-America PREVENTION 2019 was held in Bilbao. This congress is organized annually by the Ibero-American Organization of Social Security (OISS). This year, the Basque Government, the Department of Labour and Justice and the Basque Institute for Occupational Safety and Health Osalan have been the host. I congratulate you because it has been an event of broad participation of Ibero-American countries, representatives of 14 states with several delegations headed by ministers or other senior institutional officials. To make it possible for this congress to be held in Euskadi seems to me to be a recognition of the work that your department and Osalan are doing for occupational safety and health. To ensure that an act of such magnitude as this is celebrated in our land is a sign of our prestige in the world order in this matter. Work has been done both in plenary sessions and in specialized groups, which have developed hot topics of great importance in order to advance the improvement of working conditions. Their alignment with sustainable development goals, emerging risks, social dialogue in this area or the impact of digitisation and new forms of work have been some of the issues that have been discussed and informed to a very interested public. The other news does not deviate at all from this context. You have announced the third awareness campaign on the importance of safety and health at work to be developed by Osalan. Continuing his example of transparency, he has provided the society with data on sinestrality, seeking that the data serve, on the one hand, to raise the awareness of society as a whole about this sinestrality problem, and, on the other, to discard the idea that accidents at work are inherent in it. Commissioner, you have presented this campaign as a means of involving society as a whole, workers and businesses in preventive activity, which will lead to overcoming unwanted situations. This is the third campaign you are undertaking; three years of the legislature, three awareness-raising campaigns, along with daily monitoring and research work. On other occasions, we have congratulated them on coinciding the launch of the campaign with 28 April, the World Day for Safety and Health at Work, at the initiative of ILO. For obvious reasons, as was the coincidence with the election campaign and the holding of the elections, they have chosen to delay this presentation and make it coincide with the event mentioned, which we also think is a good thing. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, I would like to ask you about the means by which you are going to count on Osalan for the development of the announced campaign. Thank you very much. And I would also like to take the floor, if the President leaves me, because today she is also the last full of our colleague Rafi Romero, who leaves us to go to the Gipuzkoa Foreign Office. I want to say goodbye here today, and on behalf of my group, to her. It has been a pleasure having her in this legislature with us, and, of course, we wish you all the best in your new path.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u20	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Chief San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mrs Sánchez, indeed, the important work that Osalan does every day, we usually reinforce with specific campaigns to try to reach as many people as possible. The active involvement of social actors in advancing occupational risk prevention and occupational safety and health is essential. The work of prevention delegates is essential for workplaces to respect risk prevention standards. On the other hand, it is essential that employers be proactive and incorporate prevention into the normal management of their businesses. But in the Department of Labour and Justice and in Osalan we are committed to the culture of prevention involving society as a whole. That's why we choose this type of periodic campaigns to transfer to the citizenry an essential concept for us, as it is that quality work is a safe job. If in the first campaign we seek to contribute to the normalization and natural incorporation of safe and healthy behaviours at work, and in the second campaign we intend that employers consider investment in occupational risk prevention as an element to improve efficiency and productivity, in this third campaign we will focus on developing the essential concept that I listed before. It is necessary to include safety and health at work as an essential requirement in order to be able to consider work as a quality job, as a decent job. There is no decent work, there is no quality of employment if this job is not safe. Fair remuneration can be provided; desired professional development can be provided; reconciliation, equality and social integration can be promoted. But if we do not ensure the safety and health of the working people, it will not be a worthy job in a full sense. This message is fully aligned with ILO's theory and practice, which this year celebrates its centenary and is committed to promoting safe, healthy and dignified work, and is working to incorporate occupational safety and health into fundamental labour rights. In this context, the objectives of the campaign we have launched insist on these ideas. We intend to consolidate the commitment of people, entrepreneurs and workers, to safety and health at work; to raise awareness of their need within any enterprise and profession; to highlight safety and health at work among the indicators and essential values to be able to consider a job as worthy; to raise the message from an inclusive perspective, involving all social actors; and to strengthen the message that safety and health at work is a relevant issue for society as a whole. Consistent with these reasons and objectives, we have chosen the following slogan for the campaign: "Safety and health are the basis of decent work. "Surely one is a bear in the middle of the night." As you can see in the poster that I show you, the central image chosen for the campaign is an iceberg that stands out in part from the surface of the sea, an image with which it is intended to convey that occupational safety and health are at the basis of a decent job and, although not seen, are essential for all other requirements of a decent job to be implemented. The dissemination of this image, through various media and media, is reinforced by the broadcasting of radio wedges and the insertion of a spot on social networks. I hope that this campaign will be a success, and for our part we will continue to work every day to improve occupational safety and health in Euskadi and to imbue the entire society with the culture of occupational risk prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u22	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team, a report on the restoration of the European Committee." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to you all. People come here saying good-bye like they're on vacation, 'cause we're in June. The session is over, but here on vacation nothing. I imagine you, the members of the government, at least, are not going on vacation. I will tell you that we are not going on vacation either, even if the session is over, among other things because we have almost everything to do. And the government doesn't go on vacation. If that, we authorize you a few days in August, but we're not on vacation yet, because there are things to fix and things that don't work as we all would like. And I am asking you today for news that is not positive for the Basque country and that leaves us in a bad place, and that we have recently known, which is the report on regional innovation that the European Commission has presented. In the Government PowerPoint you always look very well, and the truth is that you have a splendid propaganda machine, but when you examine us from the outside, then sometimes we don't get the results we want. It happened to us in education; it happens to us now in innovation, which we have lost. Now we are, from 238 regions, at 132, in half. Not bad; I mean there are 131 better than us, and then there are others who are worse than us, of course. The problem is that we have dropped 22 steps from the position we had in 2017, and that our rating has moved from strong to moderate regions, and that the indicators speak well about the effort made by companies and private investment, and not so well about the government's effort in this area. And I ask him: what happened? Is it a pulse loss? Is there a lack of tension? The budgets you have for business aid are not being implemented. They can have up to EUR 150 million to support R & D business programmes, but last year we saw implementation data for the third part: just EUR 50 million. No ideas, no tension. What's going to happen and what are you going to do to get the positions we're losing back?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u24	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, I have already commented before that, apart from the sessions in Parliament, the government works all year round. Man, I'm grateful that some days in August will allow us to take the time to relax, but that they will also continue to be productive in raising new issues. In any case, by focusing on what is the issue you are asking me about, we value the report as a new stimulus to further drive innovation, and the report serves to strengthen the improvement decisions we have been taking and to reaffirm the objective of making Euskadi a high-innovation European region. I highlight four government conclusions after analysing the report and I intend to focus on what the report itself is: first, the Basque bet on innovation is undeniable. This report places Euskadi as the most innovative state region, ahead of communities such as Madrid and Catalonia. This is reflected in the report itself. Secondly, it is true that in comparative terms we have lost positions vis-à-vis other European regions; we have made progress, but others have made more rapid progress. Thirdly, and in this sense, our relative position is affected by the application of a country correction factor: all the regions of the Spanish State, all without exception, are penalised with a downward correction of 0.84. Without this corrective factor, we would remain a high-innovation European region. Fourth and most important, this report uses 17 variables. Euskadi is very well located in terms of research and development, university training, high-skilled personnel, invoicing of new products and high- and medium-tech exports. Our weakness is concentrated on the variables of two areas: innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the highlight. When we talk about Euskadi, we don't talk about what the Government's effort is, but we talk about the joint effort. Innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises, recognised at the Innobasque Assembly itself; and public investment in R & D, because, in this case, Europe does not consider government contributions to technology centres to be public investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, as I have four children of school age, I have heard this many times: "other classmen got worse than me", "suspended everyone", "we've all dropped the mark", "the exam was very difficult". Of course, then it's everyone else's fault. The fault is Spain; how it will be the fault of the Basque Country; it is Spain. Well, I know we were better than the rest of the Spanish regions; it's our obligation. It's the position we were in, and when we got worse, that has to make us reflect. And you say that you take it as an acicate, and then I've looked into the dictionary what it means to acicate, and acicate means "spoil of a single point of iron"; that is, you're spilt, pinched, bitten, pacified. And that is what I also want for the new session: now, in this time we will take advantage to work more than ever under the heat wave, that you take it seriously. The reforms that are pending have been discussed here; they are important. Yesterday we allowed the opening of a reform that is decisive, which is the reform of the social protection system, of the GIR. Their spokespersons dedicated the day to making winks at the people of Bildu. Yesterday it seems we did something because we passed a couple of laws; it passed them with the People's Party. These people aren't going to pass you the processing laws. If you want laws, the acquittal is that of the People's Party. If you want laws, you have to negotiate with the People's Party. If you want budgets, so is the People's Party, because we are serious. And the recipe is tax reform; you have to fulfill the commitment to lower the IRPF. If you want to define what we are in Euskadi, this first half of September we will also see that the presentation will have to set a position. I tell you one thing with sincerity: we have many things to do; and in September there is an alternative: to resolve or dissolve, Mr. lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u28	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u29	Chief of Parliament. Mr. Alonso, you'll know if dissolution suits you. Look, don't make jokes, don't make fun, Mr Alonso, of what can be the comparison with other regions of the state, other nations without state within the state, because it is you who has given me the opportunity to make this reference in your first intervention. Mr Alonso, you have given me the opportunity to do so, and thank you, because you see that we are the most advanced region in the state. In any case, we are going to continue to improve, and this week, the Basque Science, Technology and Innovation Council has decided to push forward initiatives that will enable us to regain positions on the weaknesses I have mentioned. I have contextualized in its fair terms the results of the report. Innovation is one of the four country challenges, not the Government alone; country challenge, where we all need to come together, we all row. Collaboration and evaluation are necessary for continuous improvement. We are making decisions: increasing government R & D budgets by 6% this year; innovation programmes in small and medium-sized enterprises such as TKgune, Innobideak or Hazinnova; new programmes such as regional development agencies. And we are not content, Mr Alonso: we remain committed to innovation, and the sample will be reflected in the 2020 budgets. What's this about "allowing you"? Perhaps you allowed yourself yesterday to overcome the vetoes that you imposed yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interrelation, made by the members of Migenus Ruiz de Gauna EH Collector to the President, concerning the disturbing state of innovation and investigation and development." Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u31	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all of you. Mr. President, on the 5th of this month, at the great assembly of Innovasque, you said: "Escendation and innovation are essential to the future of Eucade, as well as to the future of competition, both for employment, for life, and for well-being." And with these words, we also agree in the EH Collectors. As for innovation, Mr. President, you said: "Stricion is the key of the future, and the Eucommodics have the tools to be established among the European countries which are precursors in the development of the Euskade. To this we must look to the countries which are precursors, and we must develop the strategy of advancing further into the European research field." Well, we looked at the European research area, and he looked back at us, and on June 17th, Regional Innovation Scoreboard. Without entering into the value of this process, we believe that symptoms appearing in it are to be considered: especially that we have ceased to exist in the midst of the newsmen, and that the distance between the surrounding districts is continually increasing. And we need to talk about failure because you yourself have placed it as a purpose to be among the countries of Europe which are precursors in Euchardi. Industries 4.0 or Global Innovation and other things, I have heard you define this purpose, and we agree with that purpose, and we speak of failure, if the end be to be the pioneer of innovation. What about defeat? In these reports, as you have mentioned, four groups of indifferent ones are examined: two primarys or inputs, human resources and finances or helps, and both results or outputs, renewing and effecting. It is true that we have human resources on one side, in view of the system of innovation. This studies education and training, and in this country we have a high-level job. People have done what belongs to him. 17th We are the region of the tertiary formation, and the 68th in constant preparation. Force, then, no doubt, to prepare the effort our people make, and the answer to the education system. As far as the research system is concerned, we're 77 in international scientific publications, and the result is a little worse in the top 10th index, but the researchers' efforts are obvious too. In investments, in friends offered by public administration to research and innovation, 130. We're at the post, and we're on the other side of innovations at 200. The chairman of the Tapia has attributed our limited public investment to the crisis, and our bad outcome to our administrative position-that is to say, our dependence on Spain. On the other hand, we have the exits. In the first dimension, the small and average corporation case. And, as you have mentioned, that's our primary weakness. There, at three o'clock, we're back from 170th. And the other results are also the most active. I mean, it's the a priori organization of the investigation, the sense of the right of the intellectual property produced in the process, the paranoia, the designs of which are marked, and we have important problems also. Then, on the one hand, we have a divised company system. Many companies have the ability to compete in the market as well as in the global world. But there aren't many small and average companies in that situation. It's a remarkable disgrace that's seen in our country. We have a strong system of human resources on one side, and in efficiency we are in trouble. Many times, that gap This valley does not generally occur in an isolated manner, but in what surroundings it places itself, i.e. the extent of the desert, and what it affects. Innovation requires the cooperation of all actors. So there is one question we have to ask ourselves: are we an innovative country, beyond the centres of knowledge and research, of companies, of everything that this report has measured for us? Is yours, Mr Urkullu, an innovative government? Our country faces increasingly complex and multidimensional problems and needs, but we do so with structures, with traditional tools. Do the country strategies we have go beyond compendiums of plans, sometimes unconnected plans? And that is even more evident when in your Government the distribution of portfolios, many times, we find here that they are almost silo visions: one part is carried by one side and another part is carried by another, and that makes it very difficult for a government approach to cross-cutting issues to be made. This administration – we also ask ourselves – when is it going to address the same challenges that companies pose? Can we be a country that asks all companies to join industry 4.0, with an administration that is sometimes said to be 0.4? When are we going to address that the public administration also absorbs intelligent data management? How to include artificial intelligence or blockchain in our processes And, in the material of public investment, I shall not agree with what Mr. Alonso has said, but we have so many jurisdictions, and Spain has so many jurisdictions, and, as the European Union has said, he does not spend his budgets on us, and this also affects us. And in order to change this state, the new political government may be an indispensable instrument, to renew everything, even our jurisdictions, and our democratic rights. You promised in 2012 that you would work in the new political state and be finished for 2016 and questioned. Well, we're not in that situation. Without that state, can we get the goals of innovation? You think so? Or how can we make all these rights to penetrate into our new political state and to renew it? You mentioned President Aguirre's words. I think President Aguirre was a pioneer in several things, and we're here 80 years later, and now it's time to be pioneers. And I'm not going to agree with Mr. Alonso, because President Aguirre, who ran with his left hand, with the Socialist Party, with ANV, and the Esquera Republican, and I think what he ought to think. We are in a changing global competitive environment, with new players appearing who change the rules of play with disruptive changes, and that is happening in sectors such as automotive, for example. And when we brought to this Parliament the creation of a paper to study the disruptive changes, the groups supporting the government did not want to support it. Most of the initiatives that we bring to this Parliament often clash with this systematic wall of the parties that support the Government, proposing texts that they claim to continue working. In the face of disruptive changes, do you propose to continue doing the same? Will that lead us to be leaders in innovation in Europe? Isn't it time to get out of relative comfort spaces and take the necessary risks and changes? It takes a global change to be a reformer of society. For instance, this is where we agreed to increase at least 5% per year in research and development. The admission wasn't with your vote, but I think we'll agree that's a good measure. It was time to renew them, and it's time to renew them. Or, for example, with OPEs. Aren't we going to consider innovating the very process of massive examinations, endless and sometimes obsolete agendas, and marathon preparations? Innovation is not synonymous with using technologies; it is a cultural change that finds its first obstacle in politics itself, especially when there are no rewards for those who take risks and there is a great cost for those who make mistakes. We must revalue innovation and decriminalise error. That is also an old claim of the Basque Network of Science and Technology, and I speak from the DIPC to the BERC, and through the university system. We have to be able to make a mistake in order to innovate. R & D means not knowing the deadlines or the results, just as we do not want to forget that we have to focus on achieving 3% of GDP investment in R & D by 2020, and we will have to innovate to achieve this. Finland has been a reference in this last report, and Finland has an experimentation unit in the Prime Minister's cabinet and citizen financing tools in the experiments. Innovation is a whole culture of the country, and its leader said, "The only failed experiment is the one from which nothing is learned." I think that's why we can learn from this. The report in Europe tells us that the current strategy is no good, that it was a failure. As an experiment, a real failure would be to learn nothing of this: What has been done well is done well, since some things have been done well, and what must be changed, but above all what is to be done. You said on the 5th of June that your government has all the tools you need. We've seen their boundaries. So, what are your plans now?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u32	Thank you, ma'am. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Mrs. problemon, you mentioned a report that goes worse than 2017, but it's a comparison. Also, we must note that in this report of Europe itself, for the last ten years, we have improved at 12%. What's going on? Well, the others have gone faster. It is true: the others have gone to 17%. So, though we're going to have to accept this rindy to improve, the rest of us have improved faster. And it wasn't really surprising for us, no. We'd been thinking about it for a long time, and we'd see that this could be the case, but we'd have to say two things: we have improved-not enough. We are, therefore, in a study that confirms that today Euskadi is more innovative than 10 years ago. That is the case: it has improved an average of 12% over the last few years, without stopping at that improvement. However, other European regions have innovated more, they have gone faster. They've reached 17%. Therefore, our relative position has worsened; it is true. We shared the concern, and therefore explained the situation of that report, which is somewhat complicated, and we wanted to explain it. But not because we were surprised what had happened, but because we have to explain a lot of the data that appears there. They are complicated studies and they are analyses that have to be done in a way that I believe is exhaustive, not only to explain the outcome, but to take the appropriate measures. That report, you said, was based on 17 measures, on four different blocks. The Lehendakari also commented, what are the main conclusions, but I want to refer to two. In the first place, the state of the crisis has, in some measure, produced an immense influence, and not only in public. I should say less to public investments, and it has exercised prodigious influence on private investments. And if we consider these evolutions, they've been in private investments. And the other is not an excuse, but one explanation, which also affects us in the state. Why? For at the present moment, the Spanish State has an indicative of Greece. If we were in Finland, like you said, we might be somewhere else. So I think we should take our measures. State, as our companies do, must take our measures. Now, considering these two reasons, on the one hand, as we say, the innovation has continued to improve, I must say, why do I mention it because it is private? And this also may be explained, because in the 17th the private man is green, and the public is red. In our case, something special happens, and that also has to be explained, and it's not an excuse. In this case, the tech centers and CICs, they're private foundation funds, they're private investments to Europe. That doesn't mean they don't have an amazing public investment. If, then, we divide this, and consider where the problems are, we may indeed say in two places. And one of them is too much of an investment in the state that 10% of the last ten years have come down. Why? Because the tools are not adequate. Money takes place, but it's more on loans than on subsidies. We know that the investigation, as you have mentioned, has in some way a terrible danger, and that it must be subconscious. But, at the same time, I am surprised, Mrs Larrion, because, on many occasions, people in your group have criticized precisely many projects that have been subsidized, that have been at risk and that have been a failure. But it's just... failure in research is learning. Many times in this rostrum – do you review the hemeroteca – many times. But I agree with what you have said: the risk of R & D must be subsidized. So that's where we're at. Then we'll come back.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u34	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u35	The moment we analyze that weakness, the private part is where we have the most difficulties. It begins to recover from the year 2016. Throughout the trajectory from 2013 to 2016, private investment is falling. From 2016 forward, it starts to climb a bit. As these 2019 results refer to what was done in 2016, we obviously hope that the following will begin to recover. But the pace of recovery of the productive tissue is not enough, and much more needs to be improved. Investment in R & D must continue. What other important elements are there? Where we are really in red and intense red is in all innovation in SMEs, in innovation in marketing models, in innovation in design; in innovation, ultimately, not technological, which is where we have our Innobideak program, which we are already attacking, and where we have launched, after last year's pilot experience, the Hazinnova program, then we were already analyzing what the situation was and we were already putting measures on the table to make that a reality. However, there is one element that can distort that measure a little bit because, if you go to the fourth block, after those poor results in SME innovation, the result that refers to SMEs that export and market innovative products and services, we are in intense green; in fact, in position 14 of all regions, then it seems that there is also a certain distortion between those results, and they will need to be further analysed. However, that is one of the elements on which we have to work. And, if there really are products and services on the market that make us a region of very high innovation because we would be in position 14, and as for patents and intellectual property registration we are quite low – we are not in red but we are in pink – it means that our companies have to help them to have all these new products and services, in addition to putting them on the market, patent them and register them. Then there are elements that need to be worked on and that need to be worked on intensively: SMEs and, of course, the ones that we, both public and private, pay more for this innovation, which is a risk innovation, the pre-market innovation. These are the two axes on which we have to work very intensively. That the state factor is going to continue to hurt us? Yeah. But I think it's an element we can't take refuge in to say we're not doing well. We are improving in innovation, but we must continue, and we must continue with a greater pulse. As you yourself said, the lehendakari has said it on many occasions, because we saw where the difficulties were, and has asked – not, I would say – on many occasions in business forums to say "we need more business investment, we need to continue to drive innovation, because we are lagging behind". And we were already looking at it, and we have to continue in that direction. I believe that the business fabric has to be aware that our programs are of help, and of course all programs, from Hazinnova, which is more innovative for SMEs, to the more – let's say – intensive in aid and subsidies, such as the Hazitek, both strategic and non-strategic, directed to the productive fabric, are being used, and are being used well. But we have to continue in that direction. The commitment – and I will forgive the correction – of the 5% increase is government commitment, and reaching 6% is government commitment. You had put 3% of your demand in 2020. That is true, but 5% is government commitment, lehendakari commitment, I will say so. So let's keep going. We do not settle for 5%; we need to intensify further. The European aid we are getting is almost at the limit. Our fabric can no longer absorb much more. If state aid becomes what it should be – subsidies – the public part I believe can substantially improve. But it's not enough. You think that the public part becomes 25%, 30% at most, of all that is invested in the state. In the State, in any country and in any region, the real effort must be made by the productive fabric. And there we have to work, in SMEs; to get to the last, to get – forgive me the expression – to the last mile, with each and every one of the SMEs, to make technological and non-technological innovation, and let us also give impetus to those other actions that are relevant; to intensify, of course, sectors that are going to be in the future and in which we believe we really have to continue. The results of a strategy, such as the Basque Industry 4.0, or a climate change strategy do not get results in the short term, but that is not why we suddenly have to hit the helm and change it absolutely. I believe that from the Basque Science, Technology and Innovation Council there is an effort to analyse where we are, how we are improving, where our weaknesses are and where we need to continue. The effort has to be that, and of course, being very aware of what the results are and what our weaknesses are, because that marks the strategic line to which we have to go in the future. I insist, government commitment: as early as 2020 – the lehendakari has said – increase the budget lines dedicated to innovation and continue our efforts in the dedication to these SMEs, which we have not yet managed to reach. We cannot have a society and an economy with two-speed industries, and we are aware of that; there are our weaknesses and there we have to attack them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u37	Yes, thank you. Yes, the error was mine: I was talking about 3rd, 5 percent like that. But there has been a reason for asking, for an interpologising to the President, and not for the chairman of the Tapias: If I wanted to concentrate it only in her department, I would do it to her, and I think here, as we see at least, it is a question of nations, not only of more difficulties, but of more extremes. For if not, why did not the chief physician answer for a moment also? It belongs also to him in the right way, and, moreover, the part to him, well, it is nothing personal, not because the answer of education is of another kind and a better choice. But also, because we understand that there is a question that is that, as a culture as a country. Therefore, the question was addressed directly to the lehendakari, because we understand that any other vision that is of silo, that we try to compartmentalize, that the problem is only in an environment, is not an adequate answer. That too, and that was also the departure of why the question. We have problems with R & D, and even knowing and sharing, as Mrs Tapia has said, how investments are calculated and then appear as private – that's why it gives us such a good result in private – not being real with what companies are investing, we still have the same problem. Because, when we do the calculation together and when we continue to measure – and that is why we mentioned it – with the aim of reaching 3% in 2020, the last figure was 82, 85; it had gone back a little below the European average, far away from the regions of the head, and I speak as a region; I don't speak of the state. With this, the sum remains negative, knowing that it was so. With this, it puts us in a favorable position in one, negative in another, and the problem remains of substance. Indeed, we have several serious problems, but even if we go to a positive value, which is lifelong learning, where we do not have a bad result, it also happens to us that it mainly occurs among the people who have the most previous training and, moreover, within the technological sectors; also in the companies that are medium-large. With which, we would meet again with the same problem that we have. We have a business fabric that is what it is; we have different types of companies, we have different legal forms of those companies, and those are different contributions to the country, but, of course, that also means that there are different ways to focus on them. We must therefore point out that the nature of each company also determines which elements are strong and how to reach them, and we believe that this is another issue that needs to be addressed. We are not just talking about SMEs; we are also talking about what effect this has on employment, what effect it has even on public income. SMEs, in proportion, pay more taxes, the average value – I am not going to get out – in the tax of societies, and cooperatives and labour societies also have a greater impact on the social state of our society; not to mention the special employment centres and insertion companies. Klaro, we must consider a general situation in which we are placed. That's why we said that we have a lot of competitive companies in the world that are very good, but that there are so many very bad. And then, in front of that, what are we going to plan? Because not all opportunities are within everyone's reach, not all of us have the same skills and knowledge necessary to make that transit, nor are times going to be simultaneous with the ability to achieve it or not. And I think that's the reflection that we have to do as a country, because we keep thinking: are we an innovative country? Is this going to be an innovative government? Are you going to pose? And there is a plan that is called administration too, innovation in administration. But what approach is being taken in line with what is also being done in the areas, for example, of industry 4.0? We are not at the same starting point, and yet we all have to reach the same goal. But the point is that here the changes are bursting, they are disruptive; they are not gradual changes. What we were saying was that we have managed to keep moving forward, to keep moving forward, yes, but that there are no disruptive changes, when, however, the global real change is being disruptive, with new players changing the rules of play, with new technologies changing the rules of play. Eta, gogoeta horretan, gap And that's why we used to mention the Valley of Death. We think it's the biggest problem there. That's why we have several inputs of human resources, one of the research systems, but the results are not enough. The death valley in the middle Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u38	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u39	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. At first, Mrs. Collins, all this is done in the Council. On Tuesday we had the Council about ionology and the Council of Technology, where we occupy so many departments apart from the President. If there are four of us here 2.5, forgive me, four of us sitting there, and I sit the fifth, plus the President. So if I've come out, I've come out as a representative of everyone, to talk about the reflection that's done there. Beraz, ez gives neither silos nor compartments; in this case, it is an analysis that is being done. In addition, I will say to you: we have not done the analysis of this report; it is an element that we deal with in each and every one of the councils, every six months, June and December, analyzing where we are, how we are evolving, and not only on the basis of the RIS index, which takes us out of Europe every two years, but also on the basis of the Government's own analysis of the weaknesses that we detect in order to see how we are evolving, and it is something that concerns us and concerns us, and that is why new instruments are being established. And I want to insist on them: a commitment to intensifying the funding of the Basque administration, which is, of course, up to us. There we agree that we have to increase and that we cannot stay, we do not settle for 1.88. And it is true that it is an objective of all, but it is also important, when we talk about public and private, to differentiate what each one does, because on many occasions it could be understood that the public part, since it comes out in red, turns out that it is not or that it is as a consequence that there is no bet. If there is a bet, and real, and you have to explain it very well, but we continue to bet now increasing the bet to the future; the lehendakari has said it, and I will not repeat it again. But by intensifying, moreover, the implementation of new tools, above all. Why am I talking about productive tissue? Because that's where we have the reddest part, where our weakness is. And there we have to devote ourselves to introducing new equipment through renovating programs And I will also put on the table an initiative that was launched in this legislature last year, which is the Cybersecurity Centre, the Basque Cybersecurity Centre, where it works, apart from Education, also from EJIE, also from security, with novel elements and elements, of course, that are disruptive. That's our commitment. Secondly, the Basque Science, Technology and Innovation Council also saw the need to reach out to SMEs. It is that there is our weakness, and we have to focus on weaknesses if we want to improve. I think you'll agree with me. I'm sure we can improve on everything, but where our weaknesses are is where we have the room for improvement, and there comes the Hazinnova program, where we want to get to that, to very concrete, small actions that allow us to make that qualitative leap in innovation. And a commitment to positioning as an innovative region. We also need to continue with regard to other innovative regions that allow us to make this growth faster. The playing field is Europe – I agree – and I would love to be in marine blue, which is the best color that exists on that map, but for that, we have to do a lot of things, and not just ourselves, and we have to work together, as we have always done in Basque, in public and private form. As the lehendakari said, I think this has to be an acicate, which, by the way, in addition to that famous – there is no Mr. Alonso –, in addition to that pin, is something that disposes or predisposes us to improve. Therefore, that is what has to predispose us to improve and become marine blues, in that color. But, of course, it is up to us to work for everyone, not just the Government; for each and every one of the different actors, and to believe that this is a reality in order to reach that green, because it is possible, it is possible. Resources are one of the elements. There are 17 measures; we need to improve on each and every one of them, so that the result is a reality. And let me disagree, because you know a lot about this, but the valley of death is something else. The valley of death is something else; it is what happens between which we put the subsidies to innovation, we have come to a prototype and that comes to the market. And that's where there's no subsidies; that's where we need those loans, that investment, those venture capital funds and so on. That's the valley of death. And that is precisely why there are so many government tools that can be used. What's going on? That, on many occasions, with the subsidy we have come to the prototype, and, perhaps, the productive fabric does not want to make that effort, and they have to do it. We can work together, but they have to. The valley of death is that. Or in a start-up And I think there are tools there, and, besides, we're going to put more into making that a reality. But it is not one of our weaknesses; that is not one of our weaknesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Eukene Arana Varas, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president, the almond trees of Irungo and the sandal, the women's rights and equality." Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u41	Yeah, good morning, everybody. Mr Lehendakari, what is the Basque Government's assessment of the situation of women's rights at home in relation to the performance of mayors in both localities?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Arana, our rating is well-known. Every year the achievement is done by calling out for equality. This is what you're talking about. It is essential to continue to build or build equality between women and men, even in armies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Ms. Arana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u45	Yes, thank you. Regrettably, we are once again talking about Irun and Hondarribia, because once again Basque society will have to be perplexed by a situation that is anachronistic and absolutely unjustifiable in 2019. And this continues because, in these 20 long years, the government parties, the same ones that govern both in Irun and in Hondarribia, have not given the face truly to defend, without cracks, the rights of women. The violation of the right to participation in alards is the maximum, clearer, explicit and without complex expression of discrimination against women because of the mere fact that they are women, in the public space, which is the space of all without exception. Here, Mr Urkullu, something very serious is happening. And it is that the institutions closest to citizenship, governed by the PES and the PNV, have been flagged for years by machismo and discrimination. Look, the story's gonna put them in their place. The future is feminist, and you know what? That feminists have memories. We will arrive at a time when we will look back and remember unbelievingly the paper you are making in the Irun and Hondarribia municipalities, not putting either the will or the commitment or the necessary measures to resolve this unjustifiable situation. The Basque Government sends the director of Emakunde to appear to support the egalitarian boasters. And, every year, Mrs. Landaida is incredulous. Year after year, her government sends a woman to face – it must be a girl's thing – who is also cunning for being a woman. And you know why she's cricket? Because you are supporting mayors who applaud, encourage and promote discrimination against women. And already to curl the curl, last year, the education counselor, in a personal gesture "They can say that the personal is political," he showed his support for a discriminatory cultural activity. Do you avoid pronouncing yourself because you are afraid of losing votes, perhaps, in these localities? Or do they put votes ahead of women's rights? On Saturday, next to the balcony of the Irun City Hall, that balcony to which Mayor Santano does not assume when the egalitarian boast passes, one could hear: "We are still assimilating today what we have achieved this year, in which until recently only the men had room. If we are given support and visibility, we can continue to grow. Let us encourage all girls and women not to give up and work to achieve their dreams." These words could be of any girl, adolescent, young or adult of Irun or Hondarribia, who dreams of a single public, democratic and egalitarian boast. But no, not yet. These are the words of a football player from the Royal Society, who was preaching in her village on Saturday, Irun. Mr. Santano accompanied the football players, three women, who represent so many others who have been historically discriminated against, excluded and even incriminated for wanting to participate in an activity that was exclusively reserved for men. Why was Mr. Santano participating in that act and that picture? Why doesn't that put your votes at risk? Mr Lehendakari, will the parties that support the government, that is, the PNV and the PSE, be able to end the none that they do to women's rights? As long as you are not clearly positioned, you will continue to be complicit in the discrimination that happens in the brawls. And you, Mr Urkullu, with your silence, with your absence, are enabling the discriminatory gestures of the mayors of Irun and Hondarribia. See you this Sunday in Irun, Mr. Urkullu?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Arana, I would recognize you more if you were a little more humble and also acknowledge that you had to withdraw a poster from "Our" as a political party. What's with the criticism? Since you tell me what this is about, what is this criticism of the government? Mrs. Arana, I would invite you to within what is the arch of municipal responsibility... May I, please? Yeah. Thank you. Within the exercise of municipal responsibility, I would be grateful if you could open up the fan in the localities you mentioned beyond what is the representation of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party throughout history, to also prosecute other political formations that have had their responsibilities, before even those of the Basque Nationalist Party in any of the municipalities. In any case, the support of the Basque Government for egalitarian schemes is unequivocal. This is demonstrated by the active presence of Emakunde's leadership every year. And the direction of Emakunde is not because it is a woman; it is the direction of Emakunde, which depends on the lehendakari. And not only the leadership of Emakunde, but also the General Secretariat for Human Rights and Co-existence in the dialogue forums promoted by the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation. We are committed to human rights and to ensuring full equality of women and men, and our attitude has always been proactive. As the law states, our responsibility is to promote, advise, plan and evaluate. This is what the law contains, and it is clear that, overall, the objective has not been achieved. It will therefore be necessary to continue to explore new ways to advance respect for equality and coexistence in each locality from its own reality, its own framework and its own protagonists. This conflict, as you have said, has been going on for more than 20 years, and the lasting solution will only come from the hand of constructive dialogue to enable understanding. We are faced with a new opportunity. The new municipal corporations and the foral institution have a four-year horizon to promote the resolution of this conflict, which affects equality and also coexistence. And, in this sense, we recognize the movements of dialogue between representatives of the various boasters. The processes of change must occur in the same localities, in each municipality, from their reality and with their own path. I appeal to the political and social responsibility of all actors to insist on dialogue, the only valid way to resolve this conflict. The supra-municipal institutions have an active role in promoting and advising solutions. We are trying to do this within the framework of our powers, Mrs Arana. Do we need anything else? A constructive attitude on the part of the institutions and agents of the localities themselves. In other cases, progress has been made by adapting traditions that were born in different contexts. The involvement of citizenship has enriched traditions, ensuring the equal participation of women and men. It is clear, Mrs Arana, that the lasting solution will not come by imposition either by the presence or not of the lehendakari in a boast, but through dialogue and consensus. It is the way we will continue to drive between the new corporations and the agents involved. From the utmost respect, we are going to persevere in the goal of a campaign to ensure full equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "I'm asking you, Antonio Damborenea, members of the Basque Group, members of the Pogula team, co-ordination of the president between the Basque and the New Communciations." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, the new outlaws are being formed, even if they are not so new and all are known as old – some more than others – but they are known for a long time, which is an advantage, in addition to belonging to the same political party. There are a number of issues that concern us both with the Chambers, with the Basque Government, including with the municipalities, especially with regard to funding. That is why, having been more than eight years late in the Act on Contributions and pending a reform of the IRPF for more than two years, we urge you to take advantage of the new parliaments and the new deputies-general to implement the reforms that are needed at this time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u50	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Damborenea jauna, I effectively approach political coordination with the same criteria that we have maintained to date: diagnosis and shared strategy, collaboration, evaluation for continuous improvement, harmonization, transparency and efficiency. And, among the things that we also have as a working area, and not because it is July or summer, in fact, once the deputies have been formed, I will bring together the three Members-General, as well as the President of Eudel, when elected, for a coordinated work between all the administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, I am very pleased that you are already planning to meet in a few days with the new deputies-general and with the president or president of Eudel, because it is clear that the Act on Contributions, apart from its delay, is causing very curious dysfunctions. For example, the Basque Government, in the last two years, has left EUR 1 billion unimplemented, which would be unthinkable if parliaments or municipalities could do, when the municipal law itself granted new powers to municipalities lacking such funding. We therefore understand that this is, of course, one of the urgent needs of this country. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that, as far as we are concerned, there have also been major reforms. The company tax was done. We still have the IRPF, which we talked about two years ago. But, of course, a reform of the IRPF, I hope that when you meet with the Members-General what you propose is to lower it, not raise it. That was the approach with which we spoke and negotiated more than two years ago. I'm just going to ask you one thing, which is to set priorities, to set the course. Let's see, it's not the same deal with Bildu or the People's Party. We plant diametrically different things, and a government and a lehendakari can be asked and asked to have preferences and priorities. It cannot be that Mr Lehendakari gives everything absolutely the same. Therefore, what we want to know is whether the approach is going to be in the sense that we are proposing and that we are already proposing in its day, or it is going to be in another. In any case, I will tell you one thing, and, following the words of Mrs Tapia, who wanted to get to the navy blue, I recommend that you come to the navy blue and leave the red and red numbers to others, and, of course, raise the reforms that this country needs, which are, in this case, to lower the IRPF.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Damborenea, I believe that we have already talked on previous occasions about what was the explanation for the inexecution linked to what is the layout of the high-speed train, to the quota, etc. In any case, I would like to remind you that the Basque Government and the outside parliaments are participating in more than 50 inter-institutional relations bodies and that we are going to continue this coordination policy, which is yielding positive results. We share the same vision of the country's challenges and priorities: economic growth and employment, cohesion and social justice. There are many effective areas of collaboration. At the Basque Finance Council, we have agreed to update the Economic Concert and the liquidation of the quota, for example. We have approved a compensation fund that allows for the distribution of resources by mutual agreement and will also facilitate the renewal of the Act on Contributions, to which you referred, in which we are working in accordance with the agreements of 11 October in the Finance Council of 11 October last year. In the economic field, we have agreed on the strategy to support business and industry, the reactivation of disadvantaged areas and the regional employment plans. We share the R & D stake in the Science, Technology and Innovation Council, invoked in the two previous interventions. We have promoted the internationalization consortium and developed the technology parks strategy. In the social sphere, for example, we are committed to equality plans, youth plans or the Basque migration plan. We have agreed on measures to support families and reconciliation, as well as the fight against the wage gap. We participate in the "University + Enterprise" project, the vocational training council, dual training and entrepreneurship support. And, at this new stage, which has been beginning since yesterday, collaboration will be redoubled, because the experience of the last four years I believe has been fruitful. The experience of collaboration and coordination I believe that, in addition to being fruitful, we could say that it is being highly effective, especially in the field of... I would like to refer to the scope of fiscal harmonization through the Tax Coordination Body, to which local institutions have also been incorporated. We will, as I said, hold a meeting with the new outlaws to share diagnosis and continue working on the new stage. And one of the issues to be addressed – again – is that of the new Law on Contributions, as well as the shared evaluation of the results of the latest tax reform. You have referred to a single tax figure; I think we have the task of assessing the results of the tax reform as a whole, also taking the reference of each of the tax figures. In short, we will face the country's challenges through inter-agency collaboration, because it is part of our model. It's the model of our country and our government, and we'll take that model to work on all our relationships. I think it's effective, and it's a good result to euscal society, and that's my effort, my enthusiasm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interregation by Jon Hernandez Hidalez, members of the Podemos team to the Chief of Economics and Sub-Sertains, to retain the workers of Eukot's public company." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Tapia anderea, we asked you about an issue on which I asked you in November 2017, because we continue to think that you are in breach of the agreements you reach with the unions in the public company Euskotren regarding the maintenance of the structural template of the maintenance of the mobile units of the trains. It is already nine years of non-compliance, not only with the demands of the trade unions, but also with the agreements that you yourself have signed on different occasions. The last one, three days ago; at the door of the courts, in response to the demand of several trade unions, they have again signed that they will comply with what they have already signed on previous occasions that they will comply. Understand that the distrust, of course, that of our group, is capital. In 2010, nine years ago, the first agreements were reached on this issue, and I will focus on a very simple issue: 80 structural jobs in the maintenance of mobile units. That's right, isn't it? That's what was signed in 2010. We are in June, ending June 2019, and this agreement has not been fulfilled: 80 structural positions are not created in the maintenance of Euskotren mobile units. Subsequently, as these agreements were not fulfilled – and I already know that you are familiar with history, but I think it is my duty to report on what, of course, in our opinion, and coincident with that of the trade unions, has happened – in 2014-2015, in the face of this non-compliance, this issue came to this Parliament in the previous parliamentary term, and this Parliament adopted a non-legislative proposal calling for compliance with a number of issues, including the implementation of the 80 structural positions at once. The years have passed, and they have not been created. That same year 2015, in addition, after that parliamentary agreement, you reached a new agreement with the unions, which included the creation of these structural squares, with a specific date, which was that of 2018, the year in which you promised to have the squares already taken out, at least – if I remember correctly – 90% of them, 72 squares. This is still unfulfilled. I, for that reason, asked him, as I told him, in 2017 why it had not been fulfilled, and whether it was going to be fulfilled. You told me a number of things; among them, you told me that that non-law proposal had been perfectly fulfilled, which is not true: neither had it been fulfilled nor has it been fulfilled; and you told me that in the 2018 budgets there was the departure to create those places. Indeed, the game was, and indeed we are already in 2019, and that game did not have to be executed, because the places have not been created. I told him, on that occasion, that I didn't think they were going to solve that issue in 2018, and that the unions, even though you agreed with them, also thought the same thing, and that the mobilizations would come back, because you said that thanks to those agreements the unions had ended the mobilizations. And we are not wrong in our parliamentary group: the mobilizations have come back, because you do not comply, and the unions, despite, in my opinion, a great deal of patience and, above all, a huge willingness to dialogue with this government, I think the unions are seeing how they are deceived year after year. On that occasion, you also told me that in the future there would be different possible scenarios. We believe that you are already resolving the scenarios: you have recently re-opened a bid in May for an external company, CAF, to perform several of the mobile unit maintenance tasks. And they've only reached a new agreement with the unions because they've filed a lawsuit with them. In our view, it is serious that trade unions have to sue a public enterprise for non-compliance with agreements that have already been reached. We are not talking about new demands, but we are talking about demanding that the agreements, agreements, and so on, which in this case are included in the collective agreement itself, as you also know perfectly well. We think that behind this is the privatization model of your government, a privatization – I'm going to call it secrecy – that we see in other sectors, but that we are seeing in the company Euskotren. It was previously done with other services of the company: cleaning, security or maintenance of infrastructure. I know that we do not share any vision or even language; I know that this does not look like privatization to you; I know that you will talk about outsourcing. For us this is a secretive privatization, in this case of the public enterprise Euskotren. In addition, in this case, workers of external companies carry out jobs that the company could do perfectly with its operators and maintain that structural staff that you have committed and that you do not execute. The company could do it, but they do it outside workers; that's right, in public structures and in public workshops, paid with money from everyone. In the meantime, the staff's own workers lose their workload. We believe that this is the strategy of the Government, which does not go further because it is opposed by the trade unions, which not only defend their working conditions and their rights, but are also defending a public service that can be maintained with public workers who are perfectly prepared to do so, with workers of a public enterprise. What is most serious to us is that you now, at the door of the courts, have reached a new agreement that will not guarantee, if you do, that the 80 places to which you have committed, of course, before 2020 are created. We're already talking, counselor, about a decade. I think we're talking about a decade since the government made sure it was going to guarantee those 80 structural seats and they're not guaranteed. We therefore believe that you, in this particular matter, and Euskotren's leadership with you have no word, because they have failed too many times. Therefore, I, with this interpellation, the truth, will be honest with you: I do not expect much, because I have no guarantee that you will comply with a new agreement when you have signed a lot of agreements that do not comply on the same issue. What I do agree with, at least, is that you acknowledge that you have been failing to comply with these agreements for nine years. The last, that of 2015, to which I have referred, was talking about 2018 to have those 72 of the 80 places created, and it is not done. I ask you, at least, to acknowledge that you have not complied, to tell the workers that you have not complied, if your message is that you will finally comply. Of course, I have no confidence in that, but I think that at least you should recognize that you have not fulfilled it. Because what is happening here is that we have a public company, which has and could still have a greater capacity, enough to maintain mobile units with its own personnel, and is being done through workers from outside companies. Some of the workers are going to retire, and we have no guarantee that these places will be covered, and, above all, it is being made, in my opinion, with deceptions, with too many deceptions, because it is many years, nine years, and we are going to go now to a decade. If you want to reduce your own staff and want the work to be done with external staff, at least say it, and be honest with the unions; do not mess with them year after year with new agreements in which virtually the same is reflected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u58	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u59	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr Hernández, before we begin, a couple of clarifications, which I think is important. We are talking about Euskotren, who is the railway operator, and you were talking to me at a time of infrastructure maintenance. And it's because we're not wrong: the infrastructure is STD; it's two different things. Well, to answer your question, I'm going to refer to three aspects that I think it's important to analyze. Just as you have made history to me, I believe it is also important to look at this issue from a budgetary, work and regulatory point of view. Firstly, as I said at the time, in 2018, in 2018 budgets, there was already a specific item that said "Compliance, agreement, maintenance, railway mobile equipment", which intended to give an answer, precisely, to that GNP, which, by the way, is contained in the agreement of the collective agreement. In recent years, it is true that the company has been buying different mobile units, new, innovative mobile units, of different characteristics, which have been delivered over time, and therefore the contracts have been different. But, in either case, I think there are some that are called 900 and others that are called 950, which, to the effect, are simply renovations, new units, where it appeared that, given that they were technologically advanced, during the first phase, short-term maintenance –let's say – it was going to be carried out within the contract of the contracting company, while the long-term maintenance was going to be carried out by the company's own staff. And I think that's how it was collected, since those years of 2010 and later in 2015. But, well, as a result of that tension that existed because – let's say – there was some mistrust that this was going to be the case, and because it was thought that perhaps in the long term it would also be under contract, the Basque Government was urged in Parliament to duly comply with that commitment to cover those structural squares, those 80 structural squares, and, in response to those indications of 8 June 2015 of this Parliament, despite the fact that I was not responsible, what was agreed with the social side and with the unions is that from 2018 onwards, and once the 900 series maintenance contract was completed, that is, when that short maintenance period was reached, the long maintenance cycle would be carried out with those people. At the end of 2017, and with a forecast of 2018, the number of people, the number of existing vacancies, was 27, and were the places to be put into operation and should be covered. And we do not refer to 12 additional retirements that existed at the end of 2017, because they were budgetaryly contained in the draft budgets and they simply had to be put into operation or renewed, but they existed budgetaryly. It does not involve an increase in staffing; therefore, there was no problem. And we had to get the 27 new ones up and running. It is true, and it is also reflected in the 2018 draft budgets, that it was expected that, due to all the procedure to be carried out, it would not be possible to hire these people since the beginning of 2018, but that they would be hired in the last quarter. Therefore, the budget line that was collected was not the complete one, but was only the one that referred to the last quarter. Therefore, when we go to the extension of budgets for this year 2019, we find that the places cannot leave before April, since we have a budget of only a quarter of the needs to cover those places. However, as a result of the agreement in this Parliament and the urgent budgetary laws that were adopted, as of April 2019 we have the full envelope – not before – to be able to remove these places. From the direction of budgets, at that time we are allowed that item, and we already have the full item. Budgetaryly it is important to analyse it, because, however much one wants to do a series of actions and which are legally supported, budgetaryly they must also be supported; otherwise, the corresponding procedures do not pass. As for labour aspects, when we analyze the budgetary aspects, let us analyze the labour aspects. According to the rules in force in Euskotren, there is also an article 14 in the conventional rule which refers to how structural vacancies are covered – without doubt you know it – and, to this end, it begins by establishing the order of coverage according to a series of parameters that must be agreed with the workers, from the coupling of victims of gender violence to the last position, which would be that of swaps. Well, according to what was stated in that precept in 2018, the collective agreement began the process of covering those vacancies, taking into account that format. And, in order to carry out that order properly, the squares that had to be covered were agreed. From the lists resulting from the calls, and in response to the request of those responsible, and after responding to different situations that organizationally had to be addressed, it was agreed not before February 14, 2019 to cover five structural vacancies of mechanical and pneumatic maintenance technicians, after the resignation of a sixth, covering in full the list generated by the call that already came out. In addition, according to the provisions of Article 14, a series of medical skills analyses must be carried out, since it is a railway railway undertaking and must also be undertaken. In short, I believe that the important thing is to point out that this very month of June all these tests have been passed and that this procedure is currently being followed. What else? Obviously, in order to cover all these 27 places, in addition to those agreed to cover the initial vacancies of those 5-6 places, there are bases for calling these places which have also been presented to the social part, to the trade union part, and which at this time we have to cover. As for policy aspects, in order to be able to cover these positions, a tender must be made from an external company that carries out all the assessments, as you certainly know, and in May 2019 the company Tea Cegos has been hired to cover all that coverage, since we have the budget so that it can cover all the vacancies; on the one hand, that of the retirements and those 5-6 positions, plus all the rest of the vacancy coverage. Then our commitment is to do so; steps are taken. It is true that it is administratively complex, that the budgetary situation has led us to implement it in a much slower way than we would have liked, but, of course, they are being implemented, and the will is to continue to do so. Otherwise, we would not have awarded that contract in order to cover those vacancies. It is true – I insist – that it has been delayed, and, as a result of the budgetary extension, it has been further delayed from the account, but each and every aspect of the collective agreement has been fulfilled, and it is, of course, going to proceed to cover these places in the most appropriate way possible. We already have that tender in progress, and those 27 seats will be filled in accordance with that procedure. More – and I want to insist – we will cover the retirement places, which in 2017 were 12. It will have to be analyzed if there are any more, and, of course, at this moment I personally do not know it, but the company sure knows it. It should also be noted that on November 1, 2018, it was agreed with the trade union party that it would be necessary to analyze how to analyze the bases of the external call of these places, which we both knew it was impossible that in 2018 it would be possible to cover them. It was November. However, I want to insist that, despite all this, the whole procedure has been put in place and that will continue to cover these places and meet the structural staffing of the 80 people and comply with what this Parliament demanded of Euskotren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u61	Yes, ma'am. I am aware that you have not been at the forefront of the responsibility for this matter from the beginning, and I am not going to assign you responsibilities to your predecessors. But, for us, of course, it is very important, and therefore I was telling you that I do not expect too much of your answer in this inquiry, because two years ago you came to me to say the same thing. No, no, we're doing things to make it happen, and I'm talking to you about a matter of 80 structural places in a public enterprise that now has around – I think – about 50 structural places; that is, we're talking about about 30 structural places. To fulfill this, a decade. Man, I can understand that whoever follows me in my group, in the opposition, can continue to ask the Government, who follows you, and that the Government continues to say that they are doing things and that they therefore comply with the agreements. The agreements have not been implemented. The government – I don't customize it in you in what is not yours, but in what is yours – the government is not fulfilling this. And the obstacles are not so many if you have will, because creating those 30 public places in such a vast space of time do not tell me that it is such a technically complicated issue. It's not that technically complicated. Indeed, a number of issues need to be addressed. Trade unions have been open from the beginning to talk to you about these issues as well, and the Government is continually delaying this issue over time. We maintain the political thesis that this is part of the government's policy, which prefers other types of public management. And we also believe that the unions, since 2010, are also coinciding with this position. You tell me or clarify me, you explain that the workshops are not Euskotren's, but they are also public workshops paid for with public money. The criticism I have made in this regard is that it is infrastructure built with public money and paid with public money where workers from outside companies are working. Therefore, it is a service that, in part, is outsourced, and, for us, outsourcing of sustained management in public service time is a privatization, beyond the fact that the ownership of the Euskotren company remains public. There'd be more to it. Otherwise, it would be a complete privatization; it would be the model that defends others who are even more to the right than you. But to us on this issue above all that concerns us – and that is what I did expect at least from this inquiry – is that the government recognizes that it has not yet complied with the agreements it has reached with the trade unions. And you can argue that you have failed because there are technical difficulties, because there are budgetary difficulties, that that, excuse me, but it also depends on the government itself. You can argue what you want, but you can recognize the unions that you have not fulfilled so far, because, if not, it is very difficult to trust you when you say that you are now going to comply and that the procedure is already in place and that from 1 November the labour market will come out and that we will go to 2020 and perhaps 2021. It is very difficult to trust a Government that fails to comply with agreements and is not even able to acknowledge that it has not been able to comply with those agreements. Because that is the reality today: those 80 places are not created. We are in June 2019, and you can argue what you want, you can argue difficulties of all kinds, but at least you have to recognize the reality. And the objective reality is that these 80 seats are not created when there have been government commitments since 2010 that these 80 seats are structural. We're talking about a decade, and that seems important to me. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u62	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u63	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr Hernandez, we're not going into the political thesis because I don't think it's... Well, it may be the place, but that's not the point. However, I do want to make reference, at least, to what I have been responsible for this department and, therefore, responsible for Euskotren at this time. The units' contracts had a certain form, i.e., hiring the units and, in addition, short-term maintenance, and it was true that it was agreed that long-term maintenance would be done with the structural staff. Accepted. And to do this, we had to establish and analyze what were the coverages of the places that had to be made: 27 in 2017, which is what the 2018 budgets are drawn up with. I believe that more commitment than the budget that these places are going to be provided cannot exist, since the coverage of certain places and, in this case, places that are not provided or the coverage of vacant places is made by the existence of credit, in addition to all the work aspects that must be agreed in agreement, in addition to all the legal aspects. But if there is no budget item, they cannot be carried forward. I believe that the compromise is demonstrated there; in 2018 it was already the start. It is true that it could not be executed, since it was the end, and, in that sense, we have been delayed. Now, what is more important, to recognize that delay or that we are on the road to be able to equip them? I think the second thing. 2019; there is a difficulty, since we are in budgetary extension, and that item could have remained in the same situation and providing only the coverage for a quarter. We have made the effort to ensure that this urgent law is covered throughout the year. I believe that we have also shown that we want to achieve that goal. They've already left, they've already got five of the squares. I believe that this is also part of compliance, and at the moment we have tendered out so that the rest of the seats can be covered. I think that's also a demonstration that it's going to be done. There's money and there's a process going on. Late? It's possible. But there is money, there is a budget and there is a procedure in progress agreed in accordance with all that is regulated in the corresponding article in Euskotren, agreed with the workers in the way of doing so. I think more will than that is impossible to prove. So, let's work on making this a reality. And I would like to differentiate one thing, because on many occasions we talk about public enterprise and public service, and I think it's different to talk about business and service. In this case, we have a public company that provides a public service. And that's the way it is. And most, the vast majority of important, relevant actions for that service are with public personnel of the company, and you know it relatively well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, the lawmakers of the Casanova Alonso team assembled to the head of economics and subordinates, to make it easier for the setting up of the Amazon-like corporations about the change industries of the industrial fields." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u65	Good morning, everyone. The Amazon company has announced that it will open a logistic site in Trapagara. That area is 8.000 m 2 He'll have about 50 jobs as the company predicted. The installations will be placed in the property of Babcock Wilcox, which has been made a recalation of the territory on account of a negotiation in secret; and, expressly, ad hoc. The mayor voted that the Socilist Party and the Euncist Party of the South voted that this measure would produce employment, and also that there would be new incomes for the council. But we think that what we get with these operations is to put corporations based on preventives, which will destroy more jobs than they are going to produce, and besides, such operations bring us the loss of the industrial land which is indispensable and of the strategic. In front of that, I'd like to know if your government is protecting these kind of operations or not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u66	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u67	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Casanova, the government has not expressed any attitude in this case. I think you showed up in your request, too, "apladir"; something like that appeared. And we didn't do anything of the kind, and we didn't take any active initiative in this case. What you asked me would be another thing: What's the government position? And we always say that when activity is produced, when employment is produced, and, in a sense, when wealth is produced, it is important to consider this operation well, and in this sense it may be interesting. In this case, he's in the Left. We have often mentioned in this country that we have problems in this area from the point of view of employment, and not only because we have to put on a tremendously different department, but because there are different problems in it, where many kinds of employments must be established. That's what we were talking about when we mentioned that we need high-level jobs, but also lower, because we have different levels. And in this case, in the left, unemployment is a great deal, and, above all, we've got most of our problems at the bottom. On the other hand, this Government has neither promoted nor qualified nor requalified; it is an action of the City Council, which has positively valued the generation of employment in the environment, and it is something we have discussed: employment of all characteristics, because it is necessary. In this case, I believe that the Government is always in favour of operations that generate resources, that generate employment and that create the possibility of a decent life for people who go to work there. And, in addition, the logistics sector is becoming a relevant sector, which can orderly generate wealth and employment, at all levels, from higher-quality employment and higher-tech employment to, let's say, lower-skilled employment, but which is also important in an area like Ezkerraldea. and, above all, as it is in the Left, in this case we are thus considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u69	Counselor, I deny you the greatest. This operation is not going to generate either employment or wealth, because in the face of these 50 jobs there is an incalculable number of jobs that are going to be lost, and it is empirically proven. The Left Margin is the paradigm of failure, of the tertiaryization of a region. This outsourcing has brought a stagnation of socio-economic indicators and a maintenance of Ezkerraldea in line. The loss of industrial identity and the loss of the industrial engine of the region is the one that has led Ezkerraldea to be where he is today. It is therefore not going to create employment. And if wealth is created, it's not going to be created for the escualde. Look, this is a photo of the Babcock facility – not exactly where Amazon is going to be located – from the central facility, and here is the Pampa grass, which is an invasive species, is an invasive species. It is a good metaphor, because Amazon is also an invasive species, but it is not an invasive species because it comes from outside; tomatoes, corn, many plants have come from outside – this is not xenophobia, as it once arose. There are companies that come from outside and are very well received. Species become invaders when they destroy what's there. And Amazon is a species that destroys what's there. It's going to destroy trade. It is a company characterized by its monopolistic practices, for abusing the loopholes offered by taxation to pay the minimum of taxes possible, and it is also a company paradigm of precarious employment, denounced in infinity of places for tightening the working conditions to the maximum. Look, I believe that the political parties in this country are not to do favors to the richest man in the world, so that it is still a little bit more; they are to bet on the generation of quality employment, in the trade sector and in the industry sector. And you, as the most responsible for the country's industrial policy, even if it is not up to you to requalify or requalify a land, will have to have a vision of what you want for the Left Margin, and, in this particular case, there is a cost of opportunity, because the soil is a scarce good. And the soil is used to do favors to Amazon or the soil is used to attract industry to Ezkerraldea, and you have done leave, because it does not fall within your priorities, and we say it over and over again: we have here an industrial land, from the old Babcock Wilcox, which is an absolutely strategic land. And we ask you, once and for all, to lead the conversion and activation of this land and the struggle for the attraction of advanced companies. Ezkerraldea can't take any more supermarkets; Ezkerraldea can't take no more logistics. It is clear that there must be jobs for all kinds of qualifications, but there must be a leitmotiv Yesterday we talked about malls, about limiting them. In practice, they favor them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u70	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u71	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Casanova, I'm going to start with the same thing I said to you in the committee: do favors..., let's talk to a little bit of property, because it looks like we're, I don't know, giving away the floor, and the floor in this country isn't giving up. Secondly, there is soil in Ezkerraldea, and this soil, by the way, is not owned by this Government, and it cannot act on it. There is enough ground at this time for the industrial activities to be established, and in fact even in Ezkerraldea new opportunities are opening up; in the Meatzaldea area, too. Thirdly, an industrial activity coexists with a tertiary, because, at this moment, logistics why is not an industrial activity? Doesn't a raw material that reaches an industry come as an industrial activity? It comes as an industrial activity, and, at the moment, logistics is not what it was either; it is absolutely modernized, automated, and has the capacity to introduce new jobs of very high quality. Then let's not say that logistics is third level, since it is something relevant and, of course, essential for our productive fabric. And, if you want to discuss trade, I think you had an opportunity yesterday to discuss trade. Now, let us not confuse the plans, let us not confuse the plans, because I think we are talking about an activity that can be established in Euskadi or elsewhere. If we can take advantage of the establishment in Euskadi, the creation of jobs and of course there may be different characteristics and different infrastructures that may be acquired in Euskadi, why are we going to say no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interpology, the legislatures of the Ostero Galiridas of the Environmental, Land Planets, and Housings, concerning the development of the gases that produce the effect of the heat." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u73	Good noon, everyone. If anyone doubts, we sometimes have things that are useful to something in the control unit. At least two immediately following the control of the climate change, we asked questions about the law of climatical change, and you published the law. And now, when I've entered the interpenetration about the use and communication of the data, this very week, luckily, and after so much time, it's taken out the inventory. So we can say that the control unit is useful for something. Anyway, we're at the end of the class, and I think it's worth it here, putting the data on the table, leaving several elements for summer reflection, and that's what I intend to do. Not only because summer is coming, but we are already at the end of the third political course, and I think we can make a sort of trial balance about climate change and climate change. And I'm not here today with an attack and a defense scheme. I want to explore more, and leave it to reflection, to see how ours are fighting a climate change, where we are, and whether not only to talk about it, but to make people understand the importance of the matter. It's come to discuss climate change or climate emergency. All the countries are talking about it, and yesterday the National Asanbal of France declared a climate emergency. We'll soon talk about it, too, but I think we have to define it so much before we do, and see if we agree. De Beho On one side, one of what a punk said, and I think we ought to put that on the table almost forever, and he said: "La Crisis climatica no es un a ambiental problem." He said, though the titular be a little surprising: "No es un ambiental; es pollicico, es económico, es de salud, es de movilidad, son conflitos interncioles, somigricines." So when we talk about climate change, we're talking about everything. That one. Eta bestea, beste rapporteur batek esan zona, interesgarria bear baita ere: "We must speak clearly, with hardness, but accompanied by alternatives". I think, then, that we should become a premisses too, and I think that this Government is the case with us. I will now explain why, instead of talking with severity and coarseness, it is not merely because we are and how we are and how we are doing, but by smoothing the data a little, it is for this very purpose that the argument is treated as a rule, and that politics, instead of being effective, are more made out of hypocrisy or hypocrisy. Iruditzen zait komunikazioaz hitz egin behar dugula hasteko, eta e honekin ere ados zauden, éta hau da nire galderetako bat: let's see when and how we communicate climate data. This is one of the complaints that I have had throughout the legislature, because the reports, in particular the greenhouse gas emissions inventory published by Ihobe, are coming more and more late. I think we should agree that, if we are faced with a climate emergency or if the issue of climate warming and, therefore, the emission of greenhouse gases is a central issue, we must speed up the communication of information about the real situation or how close we are to the real situation at the moment. That is, it does not seem to me tolerable and should not be tolerable henceforth that we receive on June 26, 2019 the data referring to the year 2017, at a time when we are receiving all data from Europe the following year, regardless of whether since April, but already 16 months late, these data are published in Eustat. And not only in this, but in what manner this government communicates. I mean, a conference about the climate change you made in March, a congregregation, and that's where you made a complete conversation: Who was coming, who you were going, a campaign, and so on. Well, it seems to me that climateal data, which at last ought to be the effect of politics, is the data that settles reality, and I think there must also be a communication about it, if there are data or reports in April or June, about which there must be press conferences. They're gonna be tough, but they warned us. Though they must be hard, the data must be communicated, and I find it surprising that this chief physician does not press with the latest climateal data and say: "Listen, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is crude, and we need deep changes, otherwise we won't get enough consciousness in our society to make the profound changes that really must be done." It seems to me, too, that we ought to speak of responsibility, and I said this in the first instance. We're either small or big emisores, about which I think we ought to talk, because this government often gives the impression that the Basque community is small emisore, and it's not a small emisore at all. And he leaves responsibility in the hands of the great emisores. If we are beyond the average in Europe, it seems at least to me that our ends, which we also agree with, must be at least such as the European Union imposes upon them, if they are no larger than the rest of the community, the crude internal prosperity, as far as it is above the average in Europe. So it seems to me that if we really want to be a European pioneer, we'll have to put it there. Then there's another thing, and I hope we can get this over with for once. We must talk of differences, and the reference leads us all the time to deception. And I think this government should take a reference for once in 1990, and not play with 2005. And it is true that the European Union, when it established the objects of the country in 2014, permitted the existence of references in 2005; but we must not forget that the objects of the European Union have been the objects of the whole time, and that they will be 1990s. years old, years of Kiotio's reference. And it seems to me that this also is very important, because if we study the data later, they have a great influence on ours. I think we should talk about the data, and this was somehow the basis of the interpenetration, although there are other things left outside. I think we have some headlines here. I threw them in the ante-room too, very serious and very crude, and it is 2016-2010 at that interval, las emissionnes de CO. 2 equivalents increased by 5.5%, which is an atrocious fact – I think we have to say it with those words. Not only that, but it is the worst annual partial data in 17 years, because we have to return to 2002 to find a data of these characteristics. It must also be said that, for the first time since 2013, five years later, we again emit more than 20 million tonnes of CO. 2 equivalents. So, let's say that in the fight against climate change, at one stroke, we have swept away the work of five years or at least the results of five years, and this puts us – and this is another of the sheets with which I think it is summed up quite a bit of what I am saying – this puts us with a per capita emission of 9.2 tonnes per inhabitant of the Basque Autonomous Community, puts us three places worse than the previous year, but, above all, it takes us even further away from the average of the European Union, which is 8.4 tonnes per head; we emit 800 kilos of CO per head. 2 more than an average European. This places us in the number 19 position – if we were a country and our data were considered as a country – in the number 19 of 28; so much back than the average. I think those facts are very troubling. I don't know what you'll think of it. And I would like to say another or two, before I'm done. Nik you had ezen, klima-aldaketaren aurkako borrokaren inguruko balanceze bat egin behar badugu, interest her, hutere, KLIMA 2050 strategyren inguruan hitz Egypt, zeren 2015ean onartu baitzen, age hori da zuk eskuliburu bezala ebiltzen duzuena aldaketa klimatikoaren aurkako borrokan. Eta nik uste dut onartu behar dugula dagoeneko that the Basque Strategy against Climate Change 2050 has not worked. It has not worked because it was approved in 2015, we are in 2019, and the intermediate results, at least, put us in a worse situation than before the KLIMA 2050 strategy was approved. So, there's also a couple of questions coming to me: one, or they're poorly designed and that's what you think, or if it turns out that the climate change strategy can't have an impact because it doesn't address central aspects like energy issues.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u74	Thank you, Mr. Otero. "Merry representative, it's your word, Mr. Ariola.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Otero, I sincerely thank you for your interest in this matter and I say this to you without any irony. Moreover, I absolutely share your concern about the resurgence of greenhouse gas emissions that has been observed in Euskadi in 2017, because the reduction of emissions that cause the warming of the atmosphere and that are behind climate change is one of the central, if not the main, axes of our environmental policy. But before I go into this matter, allow me a nuance on the availability of emission data, because, although I also told you in the previous full monitoring session, if you have the role of discoverer of information that is public and fully accessible, the greenhouse gas inventory in Euskadi is a record of its own by the Department of the Environment, and it does so through Ihobe. This public society has taken the existing data in the Autonomous Community from various sources; among other things, the energy balance drawn up by the Basque Energy Authority, which in turn feeds on the data provided by the Ministry of Industry and also on the waste inventories of the outside bodies. And, from them, he elaborates the inventory statistics tables, which are reviewed and consolidated by the department's statistical body. The inventory of greenhouse gases is therefore a statistical operation covered by the programme and the Basque Statistical Plan, so that the tables drawn up by our department are forwarded to Eustat and published on both its website and that of our department. And, specifically, the inventory tables for 2017 have been available on our website since April 2nd for everyone who wanted to meet them. Countries publish their inventories in accordance with the requirements of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, two years after the inventory year. In Euskadi we have made this publication several months ahead of that established deadline. However, Ihobe also produces annually a brief disclosure document, in which it analyses and evaluates the recorded data, and, depending on the results, a more extensive report, which seems to be to which you constantly refer with inventory. For your peace of mind, I was going to tell you that the report had it available in bilingual format on the website of Ihobe and Ingurumena, but I have already seen that it has it. Better. Turning to the central issue, of course we are concerned about the trend that seems to indicate the resuming of emissions in 2017. The data indicate that in the Basque Country there has been an increase, as you said, of 5.5% this year, with absolute values of 20 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent; a similar percentage to that of Spain as a whole, while in the European Union they have also increased, but more slightly. Comparing these figures with 2005, it is estimated that the decrease in greenhouse gases since then is 22%, and this places us slightly below the path marked in the Basque Climate Change Strategy KLIMA 2050, which sets a 40% reduction target for 2030. But as important as the raw data is to know the reason for this upturn, since the identification of the causes of the problem is essential to act on it effectively. We know from the outset that the transport sector accounts for 32 % of greenhouse gas emissions, which are almost entirely attributable to road transport, 96 %. Of this fraction, 60% is generated by tourism and the rest by freight transport. Well, what the data for 2017 tells us is something that we were already warning: transport has had a great responsibility in the increase in the three territories. Its emissions have risen by 6% across the EU compared to 2016, well above 1.6% of Spain as a whole, although it must be said that in the European Union the increase has also been high, by 7%. But the energy sector, which accounts for 33% of emissions and which has seen an increase of 6%, must also be highlighted. Exogenous causes appear here, because it is attributable to the increase in coal-fired electricity production in the entire peninsular system, due to the low hydraulic activity this year. We believe that this increase has been exceptional and that the abandonment of coal in the coming years and an improvement in hydraulic production will improve this record. But we do not miss the low penetration of renewable energies into the Basque energy mix, which we urgently need to improve, as Councillor Arantza Tapia pointed out the other day when announcing the new sectoral territorial plan in this area. Industry has also contributed its share by an increase of 6 %, as a result of the sector's increased activity this year, reflected in an added contribution to GDP of 4 %. It should be noted that the increase in the intensive and energy industrial sectors affected by emissions trading was 1 % and that these registers represent a decrease of 42% since 2005. Unregulated sectors, composed of small and medium-sized enterprises, have increased their emissions by 6%, and here is another of our battle horses: the unregulated industrial sector, which constitutes the bulk of our industrial fabric. The rest of the sectors, such as the residential sector, while also reflecting a certain rebound, are not significant given their low contribution in the overall Basque emissions. The ratio of per capita emissions expressed in tonnes of CO 2 per capita was 9.2, when in 2016 it was 8.7 tons, and by then it exceeded the average European Union value of 8.4 tons per inhabitant. As a reference, we have a lower value for countries such as Belgium, Finland, the Netherlands and Germany, but higher than the United Kingdom, Italy, France and Spain as a whole. Although, if we put this value in relation to the gross domestic product, expressed in purchasing power parity, while the European Union index is 100, that of Euskadi was 87 in 2017, three points higher than the previous year, but also lower than the index of the whole of Spain. I wonder what the intention of this advisor is to turn around this worrying trend in emissions from the warming of the atmosphere. Well, look, the most important, the fundamental thing is to involve the whole of Basque society in this endeavour. And believe me, I am not shaking my responsibilities as an environmental adviser because the core powers of intervention in this area do not belong to our department. It is that the fight against climate change, even in a small country that barely causes 0.5% of the European Union's total emissions, commits us all: people, institutions and society as a whole. We already know that we are not guilty of the vast majority of emissions in the world and not even of the European Union, but we are responsible for taking action each of us to try to control this situation. Therefore, addressing this problem must have a multi-level solution, aligning all areas of the Basque administration: the government, the parliaments and the municipalities, with common objectives, but at the same time it must have cross-cutting treatment. The climate crisis is not an exclusively environmental problem. Its consequences and the response to avoid them will affect all areas of our lives, from economy and energy to health or employment. And this means that we must be able to involve the whole of the citizenry in the solutions, and also involve that citizenship in the political decisions that are made, because many of them will have to be unpopular, even if they are essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u76	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. To answer, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u77	Yes, thank you for your explanation, Mr. Arriola. To communicate, of course, that the data for 2017 are on April 2, 2019, when there have been previous years in which in December of the same reference year, or the following year, the data were already communicated, I believe that, in times of concern with the climate issue, I do not know whether we could agree or not that the placing of those data to the public should be speeded up. You're always giving me 2005 reference data; I don't know if we're going to agree on this. I think the 1990 reference data are more interesting; I insist, Kyoto reference year. But, of course, that is where the difference with Europe still goes much further. With the data we have for 2017, the latest ones published, it turns out that our decrease is only 6% compared to 1990, and the average European decrease is 25%; 6% Euskadi decrease and 25% decrease compared to the European Union. And I think you, once again, insist... I believe that the spirit of what was spoken of in the summer is, precisely, to speak with that clarity and with that hardness that I talked about all the time. It gives me the impression that you're still trying to sweeten the data. He says we're small emitters. Well, I don't understand where we are small emitters, when the global average is 4.7 tons per capita and our average is 9.2 tons, when the European Union average is 8.4 tons and our average is 9.2 tons. I believe that being above the EU average, which is already well above the world average, is to be very big emitters. Another thing is that the total volume, for the limited population we have, whatever it is, and the per capita volume issued is as high as 9.2 tons. I don't understand how we can be talking about small emissions. In any case, there are some issues that remain on the table, which is – and I insist – your responsibility to the extent that you are in the Department of Environment and it seems that climate policy comes from the Department of Environment. I think there's a data that changes everything. One analyses emissions data a little bit and sees that, in a direct or indirect way, that is, through direct heat production or through electricity consumption, 86 % of the total greenhouse gas emissions come from the burning of fossil fuels; more or less 30 % or 32 % of the industry, if electricity is added; 33 % of transport, plus 15 % of energy transformation. If we are talking about 80% of greenhouse gas emissions through the burning of fossil fuels, I understand – and I leave it as a suggestion too, as a summer reflection – that climate action cannot be done in a government that has energy and environmental issues separated. That is why we have been insisting from the beginning of the legislature that in a composition of government, everything that does not have joint climate change and energy transition policies cannot be, ezin litezke izan eginkorrak, esan nahi dut. And for me, the data which has been found here are merely an illustration of it: that there is no possible efficiency being handled only by the environment, regardless of the neurotic accounts. Therefore, I believe that in the pre-eminent governments, when formed, this subject must be of great importance. And, to finish, and to look forward to a little further, I think that KLIMA 2050 strategy seems to me to have been completely old-fashioned, but now, for 2050 carbono strategies for the year are being recorded everywhere, and if we examine KLIMA 2050, it has no end of zero for 2050 years, but a much lower purpose. In fact, we would be talking about a decline, according to KLIMA 2050, in 1990 levels, with current policies of 30%, and, with additional policies, of 65% by 2050. With this, the Basque Government's climate action guide cannot in any case be the KLIMA 2050 strategy. And, if the action guide is going to be that unlikely climate change law, then I understand that it's not going to give time to approve this at all, and that we're going to continue with KLIMA 2050, and it's true that the law didn't solve big issues either.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u78	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Otero, we can discuss whether what we are doing from the government is enough or not, but neither can you deny me that we are doing things, that we are doing important things. Because I have commented on it in my first speech: the fight against climate change is and has been the leitmotiv And we have endeavoured to update the environmental regulatory framework; we are working on the environmental administrative law, which seeks to speed up and simplify administrative processing, but also better control of the impact of economic activity; and we are also working on the law of conservation of natural heritage, which reinforces the importance of nature in our lives. I hope that the drafts of both laws will enter this House next July; that is my objective. But we have also proposed..., you mentioned a draft of the Basque climate change law, resuming the attempt promoted in your day by the socialist government of Patxi López. And, of course, you tell me about the 2050 Strategy and you say that you are out of date. The 2050 Strategy needs to be reviewed, indeed, and it will need to be reviewed in the heat of the objectives set out in the Climate Change Act, which raises emissions neutrality in 2050. And, logically, in order to achieve that goal, when we have the law, the strategy will have to adapt to the law, and we will have to adapt the measures so that those objectives provided for in the law can be met. The science and the most aware sectors of our society urge us, both at the global level and at the global level, to take ambitious decisions, and we have therefore considered it essential to promote this Basque law of climate change, which guides and frames the different strategies and plans that are being developed sectorally, from the fields of mobility, energy, education, etc., and to establish a governance of climate change, to have tools to counter it and to implement a discipline for the fulfilment of its obligations. But we are also doing much more than the development of the regulatory framework. We are driving the network of municipalities for sustainability Udalsarea 2030, to deploy what is the local action with climate perspective. We have aid, such as Berringurumena, for the carrying out of research and climate adaptation projects in the various municipalities in certain circumstances; the Climatec projects, studies on adaptation to climate change, which are providing us with knowledge in order to be able to make political decisions on climate scenarios and projections, both as regards the rise of sea level and the health of people; the circular economy strategy, which we are dealing with, which will be ready at the end of this year and which aims to be one of the transforming tools in a system of production and consumption in environmental terms, with the aim of making the leap of the linear economy, of using and pulling, a circular to reduce, recycle and reuse, applying this to the management of our waste, and not only to urban waste, but also to industrial waste, such as steel slags, paper logos or incineration slags, or to the problem of contaminated soils, and, at the same time, to encourage in our companies the eco-design or circularity of the products of the critical sectors, such as the Community's waste management, to the incorporation of mineral materials; As you can see, we are not standing still, but no one is hiding that a problem like the climate crisis is not solved either with the work of a department or with the commitment of a single government. Responding to this challenge requires a concerted commitment at a global level, although it is true that starting at home. The process of discussing the climate change law that we have put on the table is a good opportunity to set the goals that we set ourselves and the path that we must take to help our planet save it from ourselves. Because, ultimately, we have to act now; we cannot let the next generations act, because it will surely be late, and, still, if we are able to implement objectives and implement measures, we will be in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u80	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interrelation, the members of the Posteparation of the World-Puntains, María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz, lópez de Munininka Popula, made to the Chief of the Environmental Planting, and Housing Houses, to declare the northern or intermediate sectors of the mass of the subterranean water of Miranda to be polluted by nitrantos." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councilman, I would like to ask you about the statement by the northern and intermediate sectors of Miranda's alluvial groundwater mass as an area vulnerable to nitrate pollution and the non-declaration by the southern sector. As you already announced in this House in May 2018, and also did the director of URA in committee later, in response to some questions about the 2017 annual report, concerning the area vulnerable to nitrate contamination of the groundwater mass in Vitoria, Eastern sector, Dulantzi and Western, was your department analyzing the expansion of the vulnerability area in the Lantarón area as well, since the data collected by the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation and the Basque Water Agency itself in recent years have suggested the desirability of studying a possible declaration of the vulnerable area in the groundwater mass of the Miranda de Ebro alluvial, since no improvement is detected in some areas following the adoption of the 2011 decree, the Decree of Good Agricultural Practices. The report on prior diagnosis and proposed limitation of this area studies three areas: the north, the middle and the south. In the north, the reference and control points maintain a decreasing trend, but with some points above 50 mg/l. The intermediate zone, with nitrate values above 50 mg/l, has been stable for 9 years; there is no variation. And the southern area has lower nitrate concentrations; almost all control points show a decreasing trend; there is some point that is above 50 mg/l, maintaining the average value of the last four years below 25 mg/l in that area. In this southern area, in 2011, there was an event to pour organic compounds by Gequisa, the chemistry that we have always called it, and, at present, it seems that the remediation work of this affected area is still being maintained. –we are in 2019–. And the 2017 report to which he referred, the previous to this statement, says that these discharges indirectly exert additional pressure on the water quality of the quaternary alluvial aquifer. The proposal for a vulnerable zone declaration, according to the report, is for the northern and intermediate areas, leaving the southern area out, although it is proposed to maintain the control network currently operational, including the points in the southern area, and to include the control point of the Hydrographic Confederation. This is what is stated in the Order of 15 October 2018, which declares the northern and midway areas, and I, Mr. Counsellor, contrasted the data, read the data, raises some doubts, which we would like, if possible, to be clarified, because it says that the area of the southern sector has values below 25 mg/l, and therefore the declaration as a vulnerable area is not recommended. So, I go to the data, and he talks to me about a point, Cabriana, with 58.4 mg/l. Which means he's over 50. Then, in the other points, there are 23, 11, 5, 17.9 and 21.9. And they say, "Well, this area is below the average of 25; thus, it does not enter into that statement." But, of course, if I go to the areas of Vitoria and I see the Eastern zone of Vitoria, there are three areas that are, one, in 19.3; the other, in 5.6; the other in 15.5 – I speak of Eskarmendi, Arkaute and Salburua – but they remain declared a vulnerable area. So, here is an added element that I would like to explain to me, because, if not, because of the thesis that you maintain, these areas would also have to be outside the vulnerable area of Vitoria. That's what we, modestly, interpret, and that's why I'm asking you, in case you can clear me up. We could conclude that the eastern vulnerable zone of Vitoria, as I told you, has much lower values than those in the southern part of the Miranda alluvial. However, they are not excluded from this vulnerable area – that's what I was telling you – and, as I was saying before, in this southern area there is an added circumstance, which indirectly also exerts pressure on the waters of the Miranda alluvial. And then, Mr. Counsellor, I would like to clarify this term; what is the reason or reasons why the southern area is not included in the vulnerable area. Mr. Counsellor, also, having read the report and seen the data, it seems logical – and has given us doubt – that, if we are working to include these areas as vulnerable to nitrate pollution since before 2017, and in October 2018 they publish the corresponding order, the 2018 report on areas vulnerable to nitrate pollution should collect data from these new areas. "We understand," but he doesn't make a single reference, and I'd like to know what the reason is. They say in the order that the action plan applicable to this vulnerable area will be the same as that already exists for the Vitoria area and its sectors. And, then, counselor, I would like to know if we are faced with two similar situations, with two identical situations, because, if they are similar and identical, I understand that it is the same plan, but perhaps, and if, as the 2017 report says, the dumping of organic compounds produced by Gequisa in 2011 constitutes an additional pressure that affects the groundwater of the alluvial aquifer under the fields of cultivation located south of the industrial complex, would it not be appropriate or would it require additional measures to those of the plan that you quote in the order, which is that of Vitoria? And, as a last question, and for the moment, they repeat in the report that, as they say, they are following the work of remedial action in the area affected by the contamination of 2011 in Gequisa. And what actions are discussed in that report? What are you guys doing? What actions are left to complete the remediation of these contaminated lands? When will these lands end? After the decontamination of these lands has been completed, would this area also be included in the group of vulnerable nitrate areas? Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u82	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Mr. Arriola, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, as you are well aware, the 1991 European Nitrate Directive, which requires Member States to protect waters against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources, was transposed into Spain by the Royal Decree of 16 February 1996. Already in December 1998, Euskadi adopted a decree that issued rules for the declaration of vulnerable areas and adopted the Code of Good Agricultural Practice in the Basque Country. In the additional provision of the decree, the eastern sector of the Vitoria-Gasteiz hydrogeological unit was designated as a vulnerable area. In 2008 and 2009, the scope of this vulnerable area was extended to sector Dulantzi and sector West Foronda 1 and 2. The action plan to be carried out by the administrations concerned in the areas declared vulnerable to pollution by nitrates from agriculture was drawn up in October 2008 in an order that remains in force. Finally, in the normative field, last October, the order to which you refer was approved at the request of the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure and the Department of the Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing, and the northern and intermediate sectors of Miranda's alluvial groundwater are declared as vulnerable areas. In this way, protection has been extended to the entire mass of underground water existing in the subsoil of the Alavesa plain and the area closest to the Ebro, a territory where very intensive agriculture is carried out. In this context, the measures to be implemented in vulnerable areas, under the action plan, consist mainly of the regulation of the use of fertilizers, which is controlled by the department responsible for agriculture; and, in turn, the monitoring of nitrate concentrations in water to verify the effectiveness of the measures is carried out by the Department of the Environment, through the Basque Water Agency. In the order of last October, which declared a vulnerable area part of Miranda's alluvial groundwater mass, it certainly refers, as you said, to the accidental spill produced in 2011 by the company General Chemica SA in the Zubillaga polygon of Lantarón. I make it clear, however, that this episode is isolated and controlled, and I will immediately detail what has been done to correct the pollution caused. It has nothing to do with the decision to give greater protection to these groundwaters, because the reason is the nitrates generated by the use of fertilizers in agriculture and which are filtered into the ground. The full details of the dossier of the spill produced at the time by the company I mentioned, both with regard to the application to the company of the regulations on integrated pollution prevention and control and to the rules on contaminated soil, are at your disposal. But today I will point out the most important steps that have been taken from our department with all rigour. In January 2012, the reports of the Ebro Hydrological Confederation and URA on the discharge entered the environmental body, a discharge that the Basque Water Agency had detected the previous month in the routine sampling carried out in the area. The analysis of the sample showed significant concentrations of several pollutants, including toluene, aniline, and benzothiazole, and its presence was also detected more than 1 kilometre below General Química's facilities. From 20 January 2012 to date, a number of actions have been taken to monitor and control water and soil pollution, starting with the requirement for the company to take measures to prevent further damage, which has not been reoccurred. The procedure for the declaration of soil quality provided for in the law, which involved, inter alia, a detailed investigation of soil quality of the entire industrial complex of the company, and the submission of relational proposals to correct the pollution episode and prevent new situations such as those that occurred in the future, proposals which included monitoring the quality of groundwater in the industrial complex and its environment, and a quantitative risk analysis, a waste removal and excavation plan, and the design and optimization of hydraulic barriers to protect the Ebro alluvial. These controls concluded that the plant's soil was suitable for industrial use for which it was intended, not exceeding the absorptive risk indexes; in the land outside the south of the complex currently used as crop soils, the results did not detect any disease; no risks to human health and ecosystems were detected; neither were unacceptable risks identified for the consumption of the usual plants in this agricultural area; in urban supply waters, no risk was assessed, and also contaminant diseases were ruled out in the Ebro River. In spite of this, the company was urged to draft a remedial proposal for the various media and areas affected by the spill, which included the conduct of a counter-sample at least three points located along the alluvial plain where concentrations of the dumped substances had been recorded. All these actions have been carried out as established, and were accompanied by a first monitoring of groundwater quality in July 2013, which continues today. This monitoring of water quality is monitored by URA and is accompanied by inspection visits from the environmental body. And the evaluation of the results is carried out in coordination with the Departments of Agriculture and Environment, the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation and the farmers' communities in the area. In June 2016, at the request of the environmental management directorate of the Department of Environment, and with the participation of the livestock and public health directorates of the Basque Government, the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation, Ihobe and URA, a follow-up meeting was held on the plan of actions for the groundwaters of General Chemistry and its environment. At that meeting, the results of the work carried out so far were presented, the conclusion of which is that the concentrations of pollutants detected have experienced asymptonic reduction, that the (...) is going backwards, and that the biological evolution of the Ebro River is between good and very good. It was also reported that groundwater control, crop control and river biological status control campaigns would continue, as well as the provision of an intermediate barrier in crop fields. In addition, during the development of the dossier, samples and analyses have been taken in the different types of crops present in the area: sunflower, alfalfa, beet and wheat. The studies have been carried out by Neiker at different times, and in all of them the lack of risk to the consumer has been credited, an extreme that has been conveniently supervised by the Department of Agriculture. As you can see, the work done, both in correcting the effects of the spill and preventing new episodes as well as in controlling and protecting Miranda de Ebro's groundwater mass, has been extensive and continuous. In your speech, you have made reference to the situation of nitrate concentration in groundwater at different points in the environment of Vitoria. You refer me to the fact that the southern zone, as it has values below 25 mg/l, has not been considered as an area to be included in this restriction zone, and that there are other areas that, while maintaining concentrations also below 25 mg/l, however, remain within the declaration of vulnerable areas. Of course, what is intended with the declaration of vulnerable areas is that in these areas there are concentrations below those that have historically been produced in groundwater with respect to nitrates. Finally, in a way, it confirms to me, with what you tell me, that the measures being taken are working. It has therefore been achieved that there are lower nitrate concentrations in these areas than they have historically been and that, therefore, the controls and actions of the measures being taken are yielding results. Well, it's better that way, isn't it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u84	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u85	Well, from your explanation, we can deduce that this area is not decontaminated. That's what I understand, and I think that's what you've told us. And we want to know how long these jobs are going to be, what foresight you have, what protocol you are following in this case. And we would also like to know in the follow-up meetings what knowledge the regants in the area have had – I know there is a problem with the regants community – if they let them act according to the project they have to modify the irrigation. It seems that there are limitations to be able to make your new commitment, and therefore I would like to know that. I believe, Mr. Counsellor, what I want to say to you with the data contrast is that when does it cease to be a vulnerable area? If we have not declared the southern area of Miranda with the parameters it has, I tell you that there are areas of Vitoria that should cease to be vulnerable areas, I understand and interpret. So, those are the contrasts that I tell you and that I want you to explain to me. On the other hand, why does the 2018 report not refer to these previously declared areas? I think you should have some reference, and it does not appear in the report. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, I believe that there are things in this area that require that they be clearer and that appear in the reports that your department issues. And, besides, I think it had to be planned, because you, already in 2017, were already working in this area. Therefore, the 2018 report should have data on the start of that area control. So, I don't understand why he doesn't show up. We want to know and we are very interested to know what plan they have to end the decontamination of this area. 2011? 2012? In 2019 we are. What is the plan to end this once and for all? Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u86	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u87	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I must reiterate what I said to you in my first speech. The reason for declaring vulnerable areas in these areas of Miranda de Ebro's alluvial groundwater mass is the filtration of nitrates from agrarian activity. On the other hand, I believe that I have been quite extensive in my first intervention in the measures that have been taken as a result of the accidental dumping by the General Chemical company. I tell you that the 2011 discharge has been thoroughly monitored by the environmental body and that a multitude of measures are being taken to prevent both the presence and dispersion of pollutants in water and soil. By pointing out the latest administrative actions, on 20 June, from the environmental body, the company General Chemica has been asked to carry out semi-annual checks of groundwater, including measurement at the groundwater level, unstable parameters and laboratory determination of the presence of monochlorobenzene, benzothiazole, benzothiazolone and two MDTs. And the company is also told the possibility of a reassessment of the risk analysis, in the event that high values of these pollutants were detected, something that has not occurred to date. This situation continues to be controlled by the department, indeed, and will continue to be controlled in the future. A situation in 2011... A series of remedial measures were taken, which logically carried out the company, which was responsible, accidental but responsible for the discharges. The activities that have been carried out have been permanently monitored by the Department, and future controls in this area continue and will continue to be carried out. And I told you before, but I repeat: given the high technical component of this information, I invite you, if you are interested, to make use of the right to environmental information, because from the environmental body we will put all the necessary means to facilitate such access. I have to confine myself, as an environmental adviser, to the areas of my competence, and you have certainly asked me a clear question: what is the department's purpose for implementing measures to monitor and monitor the evolution of the Miranda groundwater supply sectors and the decontamination of the area affected by industrial discharges, and I believe I have responded to it and am responding extensively and documented in all these respects. And, in the same way, I believe that the actions being carried out by the Directorate of Environmental Administration and the Basque Water Agency have been appropriate to protect the quality of soils and water bodies. At the time there was a spill and, of course, all the necessary measures were exhausted by the environmental administration. I must also say that the company has responded responsibly at all times to the indications and requirements of the department, and, today, I think that the satisfaction of the department is that all the necessary measures have been taken at the time, and there is still, as I said, a check to be absolutely sure that there are no situations that can be assumed in terms of the quality of these soils. And you still have the reference to when it ceases to be a vulnerable area. Well, the purpose of these statements, as you know, is to preserve the quality of groundwater masses. To the extent that there are established limits on the declaration of these vulnerable areas and the adoption of restrictive measures on the use of fertilizers, if the objectives are achieved, it will have to be analysed, but the objectives are achieved in order to maintain them over time, not in order to put aside the work carried out in the achievement of the objectives, and that on the way around the corner we will have to re-declarate those risk areas because the level of fertilizers is not properly used in the use of those lands. That will therefore have to be properly analysed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u88	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Thank you. fourteen points in theme list: "The question is, with you and Martíne together, the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Environmental, Land Planet, and Housing department, about the state of the Eucadian housing." Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u89	Thank you, Mr President. And I asked him the written question about the assessment of housing policy, and, listening this morning, I did not know whether to pay more attention to Pello Urizar, with pathological optimism, or to lehendakari, with that mixture of optimism and reality, which leaves less room for optimism. But Machiavelli also said that "everyone who wants to know what will happen must examine what has happened." Or not? That's a little what we want to know today. We're not doing well with the house. It is one of the main problems of Basque society: rent, according to the Basque Government, of 1,050 euros rent – in Gipuzkoa, 1,260 euros –; youth emancipation in the 30 years, four years later than in the European Union; and 1,200 evictions in 2018, three out of four rents, for abusive and arbitrary increases in already disorbited prices. And Parliament is accompanying, and we have reached agreements with you on many issues; we have reached agreements in evictions, in the housing monograph, in agreements for the development of the law. But we have to say today that these agreements, in many cases, are not being complied with, and in many others they are being delayed, such as that report on the impact of tourist flats on rent prices, or the development of the rental price benchmark, and that in August, Mr Arriola, the deadlines for the decree of subjective law and the decree on uninhabited housing expire, and I do not know if you are planning to take it to the Miramar Palace Governing Council. And this week he has also presented us with two documents: one, the planning of the Housing Act, but there is no planning of the Housing Act; he has told us again about the decrees, but there is no scheduling of the development of the Housing Act. And he has explained to us the competences of the municipalities and the Basque Government, and he has mentioned the Statute of Gernika, the Soil Law, the Housing Law and the Local Regime Basis Law. But, well, we already knew that. But there's nothing new, there's nothing new in that report six months after it had to be here. And then this report, the report on powers and fiscal measures, six months later. And it's a report I read yesterday. 16 pages. He's talking about the Housing Act, he's talking about the Housing Observatory report. It was, it was all written down. And in the end there are three pages that, in large letters and with drawings, explain proposals, very general reflections on options in fiscal policy. And he also has the Finance Advisor next door, who can share it with him. But it has not been very clear to me whether these positions are going to be taken by the PNV and the PSOE to the general meetings, these reflections on what they are going to materialise, what fiscal policy they are going to shed light on. And I say to you: we are very critical, because here are vague reflections on what can be done, what can be stopped, but there is nothing concrete. So, I already say to him: Elkarrekin We can, in the three general boards, support a progressive fiscal policy on housing, if it serves to mobilize uninhabited housing, and if it serves for rent, if it serves to harmonize public rent and social rent. What I am not so clear about is what the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party are going to do at the general meetings with this, and whether they are going to buy the tax reform speech from the People's Party as well. And I think that with this question is what we wanted: your assessment of housing policy, because we believe that the situation is serious, is serious in Euskadi right now. And, well, before we were vanguard in housing policy, and I think we're certainly ensimized, because we can't be waiting, waiting, waiting, waiting, waiting, until it's over. In other places things have been done: Barcelona has, for example, just expropriated the use of a house that was not fulfilling the function of social use of the house, the use for 10 years, to the Caixa; in Paris, the limitation of rental prices per neighborhood has just entered into force; in Berlin, the left-wing tripartite will also limit rent increases. They are examples of things that can be done. They are examples of people who are betting on public housing in a much faster and more efficient way than the Basque Government. And I invite you to do so too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u90	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez, you give the impression that you intended to declare Euskadi in a state of housing emergency. We all know firsthand what needs exist, but I don't think what you describe is the real state of the housing situation in Euskadi. He asks me for an assessment of the housing situation. I believe that we have problems, important problems, and that the housing situation in Euskadi is clearly improveable; but I also tell you that, compared to the whole of Spain and with each of its autonomous communities, our position and our housing policies stand out positively. And you have no doubt that, based on the knowledge of reality, we are working and we will implement new actions to improve the housing situation in Euskadi in the coming years. But I say to him: comparisons can be odious, but they also illustrate, and they say that, if the housing situation in Spain as a whole is not good, in Euskadi it is somewhat less bad. It is not a consolation; it is simply a finding. And behind some data there is an effort and there are also comprehensive policies to address the housing problem as a whole. For example, the percentage of evictions in Euskadi is 1.7% since 2013 on the whole of Spain, and we are 4.7% of the population. The index of housing prices published by the INE, compared to 122.8 points of the state average starting from 100 in 2015, Euskadi is at 117.5. A few years ago, we had the dubious honor of heading the ranking. Many of the family units in Etxebide requesting rental housing, more than 41,000 families last year, receive support from the Administration, either supplementary housing benefit, economic housing benefit or AES, to pay part of the price of their free rent. This means that 46% of all private rentals have some form of public support for the rental payment, and if we take into account the public rental park and the regulated private park, more than 60% of the families living in Euskadi in a rented house have either a social rental, or public aid to pay the rental price. In addition, to date, 4,963 Basque households have already recognized the subjective right to housing. Last year, according to the Ministry of Development, we were the second community with more protected housing started and finished, after Madrid; and, as far as rented housing is concerned, 66% of all housing completed in Spain in 2018, two out of every three, were Basque housing. Our public rental park already reaches 13,894 homes, including 5,700 apartments captured by private owners in the Bizigune program. The protected housing park comprises 68,238 housing units, of which 46.092 are permanently rated. We have launched the new Gaztelagun programme, and by the end of the year we will have the administrative procedure to address the declaration of uninhabited housing and mobilize the 20,800 summer floors that are today empty. You know the tax proposal that we have sent to this House to try to intervene in the rental housing market, tempering rental prices. In short, the problem of housing is serious, and there is a lot of work to do, but you will recognize that something we are doing. Having said that, Mr Martínez, look for, compare and, if you find something better, propose it. For example, with regard to budgets, your group, if so aware, could propose and commit to budgets by introducing measures to improve access...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u92	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Unai Uruzuno Goldst Group, made to Ogas and the head physician of economics, about 2020 dollars." Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u93	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mr. Subalzu. We've come from a long phone cycle, and I think we all know the photograph that the election results have left. Yes, EAE, yes, in Navarro, and the stage in the state seems to be for a big chat, but it's not my idea today. The question is, if anything characterizes this stage, we may say that in a great degree uncertainty is characteristic of it. The result is, as I have said, that we are already known here in Navarro, and in the State, after political differences, and I do not know whether we are here, or, sooner than ever, in June, talking about budgets. And this chiefly excites two thoughts. One is that the budgets, taken isolatedly, are not capable of a relegant. We have a few popular challenges here. This morning, Comrade Troubleton, the President asked the President about one of these questions, even though he wasn't answered by any of them. We have a few popular challenges, and, to face these popular challenges, authority is necessary, stability is necessary, and, in order to secure this administration, budgets are necessary in order to make the right public policy. We don't make any sense at all about that. But even in his own case they are not so sure of it. We must speak more: we must speak of the hands we have not. Today we know that we can't even regulate scholarships, in this country of the world's highest auto-grongery we can't even regulate the scholarships. Then we should talk about the hands. We must speak of passive employment policy; we must speak of a proper political policy. And we understand the budget in that logic. The EH Collect will see the budget in that logic, and the budget for the next 2020 will also be touched by that logic. But since we have been speaking of the following matters, we have heard for the last few days, e.g. But he already makes such expressions in June, when we have not yet known the budget, when we have only a few correctly-only four generalities at the moment when the Finn Council has not yet been collected, when you don't know what you've got, and Mr. Erkoa is talking about boikota, the bocotic of opposition. In June, he's talking about boco. If he's talking about boiko in June, keeping that resolution, what'll you get in December? There's no words to be spoken; you'll be speechless. Or is the election going to progress the word abdicate? We are troubled with the words of the Ercoi, and the words of the Orcians are spoken of. But bragging is no help to open a process like that. Then we just want to ask you that. You, your department, how's this trial going? Are you going to leave these attitudes aside and prepare for an honest, modest process? If so, the Basque People will be so, and we will treat them with respect and tranquillity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u94	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. You're welcome to answer, thank you, Mr. Subazket, he's got his word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u95	President. Mr. Uruzuno, you know very well that I am not the author of a political context, or at least that I am not the only one. And I'm Chief of the Ogal and Economics Department, and I have to do my best to take the budget in any context, and that's my behavior, the way I've done for the past three years. To say this, and as you have mentioned, the Government must necessarily begin and continue to accept the annual budget. We've started it. The laws ask him so, and that's just what he's done a couple of weeks ago: and this is just the time when he will tell you of the meeting with your party, as the first contact, but also of what will and conditions are to be proved. That's our plan. I'm not so stupid as to believe that the political context has nothing to do with the consent of budgets or of any law. But it's enough for me to get an attractive economic and presupuestary context and try to get an arrangement around it. Besides, even if it's the responsibility of the government, it's the work of all of us who are responsible for a budget. We form a political context between all of them: Governments, as well as political groups; you, all parliamentary individuals, your own team, are the authors of the political context. This government clearly finds itself in a minority, and requires a group of people to continue their budgets. That's why we'll do everything that's in our power to get a deal like the years they've gone, and you know better than anyone, Mr. Urruzuno, that's how it is. I really want it, the government wants a positive political context, that's what we're working for, I'm working. If you have the same intention, the agreement would be possible, and good for society and the Basque people. If that's the point of everybody, let's make the deal easy. If you're ready, then my answer will be easy, but if you're not, it won't be easy with you at least. My exclusive responsibility in the budget area is to be able to design budgets that focus on the development of public policies contained in our government program. The political context is built between everyone here, as this government is in a parliamentary minority and we need – as it also said in Basque – the support of some opposition groups. Allow me, in this sense, to return the question to you in some way, but with a certain variation. Mr Urruzuno, do you consider that the political context must frame the adoption of appropriate budgets for Euskadi? We're ready to try, and we'll do it. Is your real will to come to a Basque deal? If that's the case, the deal will be possible. If you run away, it won't be possible. The political frame? Everyone will read their own book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u96	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The sixteenth theme in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Mr. Carmelo Barrio Barkio Barroja, member of the Popula team, about the high school system of Esska University. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u97	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. Counsellors, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In a recent journalistic report, a study was mentioned. We already knew it, because it was incorporated, in some way, in the 2019-2022 University Plan. Certain issues were stated. I put them back on the table because of their gravity or, at least, the risk to the future of our university system. I think the information was timely, because I re-emphasized it. We are at the end of the course, and it is good that the Government confirms its plans for that immediate future. There is an analysis of these weaknesses or the situation that may arise at risk. We are talking about an essential element, the future for our society, together with the rest of the education system and education, vocational training, because we are talking about essential issues. And, moreover, it coincides with that this same year saw the light of the Plan of the University System 2019-2022, and there, weaknesses and threats are noted in their analysis. But the study to which the journalistic information referred emphasized – let us recall this – the limited supply of dual and joint degrees; the increase in dropout rates; the limited percentage of credits in non-official languages; the limited percentage of international students in master's studies; and, in addition, other issues related to the ageing of teachers; the low international projection of research in certain areas; the demographic evolution, which will entail less demand; and some other issues that we saw. That is to say, there is the situation, and indeed it is true that, given this reminder of how we are, since we are at the end of the university course and, in that sense, we will have to see where we have to move forward, we ask what action the Basque Government will take to overcome these important shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u98	Eskerrik asko, Yellow Quarter. To answer, Mrs. Greart has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u99	Good day, Mr. President of the legislature, chiefs, members of the legislature. Mr Barrio, in answer to your questions, on the 12th of March 2019, 2019-20 University System Plan was approved, with the sum of 1.411 million Euro, over $124 million more than the EVIAL; A plan that addresses five key development axes to move towards strengthening the Basque university system and excellence. Two objectives that materialize through actions that respond to different natures.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u100	Eskerrik asko, Uriarte andrea. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u101	Gracias, president. Well, counselor, I suppose the answer to the question will have been reserved for the second round, because, logically, what you have told me and nothing, then, is the same, because you have told me about a quantification that we all know. But I asked him about the problems, about the weaknesses, about the threats that society knows and has seen reflected once again in the media through the studies to which we have referred. And how are they going to address themselves in this short term? And what measures are you going to take? Indeed, I would have to ask him, too, surely. You tell me about the 124 million; they are clearly insufficient, so we are seeing. They are clearly insufficient. I'll tell you why. I will tell you why they are clearly insufficient, and, moreover, I will go into the debate that the President, Mr Alonso, has had before; also some other spokesman; Mrs Larion with the Lehendakari and the Economic Development Adviser. And I'm telling you about innovation. In other words, on the subject of innovation, it is clear that the university itself is weak in relation to the Basque Network of Science, Technology and Innovation. In other words, it is clearly better in terms of innovation. And look: when we talked about this issue, we meant that innovation is essential and that we are going backwards, also the university. The university is part of this set with companies, with development, with political initiative. It is recalled that, with regard to the research funds of the Basque Government, 50 million of the 150 that were budgeted were completed. I mean, that's insufficient that amount, that innovation linked to the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u102	Eskerrik asko, Yellow Quarter. To answer, Mrs. Greart has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u103	Mr. Barrio, I am surprised that you allude to the aforementioned study when it, as well as the shortcomings and strengths, are part of the background and diagnosis of the plan itself – pages 5-21 – that we have elaborated ourselves. In the Plan of the Basque University System, the previous university plan, the situation of university education and the different elements of the environment that will influence its development, whose analysis is vital to know the position of the Basque university system, have been evaluated. This analysis has given the opportunity to determine its wants, and to define the major actions to be developed and carried forward in the next years. So what I'm trying to explain is that in order to get over the privations that have been found connected with the EukMOG and to increase the income of the school and to increase the offer of double-tracts. Of course, this plan is agreed with the partnership of the three college systems that make up the MUFI and planned to require a major-level planning plan in the 'TAU's, not just in the EuskMY, but in the university. In relation to the aging of teachers – to quote some of the shortcomings – it is a clear situation in which actions are being taken to alleviate it. These actions are aligned with the needs and priorities of the country. Different actions are proposed with each university and its corresponding financial endowment; among them, increase the number of teaching and research staff (PDI) accredited to the "Teaching" programme, increase the participation of teachers in training and innovation programmes that respond in a step-by-step way to the different stages of the PDI academic career, development and improvement of learning processes and models, exploration of new areas in degree and postgraduate, training for professionals and development of new degrees. As for the dropout rate, on the training axis and innovative teaching methodologies, with essential elements that are entirely present in the strategic agenda of the universities, a final goal for the dropout rate is identified, which should, for example, go from 16.2% to 15%. Due to double rates, it's one of the initiatives received in the "UPV-EHU" program contract to cooperate with the University of their Negregation, in the actions of mobiles, co-tuctors, and double-tilations, and another is dispersing the new international headlines. A whole battery of action, therefore, considering that they are already taken up and reflected in the plan, which is both public and known in March since it was approved. That is to say, we make a preliminary analysis, we detect shortcomings and strengths, and we establish a four-year university plan, which many would like, with a 9.6% increase in funding. And, in any case, it should be remembered that funding to support the improvement of our universities must always be done with respect for university autonomy. Not in vain, this need to promote innovative actions occurs in a context in which it is the universities themselves that must respond to the new social demands.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u104	Eskerrik asko, Uriarte andrea. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Internation, the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Basque Group, the head physician of the Medical Department, a taxer taken from his children." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u105	Good morning, chiefs of departments, congressmen. Thank you, Mr. President, first. The proposal or topic which this group has brought to the legislature today is not new. Multiple Times During two or two periods, we discussed more especially in the previous law at the Medical Committee in six months, and so made our first agreement. And the first agreement was made unanimously, as I say, at the Medical Committee. This government didn't do it, and we thought it best to take it back to the committee. Well, though four years after the last discussion, we may say that there have been improvements, but, according to the necessity of associations and collective persons, many things have not yet been conducted, and therefore we thought it proper to bring this proposition back and ask about it, in this case, the chief physician of health, Mrs. Murga. Acquired brain damage is caused by an injury to the brain, of a non-degenerative or congenital nature, which occurs, as we all know, as a result of an external or internal force. There is, therefore, an alteration in the brain, which is concrete in an invisible disability, but which causes brain injuries. There are sequelae, physical, cognitive, emotional, sensory, behavioral disabilities, where these people's communication skills are clearly affected; issues that, as no one escapes us, have an impact on the day-to-day lives of these people. When we are talking about child-acquired brain damage, we are talking, above all, about processes, situations that affect children; that these children, when they have an episode of these characteristics, go through intensive care units, pediatric ICUs. And, today, Osakidetza provides outpatient hospital rehabilitation, and, as I said, in many cases end up in child psychiatry units. These processes are complex, complex rehabilitation processes, where deficiencies still persist in the different health systems and, in particular, in Osakidetza, especially in the care of children who suffer acquired brain damage and who are under 16 years of age. Besides, each case is different. We had the opportunity to know this and these demands and demands and this concrete affirmation in the appearance that was supported by the association that includes the affected parents, the Hiru Hamabi association, which, in addition, I want to take advantage of to recognize the excellent work they do. Therefore, it is very important in these children "We are talking about this child-acquired brain damage, this injury to the brain occurs at an early age in a person," and therefore no one can escape that cognitive neurorehabilitation in the early years is of special importance and that it is also very important the interaction of the multidisciplinary team, with different professionals – physiotherapists, doctors, speech therapists, psychologists – who, coordinated among them, act in these children at an early moment. We proposed an initiative, a non-law proposal, as I was saying, that we had to reproduce at six months because we saw that it had not been fulfilled. The first was on July 7, 2015, where we urged the Department of Health to set up a working team to develop a diagnosis of the situation of these children, and to have the contributions of the associations in this study. And then, later, we also urged the Department of Health, within four months, to draw up a work plan, action plan, aimed at this group, and to take into account the health and socio-health needs, with the aim of providing that comprehensive rehabilitation care that it needs. Seeing that this mandate was not fulfilled, a few months later, on 15 March 2016, we again presented the initiative, and, in that case, we urged the Basque Government, since we understood and had information that there were already talks, to bring the diagnosis and the action plan within two months. We have to say that something has been done. We are not going to say that after two parliamentary mandates nothing has been done at all. But we do have to say that the response that has been given by the Government, in the opinion of the association and the affected groups, is not entirely satisfactory, according to the demands and needs that were put at that time at the multiple meetings on the table. A multidisciplinary group was formed to analyse the care situation of the affected children, but, according to the transfer of the affected groups, the contributions of the associations were not taken very much into account and, in this regard, they point out that it was not a consensus document. When a review is made of this diagnosis of the resources involved in each phase – the acute, subacute and chronic phase – it is also noted that, despite the recognition that there are resources, it is concluded that no one affected has gone through the services of logopeda, clinical psychology and social worker. We therefore believe that the Government's actions in this area have been involved in some self-congratulation in relation to the express mandates held by this House. On the other hand, indeed, motorcycle rehabilitation can be covered, but not the logopeda or occupational therapy, which is very important to work all that has to do with cognitive, behavioral, language rehabilitation, where the brain, as I have described, is the main damaged organ. In adults there is a clear protocolization and multidisciplinary care programs, and in the report or plan drawn up by the Basque Government, it is concluded – families have continued to transfer it to us – that families have to seek resources, such as logopedas, psychologists, occupational therapists. And, in the case of child-acquired brain damage, this multidisciplinary care and protocolization is not guaranteed, which seems to be somehow designed when it comes to caring for adults. It is also noted that this plan does not detail specific programmes or specific action plans or budget allocations. We have therefore considered it appropriate, Madam Counsellor, to carry out this inquiry and, seeing that a few years have passed since the debates that have taken place in this House and that there are still deficits in the care that children who have acquired child brain damage need or require, and since the work seems to be that they have not been entirely satisfactory to the affected groups, if you intend to remedy those deficits, if you intend to take more action, in relation to providing, as I said, that comprehensive care by a multidisciplinary team that goes, above all, to the rehabilitation of these children and, above all, to an early age, which is where there is more chance of recovery. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u106	Eskerrik asko, Garrido andrea. I'm sure it's yours, Mrs. Murga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u107	Mr. President, members of the legislature, head of the department, Mrs Garrido, good noon. Children with acquired brain damage suffer the consequences of a brain injury, as Mrs. Garrido mentioned. This injury has been caused by an accident or a non-degenerative or congenital disease, which leaves them with permanent sequelae. Mrs. Garrido, as you have rightly pointed out, these children affected by acquired brain damage may have physical, motor or sensory deficits, or sequelae that affect oral expression or understanding. On other occasions, or simultaneously, they present behavioural or emotional alterations. As a result, they may present a decrease in autonomy to carry out activities that would be customary for their age. In the most serious cases, it may even affect daily tasks or self-care, which entails special needs. But, even on other occasions, these sequelae are not so easy to detect, evaluate or quantify, although they are perceived by the people with whom they live. We understand the serious consequences of acquired brain damage not only in the family environment, but also in the social and educational sphere. We also understand the effort and responsibility involved in treating these children in any of these areas, and how difficult it can be to assume that such a situation can be permanent and, in many cases, irreversible. In Osakidetza – I can assure you – we strive to offer them comprehensive care, as complete and adapted as possible to their health needs – best, like any care process, but with multiple professionals –, comprehensive and quality, and where child neurology and rehabilitation are the basis. Everything's better. But I can assure you, Mrs Garrido, that the attention we give to these boys and girls is a source of continuous reflection, because our goal every day is to improve and move forward. We understand that his interpellation shares this end. This object of continuous improvement of Osakidetza we all share: you, the department, the set of professionals, the families. We all strive to improve the quality of life for children with acquired brain damage. I turn to detail aspects of the care we offer to these children and also to the people with whom they live. On May 24, 2016, as mentioned above, the Department of Health referred to this House the "Action Plan for Comprehensive Care for Paediatric Patients Affected by Acquired Brain Damage. Need for a multidisciplinary approach." As the name indicates, it was committed to continuous and homogeneous care in the whole of the care network, but also in collaboration with the social and educational sphere. Why is it especially necessary that the attention we can give to you be coordinated with the social and educational sphere? Because we must not forget that this childish harm is not a disease, but a consequence. Its impact on the needs of the child and its incorporation into everyday activities is what we need to improve. And fortunately, to alleviate this situation, in Euskadi we have a great experience in educational socio-health collaboration. It should be noted that this plan was developed by a working group to address and analyse the situation at that time, identify areas for improvement and establish common lines of action. In the context of the preparation of this document, meetings were held with the affected associations and the families of these children to gather their suggestions. This communication has been maintained throughout this time. The action plan drawn up is why we have been guided so far and whose steps we want to follow. This action plan established the need to interact in a coordinated way from the health, social and educational fields, and today we continue to consider this coordination as a key aspect to ensure comprehensive care for each child with this type of special needs. I must insist that this model of intervention with the three systems involved – health, social and educational – is the model of care for all children who have special needs in our community; it is consistent and, at the same time, admired and followed by other communities. Our model works on how to respond to the needs of each case, beyond the acute health phase, and to the coordination of clinical services involved in avoiding etiology, the underlying disease of these processes. We're working on reducing the pathologies that cause this brain damage. The goal of the care network is to prevent sequelae, to rehabilitate brain anoxia, to improve the treatment of brain tumors, to prevent infections such as meningitis or encephalitis, to prevent and treat stroke and to care for head trauma, among other acute health processes that leave the acquired brain damage as a consequence. Currently, in the clinical field of the Osakidetza reference hospitals, where patients who may be affected by such sequelae are followed, multiple services are involved, mainly pediatric neurology and child rehabilitation. In fact, at this time we are also working to know the specific support needs for clinical psychology that could benefit our minors and their closest beings in those situations of serious diseases, but always taking into account that we have children's psychiatry teams and a mental health network with professionals and knowledge to carry it out. Another line of work, with less visibility but not less important, is to identify the cases in the clinical history, in the history we share the entire health system. This is a recommendation of the 2016 working group, from which the diagnostic print is added and allows us, in this way, to assign a code CIE-10 to code specifically. This allows us to export data through corporate information analysis systems that are useful for patients, also for managers and for all professionals, because it allows us to track cases and also plan their needs. And those are substantial and objective improvements that have been achieved thanks to this 2016 plan. On the other hand, as is also known, the Spanish Society of Neuropediatria has held consensus meetings to discuss the issue of pediatric stroke, and professionals from Osakidetza have participated in it, in particular from the university hospitals of Donostia and Cruces. In fact, these OSI, together with others, have developed specific internal protocols for the activation of this code, since the consensus group of the Spanish Society of Neuropediatria itself agreed that it is each center, each health organization that must protocol its code to respond more adequately to the specific needs of each geographical area and take into account reference centers. I have mentioned and wish to stress the importance of inter-institutional coordination, both in the health, social and educational fields. Important steps have been taken in recent times in order to extend, expand and homogenize these actions. In this regard, it is worth highlighting the strategic lines of social and health care for Euskadi, which include these children with special needs as target groups identified for the development of this type of care. And so it is defined in Decree 13/2016. I have shown some steps that we have taken forward, improvements, but above all the interest of the Department of Health and Osakidetza in continuing to offer comprehensive and coordinated care to the children who suffer this acquired brain damage in Euskadi. We continue to work consciously that there are things achieved, but also that we must recognize where we are, strengthen it and move forward. And we'll join all those who call us to work in the neighborhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Thank you. Next, Mrs Garrido has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Counselor, for the explanations. This group brought these initiatives for debate in this House, back in 2015, and the attendance of the collectives who bring together the parents of these affected children is also supported here. And we all know that this is an important impact on families, who, from night to morning, obviously see their lives change. And they moved us that, at first, the children who have or are diagnosed with acquired brain damage had an initial covered phase, the hospital phase, but then, when these families went home with their children, they did not have a covered care. And, above all, given the serious injuries to the brain, there were specific issues related to rehabilitation that had to be financed on their own and that were not covered by the public health system. Therefore, we considered it advisable to bring in, as I say, two initiatives – two initiatives had to be presented – and the mandate was very clear: a diagnostic study. But here they do move us, counselor, or they moved us already in their moment. – because, obviously, this takes time on the table – they did not take into account the specific contributions made by the collectives, and, in that sense, they do not agree with that diagnostic study that was carried out at the time. And, with regard to the action plan for the comprehensive paediatric care of children affected by ACD, it is clear that we are dealing with complex cases. Moreover, each case is different, as the association itself made very clear to us, with serious consequences. One step forward is homogenous care – it is clear that it is a step forward – and collaboration between the social and educational spheres; above all, the impact this injury has on the brain in these specific areas, as well as coordinated action between social, health and educational areas or areas. But families continue to move us that, to this day, there are still issues that are fundamental to them in this process of rehabilitation and support that these children need and that are not covered, and resources for speech, psychology and the whole occupational issue are not given. We therefore believe that there is still a deficit there and therefore we have considered bringing this issue back to this House. We recognize the progress, but we still believe that this progress is insufficient to provide the comprehensive care needed by these children, comprehensive and multidisciplinary care, where different professionals and different areas are also affected. They told us that there were no programmes either; in that action plan, they were missing concrete programmes of multidisciplinary care, and therefore we see that this is another of the deficits. That's why I think it's important. And above all, seeing also that you have a document you have mentioned, which are the strategic lines in social and health care for the coming years, and where also in a section specifically mentions these children who have acquired child brain damage, so that it serves to give an already definitive impulse to the deficiencies that still present the attention to these children in some issues in our Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. I think it's a time for reflection. And you seem to have started to do something; for you continue to do things, and, of course, to provide that care that affected families and children need in our Autonomous Community. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u110	Eskerrik asko, Garrido andrea. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u111	President, members of the legislature, chief of the department, Mrs Garrido. With the families of children suffering from acquired brain damage we have shared meetings and other communication spaces since 2015, and we continue to want to continue to have a permanent way of contact, as we believe that we have reaped the fruits of this joint work. I would like to point out again that we place special emphasis on coordination and interinstitutional work in the health, social and educational fields, which must be complemented; not everything depends on the health system. As I have already pointed out, the mechanism for coordination of care is regulated by Decree 13/2016 of Integral Intervention in Early Care in Euskadi. In this sense, I would like to highlight that it establishes as a framework for action the construction of the social and health educational space, in which, through the assessment teams in early care, known as EVAT, there is a joint analysis by the agents of these fields, which is individualized and adjusted to each case. And from there, specific referrals and intervention plans are derived, according to needs; joint plans established for health, social and educational needs, simultaneously, coordinated and stable, and adjusted to a criterion of continuity and care integration. There are EVATs in the three historical territories. In this way, cases of acquired child brain damage that have sequelae or handicap will be dependent on this evaluation and joint intervention carried out by the EVAT. These assessments can be requested by the family itself. In addition to these EVAT devices, I would like to stress that there is also at institutional level, between the departments of the Basque Government, a Joint Commission on Education and Health, to which come those situations to share and manage in a joint and specific way aspects of the brain damage acquired by children. But if there were any problems or related cases, it would become individualized in this commission, and the assessments of the professionals leading these boys and girls would also be taken into account. Finally, I would like to point out that, in the short term, it is planned that this working team, created in Osakidetza, will meet again in order to continue to facilitate communication and coordination channels, and of course we will take into account patient and family associations, which, in the end, help to offer comprehensive and integrated care and to know their needs. In our opinion, once the concrete improvements that the Basque public health system has implemented since the beginning of this group have been realized, this is the framework in which to continue to advance in the exchange of experiences, documentation, needs, possibilities of action, etc., and thus to be able to contribute with the different professional teams specific and coordinated health care, but also social and educational, which are also clearly involved in deciding actions and ways that reach the patients, as we believe should be the model of care for these patients. We think that's the way we're going to follow him. We are prepared to improve, even to work with professionals, associations, and other communities. Our commitment is to continue helping those kids, including their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u112	Eskerrik asko, Murga andrea. The 18th point in the subject list: "Ask me, Juan Uria Serano, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the head physician of the Medical Department, a financial hearing to Asunción of the Tolstal Department." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u113	Eba Blanco andrea, Counsellor, Counsellor, Parliamentary Colleagues and Compañeras. I was looking at the other day, investigating the topic of the only OSI, the only comprehensive health management of Osakidetza that is mixed, which is that of Tolosaladea, whose Clinic of the Assumption deals with hospitalization and specialized care, and to which the health centers of Tolosaldea derive patients who need it. And I was looking for some elements, some criteria before the election campaigns to have more argumentation, to try to discuss these issues soon, and I found nothing. I didn't find results accounts, I didn't find any memoirs, I didn't find any benefits, I didn't find the entire financial location of the clinic and its owner company, which is Inviza, and then I said, "Well, as it was done with the link with Onkologiko, which is to put forward an audit, the Department of Health will have intended to do an audit. And ask him, just in case, Juan Luis." And so I ask: has the Department of Health made or intended to make an audit of the financial situation of the Assumption Clinic?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u114	Thank you, Mr. Uria. All right, thanks. Mrs. Murga's got her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u115	Mr. President, head of the department, members of the legislature, Mr. Uria, good noon again. I begin by answering your question directly, Mr Uria: the Health Department is not competent to carry out any kind of financial audit, either to public organizations or, of course, to private entities. Having said that, I will add that, however, the Department of Health of course exercises control over the Clinic of the Assumption, in this case through the Territorial Delegation of Gipuzkoa and based on the concert signed with Inviza SA for the provision of the specialized care service for patients of the OSI Tolosaldea of the health area of Gipuzkoa. In paragraph 9 of this concert, on quality assessment and monitoring, and in particular point 9.3, it states: "An economic assessment of the centre shall be carried out annually with the end of the financial year on the basis of the following reports provided by the company: report on the annual statement of the accounts of the centre, the results account and the financial memory of the financial year, which shall include, inter alia, its economic development, the causes of the variations between financial years, as well as any aspects deemed necessary for the better understanding of its financial and financial situation". In the same point 9.3, it is added that "it shall be delivered to the Territorial Delegation before the end of the first half of the following financial year, and in it there shall be an independent professional audit report, by an external undertaking, indicating the economic situation of the Centre". Mr Uria, the annual accounts are mandatory for all companies, and both they and the audit report must be deposited in the Trade Register and therefore at the disposal of those who consider it appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u116	Eskerrik asko, Murga andrea. After that, Mr. Uria has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u117	Eba Blanco andrea, compañeros and compañeras. We know the agreement, we know the contract-program in which the Clinic of the Assumption enters, as it is corresponding in all OSI of Osakidetza, but we have not found any data, nor on the website of the Department of Health, in the Commercial Registry we must buy them, neither in the Department nor in the Territorial Delegation of Gipuzkoa. No economic data. Very briefly, these are three issues that concern us; if not, I would never have asked you this question. During this period of time – more than 10 years of conflict – as is known, public-private collaboration in social policies has problems of transparency, has problems of job insecurity, has problems that the public system always loses. But, during this time, we do not know the existence of any audit, either private or public; we do not know the financial situation of the clinic, its debts or its profits. However, it is a fact that expands year after year at the Clínica de la Asunción and its owner Inviza. It has opened four centres: the Bidasoa Medical Center in Irun; the Ordizia Medical Center in Ordizia; the Andoain Clinic in Andoain; and the Belate Clinic in Toulouse. In these centers, you go to the website and say that they cover the whole range of private insurances, as well as the deepening and extension of the work, with a wide network of work mutuals and private insurances, in addition to belonging to Unespa, for the care of patients derived from traffic accidents. And it puts the entire grill of specialists at the Assumption Clinic at the disposal of the entire range of private insurances. And we wonder: the facilities that Osakidetza pays by agreement, the salaries of the specialists who partly pay Osakidetza, the Department of Health, by agreement, the equipment that Osakidetza pays by agreement, are they used for these things? For public-private care, but more private than public, just in case? The second question is that they are an engineering of companies, four companies: Geusa, Asociación Médica Tolosa, Inviza, among others, who have a financial engineering for doctoral thesis, where profits and losses are distributed, with the aim of Inviza not fulfilling its obligations to Finance, Social Security and Fogasa, which already broke in 1994. And I say, if our counselor wants to make the Assumption Clinic public, let her do an audit first; don't find a dead man.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u118	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Your time is up. Thank you. Next, to answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u119	Mr. Uria. In addition to my previous reply, I will tell you that the Gipuzkoa Territorial Delegation reviews the invoices issued by the Clinic in detail on a monthly basis, both in terms of prices and activity. Also, in what he has pointed out from mutuals, the work performed by the Clinic of the Assumption with mutuals workers, insurance, Unespa, is the same as that carried out by any hospital in Osakidetza; that is, as a reference center that is in its area, works with these entities, as do the other hospitals in Osakidetza. In addition, the programme contract, which he also mentioned, identifies key services and quality conditions, which are also similar to other integrated organizations. In the case of Tolosaldea, the joint results with the Assumption Clinic are evaluated. In fact, the 2018 quality results of OSI Tolosaldea have been satisfactory and in line with those obtained by the rest of OSI. The Territorial Delegation of Gipuzkoa has received the accounts for the previous year. I asked myself. So, Mr. Uriya, the Health Department has no ability to make a economic auditory. But, like other services or corporations, he conducts a strict course, and the inhabitants of the Tolsos show themselves satisfied with the service they receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u120	Eskerrik asko, Murga andrea. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interpology, Edurne Garcíagarmbbee Together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief of Work and Justice, the strike and the pay-maker in the feminized sectors." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u121	Good noon, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Mrs San José, Basque workers earn on average 24% more per month than women workers as annual average earnings. A Basque man earns 31,000 euros compared to almost 24,000 of a woman, which is 7,500 euros less per year, i.e. 24.4 per cent. This is reaffirmed by the recent report prepared at the initiative of his own Government. However, what does not detail the report prepared by Professor De la Rica is what is the wage gap that exists in the subcontracting of Basque public administrations, whether they are municipalities, parliaments, or in public contracts that depend on the Basque Government itself. Casualty or not, nor in previous reports and in the framework of the strategy and operational plan of action to reduce the wage gap in Euskadi, the Government reflects nothing in this regard. We know that the wage gap is, on most occasions, due to the fact that women work in the worst paid sectors and less hours, because they have the most partial contracts. In fact, one in four Basque working women, 25%, has a part-time job, a percentage which falls to 7% for men. That is, partiality is highly feminine and not always voluntary, and this directly affects wage differences. Women occupy less economically valued categories of work and, on the other hand, lower working hours, as women have higher rates of partiality and temporaryity in their employment contracts. From Elkarrekin Podemos we have been presenting concrete proposals from the beginning of this parliamentary term to eliminate the wage gap, measures that have the support of both the unions and the feminist movement as well as the social actors. However, the strategy presented by the Government does not contain a single clear action to resolve the problem of the wage gap at home and in the area of responsibility for the outsourcing of Basque public administrations, in areas which fall within its entire competence. At the very least, it is symptomatic that you are very much given to draw up plans and strategies, but you also have an amazing ease not to apply them and not to comply with them. We do not ask for an intervention that would make the situation of women workers worse, violating their fundamental rights, as is happening right now, but for an intervention, yours and that of your department, Mrs San José, to give feminist perspectives and respect for all the trade unions and workers, of which they so much boast. It is called preaching by example. As you are well aware, Mrs San José, there are many labour disputes in Euskadi which have to do with the subcontracting of administrations and with feminized jobs, in addition to some focused on opposing the wage gap, and we do not see that your department is involved in trying to put solutions to them; for example, the outsourcing of the catering and cleaning services of Urduliz hospital or the sectoral home help agreement of Bizkaia, where they have precarious conditions, and both the service providers' employers and the municipalities holding them are stuck in immobilism. And they're just two of the examples you have regarding the pay gap, but you know there's a long list. We also have the 5,000 workers of the residences and day centers in Gipuzkoa, who, for the time being, have held 70 strike days between 2018 and 2019. And, despite the opposition of the various public administrations, agreements are reached in the field of administration, but it must be recognized that they do not because there is a proactive position of their Government or of their department; quite the contrary: progress is being made in reducing the wage gap, not because you are in favour of resolving this type of conflict, but because of the will of the workers and the determination of the unions that support them. In all these conflicts we wonder what kind of intervention your department has had to solve them, what role it has played in mediation or something similar, and, in the case of services subcontracted by the administrations, if you do something, have done something or are going to do something to ensure that there are decent working conditions. On the contrary, what we are seeing and what we see in recent months is that the Basque Government and its department have imposed clearly abusive minimum services, and an extension of these minimum services because of the lengthening of strikes, as a way of weakening them, as is the case with the residences of Gipuzkoa, when they did it previously on the strike of the residences of Bizkaia and many others, and even the determination of extraordinary minimum services of general cleaning in strikes, such as the cleaning of police stations and courts of Gipuzkoa or the case of the City of Elorrio. But the minimum services of other strikes in other sectors have also been reported as abusive by the unions, starting with the strike of 8 March 2018, where the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country forced them to reduce them, because they affected the exercise of the fundamental right to strike, specifically to geriatric workers who provide direct care in residences. Very graphic the behavior of your department. We are therefore faced with a general policy of his department and of this Government to issue abusive minimum services in services that are only essential when women fight against precariousness and to end the wage gap. We wonder why, because the main explanation we find is that its objective is to limit women's right to strike. It is intended that women workers in these sectors will not be able to strike, of course. And when it comes to fixing the minimum services, you give them extraordinary importance to the care and cleaning work, making it clear that they are essential and indispensable work. Of course it is work that must be done yes or yes, which cannot be left for the next day. However, if these works are so important, why not put them in value as they deserve? Why don't you take steps to enable these women to work in decent conditions? If these services are essential to the community, why do women working in them do so in precariousness? It is no coincidence that the highest minimum services are established in the most feminized and precarious sectors, not to mention the dramatic situation of establishing almost as high minimum services as the performance ratios set out in the specifications. We are talking about essential services to the community, and that is why we can limit the strike. But, however, in the bidding of services we adjust them to express the work of women to the maximum. His Government and his department only remembered the quality of these services when the women who offered them went on strike to improve their working conditions, when they decided to tackle the wage gap that their department said it wanted to eliminate. In short, Mrs San José, the Basque Government and its department, on the one hand, publish reports and plans regarding the wage gap or show their apparent concern about this social problem; but, on the other hand, they are the same institutional leaders who, with their policy of subcontracting public services, with their policy of positioning themselves against the strikes that take place to face these injustices, perpetuate the wage gap between women and men. And all this with you, as a Counsellor of Labour and Justice, and we understand that you have a maximum responsibility in this matter. These women who are being exploited in public services outsourced by their Government and even by their department, who do not reach a decent minimum wage, do not deserve the treatment they receive from their Government and department. We strongly reject the actions of the various local, outlying and autonomous administrations and governments, aimed at curtailing and violating the exercise of the right to strike of these workers, and we also reject the possibility of issuing minimum service orders that seek to punish and that seek to weaken those who oppose subcontracting policies and their effects on the wage gap, who oppose something unfair. It may seem, in the light of all this, that the Basque Government and its Department of Labour and Justice are working hard to make the exploitation of women invisible and to support companies subcontracted by Basque public administrations. And I say that it may seem, Mrs San José, only for the exercise of giving you the opportunity to prove with facts, not words, that this is not so. So you'll say, and we'll see if you do, Mrs. San José. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u122	Eskerrik asko, García andrea. I'm sure it's your word, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u123	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Jaun-Andreok, I left on. Mrs García, you are asking me about the concrete measures that we are going to take in the Department of Labour and Justice to intervene in conflicts and strikes in feminized sectors so that the wage gap does not continue to increase in Euskadi. You raise two questions that may be related but that do not have the same answer. On the one hand, it refers to the concrete measures that we are going to take to intervene in the feminized sectors that are on strike or in other types of conflict, and my answer cannot be clearer: our intervention will be subject to the competences assigned to us by the rules in force. We are aware of the conflicts to which you refer, but I can assure you that none of them have claimed our participation, participation that is not other than mediation conditional upon the parties to the conflict or the negotiating parties to a convention requesting it formally and in agreement with them. Legality so establishes, and for our part there is no other possibility of intervention. On the other hand, you know, Mrs García, my position, and that of the Department of Labour and Justice, which is in favour of encouraging collective bargaining at all sectoral, territorial and enterprise levels. Your Honor, in this case, the role of the Government is to support and stimulate collective bargaining as a basic tool for sound and socially balanced economic development. But under no circumstances should the Administration interfere with the full autonomy of trade unions and business organisations in order to establish working conditions by agreement. It is the bipartisan framework for collective bargaining between representatives of workers and trade union organizations, where progress and solutions to the demands raised by the labour side are given, and it is also the area in which conflicts must be resolved. By the way, last Wednesday we have good news, as is the agreement reached between the people who carry out cleaning work in the justice palaces and police stations of the Ertzaintza of Gipuzkoa and the Garbialdi company. The right thing has been done: to unleash a conflict that already lasted nine months and to give a way out to the labour demands of the people employed through negotiation between the parties. The other question, Mrs García, is what are we going to do from the Department of Labour and Justice so that the wage gap does not continue to increase in Euskadi? I shall answer this question strictly. The Basque Government as a whole, not only the Department of Labour and Justice, is working to eliminate the existing wage gap in Euskadi. We don't settle for making sure it doesn't increase. I will detail the actions we have undertaken in the Department of Labour and Justice with the aim of eliminating the wage gap. As you know, I have already given due account in this Parliament and in other forums. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, we set ourselves as a priority objective the fight against fraud in recruitment. We therefore decided that one of the activities planned by the Labour Inspection Department should be directed towards achieving this objective. Temporality remains high in our country – you have said so – and so can we say about part-time hiring, referred to involuntarily. At the beginning of the legislature, I indicated that the fight against recruitment fraud was a fight for equality and therefore for the elimination of the wage gap, because temporaryity and part-time recruitment affect more women than men. There are more than 12,000 contracts that we have managed to transform, of which approximately 60% are women's contracts. When I say transform, it means that they have had to be changed from temporary to fixed, and, in relation to partial recruitment, about 15 % of the total, from part-time to full-time. These are actions that – I insist – were adopted in the planned work of the inspection, and we continue with them, even though today they are included in the government's plan against the wage gap. In this regard, I will also have heard the Parliament communicate the creation of specialised equality units in the three historic territories of Euskadi by the Labour Inspectorate. These are firm steps aimed at reducing the wage gap, which will undoubtedly bear fruit over time. With regard to some of the groups he cites, I should like to say that we continue to work with the people employed in the household, a sector which has been the subject of frequent attention in this Parliament. At the request of Mrs Etxebarrieta, without going any further, the past full of control gave an account of the work we have done in this sector of the work of domestic workers. The floor waitresses were also included among the planned actions of the Labour Inspectorate in 2018. Multiple actions were carried out, and believe me that they had something to do with the resolution of conflicts and mobilizations of several establishments. But, as you well know, the fight against the wage gap must also take on other aspects, and that is why I want to express to you our constant work to develop a prevention of health and safety with a gender perspective, which is a fact in each and every chapter and theme that Osalan elaborates. Your Honor, in the Basque Government we are aware that the wage gap is the expression of discrimination and inequality of women in the labour market. It exists all over the world, with greater or lesser intensity. I also note that it is not just a concern of the Government; you clearly expressed it by unanimously approving an initiative to push the Government to act against this situation, so that last November the Governing Council approved the strategy and action plan against the wage gap, which aims to tackle the multiple causes of the wage gap, through a battery of short- and long-term actions. I will quote the actions of my department in the operational plan of action to reduce the wage gap that we are developing: the specific plan of the Labour Inspectorate of Equal Pay; the specific training programme for inspection staff; the virtual box to report on possible wage discrimination; awareness-raising and information on the right to non-discrimination on the basis of sex; the specific plan of the Labour Inspectorate of Equal Pay; the inclusion of co-responsible reconciliation measures for personal, family and working life in collective agreements, in the social dialogue table; the rationalization of the timetable in the Basque production system; the social dialogue table; the elaboration of a study that delimits the concept of work of equal value to ensure the principle of equal pay; the design of a plan to incorporate the gender perspective into the Basque strategy of safety and health at work; the creation of a Basque register of equality plans; the promotion of training in the field of equality between agents in the social field; greater systematization and transparency in the processes of selection, promotion and evaluation of jobs in enterprises; the family project for the preparation of life reports on gender equality in collective bargaining; greater transparency; the establishment. Indeed, this is an ambitious plan that we continue to develop with the objective that you set us in the inquiry and in positive actions that are reducing, with the gaze placed on its elimination, as I have told you before, and not only not increasing the wage gap in Euskadi, as you point out in your inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u124	Eskerrik asko, San José andrea. Next, Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u125	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. San José, let's go in parts. You tell me about the pay gap operational plan, about the initiatives being put forward from your department in the pay gap plan. You propose to dedicate 60,000 euros a year to strengthen the inspection with specific campaigns that include many important topics: equality plans, discrimination, sexual harassment, reconciliation of working life or access to employment, of which the salary audit is only one of them. Really, this doesn't even work for one more inspector. They then propose to devote €75,000 a year for conversion from temporary or part-time to indefinite or full-time contracts, and that is 1.5 more inspectors. Moreover, I remind you that we, in the previous budgets, were already asking for a heading to increase the number of people in the Labour Inspectorate by 40, and you rejected it. Then they tell us about a 150,000 euros shock plan, which, with these amounts, seems more like a buffer plan. They will dedicate 6,000 euros a year to a training plan for the Labour Inspectorate and another 50,000 as a shock plan. Do you really think this amount is enough? Or 15,000 euros for a new study. You dedicate more money to an information campaign in the media, 80,000 euros a year, than the 70,000 euros of the shock plan. The mailbox of labour fraud, as far as the wage gap is concerned, is useless, much more so if we talk about the outsourcing of services by public administrations. These amounts are clearly insufficient. There are actions that are not financially endowed: the inclusion of social clauses in the public procurement of the department and, in general, of the contracting authorities, of occupational safety and health, in terms of gender, and that of improving access to employment, in order to increase the human resources necessary to deal with this fraud. You also told me they weren't meeting. You are part of the government; you can call meetings to promote solutions to agreement – especially when the administrations themselves are managed by their government partners – to talk, and you are responsible for those working conditions. Yes, they can call meetings. I don't understand why you're saying this. And, with regard to Garbialdi's agreement, of course, we are happy. But do you really think it was thanks to the work of your department? Because we understand that it has been thanks to the work of women workers and trade unions. What you have done with the minimum services has been to violate and curtail rights, such as the right to strike. This is what you are doing: you do not meet with the unions for the establishment of minimum services, when they are constantly discussed by the unions themselves. In no case have they given an audience with the extraordinary minimum services to the enlargements of these in the last strikes we are talking about, which I mentioned in my first speech. They do not respect a minimum proportionality in fixing these minimum services. As I have already told you in the previous intervention, they limit the strike in services that are essential only when women fight against precariousness and to end the wage gap. Although the worst is that they do not respect the criteria that other previous governments have respected since that 1994 agreement with the representative unions on the regulation of minimum services, criteria of union participation in the determination and regulation of minimum services, of resolving discrepancies in a negotiated way. No, no, You impose minimum services, placing all the burden on limiting the right to strike, rather than performing mediation work, to influence conflict resolution and to dignify the working conditions of women workers. They carry out a lot of propaganda, a lot of action, a lot of plan, and develop a series of measures and actions that are aimed at avoiding the effects of strikes. That is, if we are in the same line of solving the problem of the wage gap and that we have to recognise that these conflicts put on the table, what we cannot do is to pressure within these conflicts and do, even violate the rights of women workers with the minimum services. There are things in his hand. Yes, there are. Meeting is in your hand, and the question of minimum services, to which you have not answered, is in your hand. So, if we have, and I want to believe that you have the same willingness to end the pay gap, but it's that you have the means and you have the responsibility, and then, in reality, you do nothing. And when conflicts arise, instead of solving them, what we do is we put more fire on them and put more pressure on them. And I don't think this is the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u126	Eskerrik asko, García andrea. Next, to answer, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u127	I must insist, Mrs García, that our margin of manoeuvre is the one that allows us to have the law in force. No institution can interfere without altering the autonomy of the parties in collective bargaining processes. Our only intervention can be derived from the joint request of the parties – as I have already said –; if this proposal for mediation by the actors involved is not given, our mediation work in conflict situations is limited to establishing the corresponding minimum services in the event of a strike being called. And, with regard to the minimum services, which must be dictated by an attempt to balance that right to strike with the rest of the fundamental rights of citizenship, they must also be governed by those principles of proportionality and weighting. Minimum services are not intended to resolve strikes. In fact, they don't do it at all. On the other hand, when one of the parties considers that extraordinary measures have been taken that violate any of its rights – you have said so – it is possible to exercise the right to a judicial ruling, since it is in these judicialized proceedings that the judges have the last word. I would also like to stress, Mrs García, the importance of actions to combat the wage gap. As collective bargaining is confined to the bipartisan sphere, the fight against the wage gap is a matter in which society as a whole must be involved and where, in the institutional sphere, tripartite intervention is required: to promote equal education; to open the feminized sectors to men and men to women; to promote co-responsible reconciliation, making the care of girls and older persons equally divided between men and women; and to promote equality measures in enterprises through collective bargaining. All are measures or topics that require the combination of measures promoted by the Government, with the agreement and support of all social actors. Thus, in addition to promoting this strategy and action plan against the wage gap, a specific gender equality working group has been set up within the social dialogue table, which, inter alia, is dedicated to monitoring and evaluating the development of the action plan. In short, in order to end the wage gap, Mrs García, it is necessary to build more egalitarian societies, to raise the awareness of all citizens, to have trade union organizations that give priority to this struggle in the framework of collective bargaining and to have companies that have clear social responsibility with equality between women and men. It is not true, Mrs García, that the minimum services are higher in the feminized sectors, in no case. I have already told you that, of course, the minimum services are trying to weigh fundamental rights and seek a balance. Women aren't exploited by the department, Mrs. Garcia. You tell me that women are exploited, in abusive situations, which have limited women's right to strike. In no case, of course, is it the intention of this department to do such a thing. I hope that, of course, with this intervention you have taken note of our actions and convinced you of our limitations in dealing with collective conflicts or strikes. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u128	Eskerrik asko, San José andrea. The twentieth point in the theme list: The question is, "To ask the question of Mine, the parliamentary member of the Council of Ibañez to the Chief of Work and Justice, to lead a conflict between the Houses of Gipuz and the Department of Justice, not to present the Gipuz Aldudia of the Union." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u129	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief of the department, good day. Well, it's not going back and forth to renew the business agreement of the senior members of the Gipuian community. 74. In the day of the strike, the working women of these establishments are making a mark of dignity, and come to join us. The conflict is taking place, and the difficulties to make the settlements are obvious. Against what you said here, the ELA union, in front of the situation, asked the Department of Job to intervene, and in answer to that, the representative of the Gipulia had accepted the request. And, with an effort to unlock the situation, he called for a meeting on the 12th of June, the agents in this conflict: unions, patricians and Gipuzian Fordundia. But although the Labor Department said that no one was missing in that meeting, Foru Aldundia of Gipulia did not appear in that assembly. Only the unions and the patricians appeared at the meeting. Most of the old places are connected with the Gimpian Fordal Foru. It is the services of public responsibility which answer to a subjective right. So this is not a question to settle between unions and corporations. Today, we want to ask you about your opinion of what your Gipurian Ford is going to solve the case. What does the Chief physician think of not explaining the Gipuese Fordundia to the meeting called in order to unlock this conflict?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. My representative, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u131	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Jaun-Andreok, I'm out of my way. Mrs Kortajarena, today I have a question to this full of control which I have been asked with the same justification for the question procedure for your written reply, which has a deadline of reply until 10 July and which you will have an answer to all the questions you raise. In that, I asked myself six questions; in this, as the Rules of Procedure of the House dictate, you circumscribe it to ask me for opinion on the attitude of an institution, such as the Gipuzkoa Foral Chamber, and, in particular, on its failure to attend a meeting attended by employers and trade union representatives to deal with a collective conflict, such as that generated in the area of residences for the elderly in Gipuzkoa. First of all, I would like to tell you that I do not consider it appropriate to comment on the position adopted by the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, since respect for the powers of each institution obliges me to reply to you that it is the institution that has been called upon to account for its attitude. Therefore, Mrs Kortajarena, I am not going to make any value judgments on the decision taken by the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, but I can tell you about our intervention in the conflict over the residences of older people in Gipuzkoa. Nor am I going to comment on whether the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council is involved or not in the conflict; all I can do is refer to the legislation in force, which states that the signing of a collective agreement requires the participation of trade union and business organisations with representativeness in the sector. This is laid down in the Staff Regulations in Title III of collective bargaining and collective agreements, and more specifically in Articles 87 and 88. First of all, I would like to remind you that the mediation function of the Department of Labour is to intervene in the negotiation processes provided that it is admitted by the two parties who can agree – I have already said this in my previous speech –. Intermediation is possible only if requested and agreed by both parties, i.e. representatives of workers and business organisations. Be assured, Mrs Kortajarena, that we will always be open to fulfilling our responsibility, but within the limits that our powers impose. It is true that last June 12th the Labour Directorate convened a meeting on the situation in the area of senior residences in Gipuzkoa, and this call took place for two reasons: the first, because the ELA union had requested it from us; and the second, because the ELA union itself had called a strike in the sector between June 17th and July 12th; and, since it was a sector considered essential for the purpose of the strike, we consider it important to survey the minimum services to be decreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u132	Eskerrik asko, San José andrea. Next, Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u133	Mrs. San José. You probably don't want to write about what this attitude is supposed to mean, but I'll take over, and I'll say that the Indulous Foru showed contempt that today, contempt for the working people and contempt for both of them. Eta beara jarrera arduragabea of the iritzi diot, henera, zeren zuk hemen esan baitiguzu that does not belong to you to pronounce. You have told us several things at once, because you convened that meeting, and, if you summoned it, as you told us, it is because you understood that it was necessary to convene it. And you summoned the parties involved in that conflict, and you summoned the Diputation, the employers and the trade unions, the three of them. Now, you said it's to probe the minimum service decree; I don't know. But the meeting was convened to unlock the situation of collective negotiation of residences in Gipuzkoa. And, on other occasions, you have been in a hurry to intervene. Because when the staff of the housing service called for a strike, your department published a decree of 50 percent minimum services. In a few moments, Fordunda Foru, then, made a inspection, and seeing the results of this inspection were very serious, you went up to 70% of these minor services. Then you took part, and then, yes, you replied to the request made by the Indulous Foru. And I don't know if at that time you didn't find it worrying, within that data, what was the situation those women had, what are the working conditions in which these women work, who are now on strike, because Osalan and the Labour Inspectorate, which you mentioned to us are going to create a specific unit of equality, have been absent in all of this. Madame San José, it's very serious what's going on around the old people; it's very serious, and it's very imprudent that the operators are playing here. I think it's time to solve..., I don't know if the lehendakari, when he goes to that Global Forum of politics, to that High-level Political Forum, will explain there what is the functioning of the management of residences.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your time is up. To answer, and to finish, Mrs. San José, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u135	Well, Mrs. Kortajarena. I remind you that, in parallel with the call we made from the Directorate of Labour, for the purpose I have already described to you, there is a negotiating table which brought together the trade unions and business organizations at the headquarters of the Council for Labour Relations in Donostia. For our part, we believe that we should not convene any more meetings, because that negotiating table is perfectly valid in order to reach agreements between the social partners. By the way, a table that has abandoned the ELA union. As can be seen from the minutes of the meetings of that bureau, the discrepancy lies in the different priority given by trade unions to company agreements and to the sector. Some trade unions consider the sectorial priority, which does not exist for the residences of older people, while ELA aims to parallel the sectorial with those of the enterprise. I am not going to go into assessing these positions, but our preference for sectoral agreements is well known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-28.u136	Eskerrik asko, San José andrea. Next, we'll read an institutional statement. "The 10th anniversary of the coup of the State. "This Thursday, the 28th of June, is 10 years old since the coup of Honduras. In consequence of this stateal stroke, the President, the Manuel Zelay, chosen legitimately in the selections, was banished by a military institution. "After this conspiracy, life and political participation have become impossible, because of the repression which the people have continually suffered. The repression has been especially severe in the collective struggle for rights and civil liberties, such as the collective LGTBI, and the leading members of the community defending the country and the environment, in the case of Berta Cecères. "In 2015, Juan Orlando Hernández became president after an electoral process that was described as fraudulent. Among other requests, the OAS called for the elections to be repeated. In these 10 years, far from regaining normalcy, social protests have gone further. Today, a social majority demands the departure of Juan Orlando Hernández from the government, new democratic elections and a halt to the repression by the army and the police against the civilian population. "The largest sample of the above is the migrant caravans, which have been followed through the media, and although they were made up of different Central American people, the proportion of Honduran citizens is very large. These people risk and some lose their lives by building lives that are not allowed in their own country. "In the meantime, people who remain in the country trying to build a dignified life in the territory and who protest for quality public services, such as education and health, are violently repressed. In the last three days alone, there have been at least three deaths, more than twenty serious injuries and numerous detainees. " Therefore we will send all our fellowship and all our help to the land of Honduras in these difficult days. We denounce the conduct of the government of Honduras from the Basque Parliament, because the protests of the people are violent. We ask the government to stop and establish the repression for conversation and some means of democratic political intervention which will enable Honduras to escape from this intolerable condition." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two and twenty-one in the afternoon.
