ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Good morning. I'll start. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "about the administrative modification of the administration of the Public and Autobernus, of the administrative administration of the Euscripts of St.íbaliz Laruruuuu of Arangu." Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. Erkoek, during the past years, during the elections of public employment, more and more of the citizens of Esscal, and, more especially, during the recent work-processes called by the Elegical Administration. To give an example, the 8,204 people gave their names during the last call for the World MUDM, a week ago. In parallel, the Basque public administration has been working for many years to adopt its organizational structures to the new demands and challenges of Basque society. On more than one occasion, Sailburu has told us here about how we are working towards a more agile public administration, close to the citizenry and, ultimately, a more advanced public administration; in fact, the PEGIP 2020 Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation captures what is mentioned among its programmatic objectives; among other issues, through transformation, a great commitment to digital transformation. In view of this scenario, I would like to ask you today, Sailburu, about the actions your department is developing to make the management of the work bags more advanced, effective and efficient. And just in advance, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. As you say, yes, in December 2017, we have tried the Governorship and the Resident of Public Revolution, on the one hand telling us that as for the service of citizens, we must increase our personal services, and, on the other hand, we must encourage digitalization, even in order to advance the way of the paperless Administration. From the starting-point of these two axes, it is true that from the next July we will advance a very important step from the point of view of managing the administration's work bags, which will produce enormous benefits for the citizens who participate in those departments, even for the Administration itself. Indeed, from Monday of next week, June 17, the 57,000 people who are part of the 163 work bags existing in the areas of General Administration, Security and Justice will receive a communication in which they will be informed that from July 1 a new system of management of online work bags will be launched, a system that will rest on a web portal that will effectively allow to manage absolutely all the procedures that it is necessary to carry out in the framework of the work bags through electronic means. I would like to highlight the fact that the new tool that we have implemented to make this possible has been developed entirely by our own means. It is the result of collaborative work between different entities of the autonomous public sector. They have collaborated, among others, in addition to Public Service, the VATP, EJIE and Izenpe, and this new system is going to represent a very important qualitative leap in the management of the work bags, with benefits both for the Administration itself and for the people who make up those work bags. As far as the Administration is concerned, it is going to save very important personal, material and even temporary resources, because it is a very long time that people who deal with the management of jobs, of work bags, carry out through telephone communication. But also for the people who are members of the work bags it will be a very important leap, because it will allow them, from anywhere and through any electronic device that has internet connection, during 24 hours of the day and during 365 days of the year, to make arrangements in relation to the work bags. From 1 July it will be possible for these people, for example, to update their contact details, modify their preferences for job search, change their situation to be called, simulate situations in work bags in relation to the different factors that exist. All this will be extended from the following months before the end of the year, so that all, absolutely all procedures can be carried out via electronic means. Of course, the system enjoys the maximum guarantees of confidentiality and security from the point of view of the protection of personal data, and I would like to highlight the fact that, today, it begins to be only a platform for the management of work bags, but it aims to become a genuine portal of public employment through which not only the work bags are managed, but practically all the selection procedures, all the OPEs, as well as the internal supply procedures that are developed within the public administrations: transfer competitions, commissions of service and so on. We are therefore moving forward in digitization; we are in compliance with the Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation and the IT services. Electronic services are already a growing reality in our Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, that the members of the legislatures of the Otero Galirdos assembled to the Chief of the Environmental, Land Planets, and Housings, concerning the law of climatical change." Mr. Otero, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u5	Good morning, everyone. The climateal emergency and the necgetic have come to condition the Month of the year and the decades, for they are the main threat of our welfare. The world-wide tendency leaves no room for optimism, and the records and propensities of the Basque Country are extremely disturbing. As for the young, it has already become a great concern, not only an emergency, but a poor political answer given to the subject. Last week, the D.A. announced that the law of climate change was to start. According to the predictable deadlines, it will be very difficult to accept this law before the end of the law. According to you, Euskika, in a battle against climate change, it must be the end of work, the precursor of Europe. The content, on the other hand, appears to us to be merely a continuation of the most beautiful laws. What do you think of the targets you've been setting up?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u6	Thank you, Mr. Otero. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Otero, the objectives of Euskadi's future climate change law are clearly expressed in the draft of the preliminary draft, which is open to public knowledge and input from anyone since last June 4th on the website of the Basque Government. What do I think of the goals and objectives set out in the text of this law? My opinion cannot be more favourable, not only because it has been drawn up by our department, but also because it proposes an objective as ambitious as achieving a carbon neutral Euskadi by 2050, a zero-emission Euskadi. And not only that; it also sets out the concrete strategy and plans to achieve in these three decades the stated goal, involving all institutions, the private sector and all citizens and setting the necessary means and resources.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u8	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u9	The scientific community has told us a thousand times that pursuing the same policies is not an option. And you didn't have it that hard, Mr. Arriola; it was enough to copy. In February, his party in Madrid presented the preliminary draft climate change law, which, although improved, placed the goals well and made a serious approach. But no. This Government has submitted a preliminary draft with minor objectives, without economic pressure, without medium- and long-term objectives, without reductions in fossil fuels, without targets for the deployment of renewables; that is, a lot of zero-carbon rhetoric. You went to Brussels two years ago to announce a 30 % gas reduction commitment for 2030, and now you present us with the same target for 2040, so, if you take it out, you delay ten years the targets you recently set. According to his text, global warming is a problem, but Euskadi is doing things right. The government's words say that, but reality doesn't. I say to you, Mr Arriola: it is not appropriate to do climate policy by looking at the headline of the next day, which is what has been done, and to present here an immature text. Because you can appear on the Teleberri, on World Environment Day, announcing this, or you can appear with the lehendakari at the congresses you want to explain how well we do and the good plans we have – like the Klima 2050 – but the reality is silly, and the headline is another. Europe has reduced greenhouse gases by almost 25% since 1990. Euskadi, 6.2%. That puts us in the tail of Europe, not the vanguard. And I'm telling you more, because your project is about transparency. It is very symptomatic that, while we can compare emissions data across Europe in 2018, the Department of Environment does not publish data. We are in mid 2019, and the latest inventory tells us about 2016. And it's not that there's no data; they're in the Eustat. And it can be observed that in 2017 it is not that we reduce little, no; it is that we emit 5.5% more CO 2 than the previous year, and this, Mr Arriola, is the worst data in 15 years. A million tons more than the previous year for a total of more than 20 million, for the first time since 2012. A five-year setback when time is running out. This is not news, Mr. Arriola. You're not gonna talk to us about this. If climate plans and policies have led us to bad results, it is that design was not good, and if we base the law on current plans and policies, failure is guaranteed. And I end up talking about responsibility. In this climate emergency context, Mr Arriola, who emits the most responsibility, and the Autonomous Community, with an average of emissions higher than Europe, with an income higher than Europe, cannot hide. Our objectives must be above Europeans if we are to be a European vanguard. The law must start from here. You know of our commitment to this issue. We ask only one thing: more principle of reality and less boast of non-existent reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u10	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u11	Mr. Otero, one thing is the objectives set out in the 2050 Climate Change Strategy, which was done in 2015, and another thing is the objectives of the Climate Change Act. The 2050 Climate Change Strategy is reviewed every five years and will logically have to be adapted to the objectives set out in the Climate Change Act to be adopted by this Parliament. The truth is that combating climate change and reducing greenhouse gas emissions are a priority of the European Union, and must also be of the Basque Country. Even though we are aware that we are a tiny part of the world problem, we want to take on board and we want to be at the forefront of all the commitments that will be made in Europe in this area. First of all, with the law we aim to promote sustainable and carbon-neutral economic and social development, as well as protecting the territory and its inhabitants from the consequences of climate change. With regard to greenhouse gas emissions, while in the European Union it is proposed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, and the central government has set this target in the previous parliamentary term at 90%, our overall objective is, at this time, to achieve a carbon neutral Euskadi. Our words: getting so much CO removed from the atmosphere 2 like the one we produce. That is the objective envisaged in the preliminary draft law. And with this law, the transition towards a sustainable energy model is also pursued, promoting energy efficiency and the progressive deployment of renewable sources. But it will be the department responsible for energy that proposes the quantitative objectives and actions needed to achieve them. And it is that the fight against climate change does not go so far as to make ourselves very great, with goals of impossible fulfillment and to stay very well in this forum; it is about being ambitious in the objectives, and we will always be with the most advanced commitments that will be adopted in the European Union, but it is also about being rigorous and realistic to know that those objectives can be achieved. And as for the greenhouse gas inventory I was commenting on, I have to tell you, Mr Otero, that you do not have the complete data. You are wrong, because, as far as greenhouse gas forecasting data are concerned, I have to tell you that our 2017 data has been publicly available since the beginning of this year on the Basque Government's website. I can pass you the link, if you don't have it, so you can access it and check it out. It is true that the Ministry has published in 2018 an advance of preliminary data on estimates, and it will be in autumn when it publishes the final data of the year 2018, as will also be published the data of 2019 starting from...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Lander Martíne, members of the Podemos team together, with the president about the political and economic situation of the Basques." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u13	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Lehendakari jauna, do you consider that the guidelines submitted by your Government for the 2020 budgets respond to the economic, social and ecological challenges facing Euskadi in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Martínnez, the answer is yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u17	Mr. President, thank you for your profound response. I hope it'll take longer later. But, look, I'll tell you, reading the rules, I can tell you that we can almost agree on the shootings that come up there in the next autumn. But of course, with some notes. First of all, we miss a gap that continues to grow in Euskadi: the territorial gap. Differences between regions and between peoples are beginning to be worrying in issues such as access to public services, mobility, job opportunities and also quality of life and well-being. And next year's budgets must take account of the two-speed Euskadi. And, too, there's a social breviary going up in the Euskadin, and it's obvious that anyone sees it. We'll have to wait for all these challenges to refer to your budgets, but let me tell you that the fight against equality must also have means and also have protection mechanism, which will give results and will not give any bureaucratic problems. So, President, prove your real will, and bring here the law of RGI, and get a deal out of it to deal with the differences. And the same is true of course for the fight against climate change. It's no longer just about allocating resources. They must be devoted to policies that initiate a profound transformation of the productive model, courageously and with a high eye. And in this area, Mr Lehendakari, your government is terribly conservative, and I refer to the preliminary draft climate change law. It is disappointing and far from what Euskadi deserves and what Euskadi needs in this area. The budget guidelines also rightly include – I see they have listened to us after three months – references to economic uncertainties and the risk of deceleration. However, he does so only from the perspective of economic indicators, and although we have asked him several times about this issue, lehendakari, I ask him again: how is the draft budgets going to offer protection to people and businesses against macroeconomic risks? And do not answer me only through job creation, because, if that job is precarious, there will be neither security nor certainty. The people in Euskadi are not particularly concerned about whether they are going to find work, but about how long the contract will last; ea bere soldierak bizitzeko emango duen, eta zer stability-perspektiba izango dituen bere bizitzan. Eta horrelako errornkak ez baditugu afrontatzen aurrekontuetan tresna beriekin, ez dugu prekarietarekin bukatuko, ezta gizarte-bretxarekin era. Eta, Azkenik, finally, allow me to express my doubts that his Government's draft budget will respond to the challenges of the guidelines that they say they will respond, because, seeing the budgets of previous years, we do not expect major changes, even if it tries to look for holders of a pact and get into the cart of impact issues, such as climate change. In the meantime, I will listen carefully to Mr Alonso's question to see how willing you are to buy the stability of your government in exchange for a tax reform that favors the rich...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínez, your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínnez, profound response to the question. So profound a question, written on paper with such justification, and registered one day before our instructions were presented. Anyway, we agreed on Tuesday, and the question is registered on Monday. The budget instructions we agreed on Tuesday are an open proposition to respond to the hinges facing Euka. We have four default challenges and highlights: To promote economic growth and help to produce social employment; to improve the quality and comfort of public services; to guarantee social expense by helping the most needed, and to encourage social panic; and to make a further progress in equality. That's what you're proposing to do, to share and improve all the legal teams, if you need it. Mr Martínez, these guidelines are set out in the commitments of budgetary stability, commitments of budgetary stability. And they contain the limbs to weave an agreement that responds to the present and future challenges of our society. The guidelines are an open door to negotiation with all groups, to negotiation with all groups. We agree on the economic, social and ecological challenges to which we have added demographic and equality challenges. We will face as a country the technological-digital transition, the ecological-energy transition and the demographic-social transition. The 2020 budgets are a key instrument for addressing these changes with greater guarantees. Starting with the economic and employment challenges, we envisage a new impetus to the framework programme for employment and economic recovery, and also to the plans that shape our strategy: industry, investment, internationalisation, innovation; and our commitment is to increase investment in R & D again by 5%. In terms of cohesion and social justice, more resources are allocated to health, education and social policies. I repeat: three out of four euros, three out of four euros prioritize a people-centred welfare state. Three out of four euros. We defend an eminently social budget. We will respond to the ecological and environmental challenge. The guidelines provide for investments for energy transition, the circular economy, hydraulic infrastructure, combating climate change, protecting biodiversity and green agriculture. In addition, Euskadi will be a pioneer in gender-responsive budgets, which prioritize the fight against violence against women, the reduction of the wage gap and the promotion of work and family reconciliation. We will also give priority to the demographic-youth binomial, promoting more employment, higher quality, and access to decent housing, which facilitates a horizon of stability and emancipation for young people. I reiterate our offer: the doors are open, and our determination to reach a budgetary agreement is firm. Today I am glad that you recognise that there are areas of agreement, including the presentation of the economic-budgetary guidelines. The door's open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the United States, Chairto Priente St. Vicente of the Socialists, made to the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and Commsimosimos, concerning the control of clausul on the mortgage condition of debtors." Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u21	President, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor. We ran into the bank. This is an old topic of a literary reference, but I think it is very current, because it is the feeling that many citizens have, and it is also the reality in which they live. We are not criticizing banking as an economic instrument and as a social instrument, because, obviously, it has its role, but we are puzzled by the persistence of that bank, which is in part the author of the economic crisis. It is also, to a very significant extent, the author of the loss of jobs, of the loss of business, of the loss of domestic economies, which has led to many citizens having to suffer in order to be able to repay their mortgages and who have been involved in a situation of involuntary defaults, on which the bank has been usurped, has been antisocial and remains so. We agree that banking, for its social function and for its services in the economy and in the social function, has the right to collect for its services, but to what it does not have the right is to want to collect for its non-services. When a citizen cannot pay his credit, the internal management that the bank has to do to claim it is a management that has to enter into its costs, which cannot be charged to the citizen, and less when it is done in such an abusive way, as is the case with the debtor positions in mortgage loans, in which, for that claim service, sometimes it is intended to charge 100 times more than the actual cost of such action. Therefore, the Kontsumobide Institute, the institute for the defence of the users of the services of the Basque Country, has much to say and, moreover, has much to accompany, because in this reality there are already other powers that have also been positioned in a very strong way – very clearly, the Judicial Power. There are hundreds, thousands of sentences that already state that it is an absolutely abusive situation, affecting thousands and thousands of people, but yet this reality insists, and therefore political power also has to accompany, the public power also has to accompany that judiciary. We know that the Kontsumobide Institute has been doing work in this regard for years, in defence of consumers and users; that this work is essential to accompany them in their complaints and to prevent these abuses from continuing to occur to the domestic economies. Therefore, the question has a public interest, it has a social interest, it has a public interest, because in the answer you can also have a reference for those citizens who continue to suffer, suffering this situation and who, however, have all the right to solve it today, and to have at their side not only the judiciary, but also the political power. That's where the question comes from. What actions is the Institute taking in its department in defense of these users and consumers? And, well, what expectations, perspectives or lines of follow-up can give citizens so that they can defend themselves in front of this bank?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u22	Thank you, Mr Price. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u23	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. Indeed, as you recalled in your question, Kontsumobide carried out campaigns to inspect mortgage contracts of the financial institutions with the highest implementation in our Autonomous Community. During the course of these campaigns, we detected clauses that, since Kontsumobide, we consider abusive, a provision in which commissions were charged for debtor positions in mortgage loans. Mortgage loan contracts were required for the 11 largest Euskadi-based entities, and 10 had included this clause in the terms of their contracts. All 10 financial institutions were sanctioned. In total, the amount of sanctions amounted to EUR 320,000. Precisely, the fact that this sector, that of financial institutions, is one of the main concerns of the citizenry causes us to carry out constant control work. Thus, in the first five months of fiscal year 2019, we have answered 158 requests, 568 claims, more than 1,000 queries and two requests for arbitration. This has led to the opening of five cases to companies in the banking sector. But to this ordinary work of attention and control we have added a new specific campaign aimed again at detecting abusive clauses to debtor positions in mortgage loans. This campaign, which started in 2018 and ended in 2019, has yielded these results. On the one hand, the actions have been carried out in the same financial institutions in which it was carried out during the last campaign, except one, which no longer operates after a merger process with another entity. The distribution of banking entities by territory has been as follows: in Álava, contracts of three entities have been inspected; in Bizkaia, four; and, in Gipuzkoa, three entities have also been inspected. Of the eight banking entities that have responded to our requirements, seven continue to incorporate into the terms of their contracts the unfair commission clause for mortgage lending debtor positions. Two of the entities have not responded, so we have also initiated a proposal for a non-cooperation penalty. The provisional findings point to nine non-compliances, and their proposals for sanctioning dossiers, if successful, amount to a total amount of EUR 580,000. Therefore, from the department we will insist on the work of control and use all the mechanisms granted by the law to prevent these abusive and harmful behaviors of the rights of consumers. Thank you so much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Aranegui Rausea, members of the Popula team made to the president about the reform attorney." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, very good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. You announced the other day that this year it is up to you to make a tax reform. It is true: there was a commitment two years ago that this year we had to take a turn. We did a tax reform of corporate tax and some other issues not long ago. It is the only reform you have made; now you announce another. And I have a lot of interest in knowing which line is going to follow the tax reform that you announce.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u26	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, to clarify, first of all, I have not announced any tax reform, I have not announced any tax reform, among other things because this is a competition that belongs to the general boards of the three historic territories. A week ago, what I said was this: three years ago, we agreed on tax reform. That agreement included an evaluation of the results to be carried out where appropriate. We will do so, and our commitment is to evaluate to improve always since the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u29	Well, thank you for clearing me up so much. I already imagined that you would come walking on the water as always, but, of course, everyone thought you were talking about a tax reform, which, in addition, you told how it was going to be done, because it was going to be through an agreement, and nobody knows what it is. But it is true that your party has a parliamentary group that has put a government in this House that you preside over. So, you have some relationship, far away, distant, of little communication, but some relationship you will have. And they also govern the three Basque deputies, where they have a partner who now allows them a majority to address that tax reform. And this is very important. And you can't stay out of reality and you can't encapsulate here –"I have nothing to do with what happens around me, I have nothing to do with the decisions that the parties make, I'm a character who lives outside any political context" – because that's what no one understands. You just understand it that way. Everyone else understands it differently. I was coming in here today and they were asking me to see how pissed off I was this morning. Well, then, I'm not very angry, because I have very good talent, not because you don't try to make us really very angry. They say, "You get kicked out of a couple of villages." Yeah, sure, and because they can't get us out of more places, and they always do. That is the political context created by those people who have nothing to do with you, who are in Sabin Etxea; those people who have nothing to do with you, who rule in the main institutions of the Basque Country. And I think this can't be anymore and it doesn't hang. So, you have to favor a context, but there is a fundamental problem, which is the problem that worries me, and the problem is: who are you and who are the Basque Nationalist Party? What do you want? You don't tell us what the tax reform is, if you're going to raise taxes, if you're going to go down, because it depends on which partner, because you don't care. What they emit permanently is that they are incapable of becoming a transformative force of society, and that what they are is a political force grabbing power, and the rest doesn't matter. This year, apparently, there was a feeling that you wanted to agree with us. The truth is that the argument was not very flattering for us: "we will agree with the PP because, as they are weak, they have to agree with us." Look at the argument, too. I have the feeling that this year they wanted to negotiate with us because last year's negotiation went wrong with Bildu. Listen, and if they negotiate with Bildu, then the tax reform will be to raise taxes; and if they negotiate with the PP, it will be to lower taxes; and if they have a majority in the Chambers with the Socialist Party, what will it be? Do you think I could share budgetary policy without sharing fiscal policy? Because I've come here to do politics and share serious, good policies for people. It seems to you that the Basques that matter most are the Basques who are affiliated with the Basque Nationalist Party, and nothing else. You have to define what policy you want. I am not willing to support governments; I have always been willing to support policies. But what cannot be converted is this Parliament into a market: today it offers Podemos, tomorrow to Bildu, and, what happened tomorrow, Mr Lehendakari?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u30	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, who am I? Well, according to you, someone who walks on the water. He elevated me to a rank, Mr. Alonso... Anyway. I don't know if you're mad or not. You know what role each of us has in the Basque Nationalist Party; you know it well, despite the fact that in the media or in public opinion this continues to distort. You know all about it, Mr. Alonso. In any case, and not knowing whether you are angry or not, I think you are not very focused today on intervention, because you have told me about many things that have nothing to do with what tax reform is, which I have not announced. With regard to fiscal reform, where appropriate, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party – I suppose – will try to proceed in relation to the criteria that we also agree with you; the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party with you, with the People's Party, in fiscal reform, in the current fiscal system for fiscal reform that came into force on 1 January 2017, and where there were two criteria: to contribute to generating economic activity and to promoting job creation and to ensure the stability and sustainability of essential services for citizens. These are the criteria agreed by the PNV, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, and the agreed reform offers positive results. In each fiscal year, the collection levels of the previous year have been exceeded and the fight against tax fraud has improved. So stability was a positive value. Tax certainty is a guarantee for economic and investment decision-making, and when we agreed, or when the reform that entered into force on 1 January 2017 was agreed, we made a commitment to evaluate the results with the experience of three years; therefore, with the 2020 horizon, as you also signed. The results of the agreed tax reform, I insist, are being positive. Economic activity has grown over the last three years and new employment opportunities have been created. One thing: in January 2017, there were 916,000 people registered with Social Security. Today they exceed 966,000. There are 50,000 more people working in two and a half years. Look, I defend the advisability of harmonising taxation in the three historical territories, and in this regard I remind you, so much so that you have spoken of marketing, of opening the door or of agreeing with one another, I remind you that you, the People's Party, agreed to a reform last year, here, at the General Councils of Araba, with EH Bildu. The People's Party with EH Bildu. EH Bildu with the People's Party, which involves fiscal deregulation. In any case, the tax reform agreed in 2017 insists that it has been proven effective. The agreement compromised the conduct of an evaluation of results after three implementation exercises. We find ourselves in the third, so when I conclude, we will have the complete data and, together with the outside parliaments, we will carry out the evaluation and take into account the new elements that have been revealed in recent years. As far as the Basque Government is concerned, it will continue to focus on what the current tax system is capable of doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, by Guanche Suáz together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the president of the Renaissance and the political police of the patriarchal inclination." Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u33	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Mary, to say a hypothetical name, is a woman of Barakaldo, a survivor of Machist violence with two children of 6 and 14, one of whom, like her, is considered a victim of violence by her aita. Firm sentence. Mary had a VPO when she lived with her assailant, and when she decides to denounce this situation, she is forced by her safety and that of her children to leave the house, finding a safe place in a friend's house temporarily. The assailant, in one more act of violence, gives him discharge from the pattern. To the endless violence exerted by his aggressor, one must add one of institutional violence, because María Lanbide removes the GIR because of that gap in the pattern. And, from then on and until now, Mary, with a firm sentence and order of removal already expired, because it has been a long time, lives again in her house, yes, but remains pending from the letter of Etxebide and without the RGI, an indispensable income for the coverage of her basic needs and those of her children, a right that no one should take away from her, let alone for the bureaucratic consequences of having fled in order to live. Like Mary, there are hundreds of women in Euskadi, survivors of sexist violence, survivors of patriarchy and survivors of institutions that do not always support them, but abandon them. They say the social movements fighting against the exclusion that Lanbide defends macho violence, that Emakunde does not kill them and that poverty kills them, but Lanbide is the one who kills them. These are slogans that synthesize what we want to make visible so that it can be corrected, because the social policies of Mrs. Artolazabal's department have a clear patriarchal bias, and that has a direct impact on the lives of many women and their families. The situation I have just shared is just one example that illustrates why we wonder and ask what Emakunde is doing to ensure that the income guarantee system ensures the real and effective exercise of women's rights. The essential aim of Emakunde is to achieve real and effective equality of men and women in all areas of the political, economic, cultural and social life of Euskadi. The income guarantee system, which is a system that protects the exercise of a citizen's right, is at the same time a system that treats women as if they were solely responsible for their poverty situation. There are hundreds of women who, like Mary, are cut off every month by a clear lack of gender perspective in the care, criteria and standards that Lanbide applies. The social policies we have, in which the GIR is a sample, are deeply patriarchal, like our societies. That is why we need to find the way for the income guarantee system to protect Mary and so many other women. We need Emakunde to act and put Lanbide on the purple glasses, because we have the coherence in it, but, above all, because many women, literally, have their lives in it. Dozens of Ararteko's resolutions, accumulating year by year, which Lanbide rejects or fails to respond. And in the meantime, Mrs. Artolazabal, with the autopilot. And meanwhile, at least in our impression, Emakunde bends his head and pretends that this isn't going with her. We have a law reform going on, yes, one that has no gender perspective and is going to make these situations even more precarious; a reform that Emakunde did not even know after weeks of having been presented in this Parliament; a reform that you want to lead to cover up the shames of a poor management of your government and that you do not end up solving, blocked because it is deeply antisocial, but, above all, because you say you want to talk, but you do not move. And, as there is at least a part of what you are going to answer me that I already know myself, advance myself, and tell you something that you already know, and that is that in Euskadi we talk about Euskadi, but that the fact that there are initiatives to expand rights in the whole of state citizenship does not give you a white letter to cut rights of Basque citizenship. On the whole, Mr. President, we ask you this question: What's the gift doing to guarantee the basic income so that the system can guarantee all women's rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Guanche, in your question you mention three goals: To guarantee equality, social protection and women's rights. Those three targets are just fun. You know the last example, i.e., the budget instructions for the next year, as the first answer, when we accepted the view of equality in the first grade. The VII Equality Plan drawn up by Emakunde points out the main objectives of intervention by the Basque Government and the rest of the administrative levels. Women's economic autonomy was a priority issue. And, in this line, Emakunde, along with Lehendakaritza, coordinates the strategic plan against the wage gap, in which six government departments are involved, Mrs Guanche. The objective is to ensure the economic autonomy of women, so that they do not have to make use of income-guarantee income or other support systems. And, in cases where such economic autonomy cannot be achieved, the system articulated around income guarantee income, social emergency aid and supplementary housing pension has contributed to economic stability with a significant reduction in structural poverty indicators. As you are well aware, Mrs Guanche, income guarantee income claims are resolved in strict compliance with the law and its corresponding regulatory regulations, adopted in this House, with a broad consensus of the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u37	Mr. President, thank you. Beware of ambivalent discourses; that you do not have to make use of support systems, what you are saying is that you do not have to make use of the exercise of a right, something that no one should be ashamed of and something that the highest exponent of this Government should not be sorry that people can use and exercise. I still think there's work to be done. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. I totally agree, Mrs Guanche, totally agree, but what I do not know is whether you have understood me in my speech, because I have told you that the objective is to guarantee women's economic autonomy, so that they do not have to make use of it; to guarantee economic autonomy, so that they do not have to make use of income-guarantee income or other support systems. And I have also told you that, in cases where it is not possible to achieve this economic autonomy, the system articulated around income guarantee income or social emergency aid or supplementary housing pension has contributed and will continue to contribute to economic stability. In any case, you have also referred to the Income Guarantee Income Reform Act, and the Government believes that the law can be improved, of course. And for that reason, the parliamentary groups supporting the Government put forward a bill which, a year later, a year later, today, is waiting for Parliament to put it through, and it is not because of the government's unwillingness, no. The proposal that has been put forward, Mrs Guanche, and which you know, incorporates a number of reforms to update and improve the income guarantee system. We must incorporate the cross-cutting gender perspective into social policies, Mrs Guanche. For example, single-parent families with women in charge have been given special consideration. Look, sincerely, we hope, that the government will soon begin the process of the proposal by this Parliament, and that the groups, which have requested to postpone a year ago, and even the past municipal, foreign and European elections to postpone the debate in this House, hope that the groups will take the opportunity to make their contributions. And in the meantime, there is no doubt that the Government will remain committed to the equality and social protection of all people, avoiding any kind of discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "about the measures which are to be taken before the serious situation of the Basques, made by the members of the United States of the United States as well as the President." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u41	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Before 2012, no one doubted whether the romance of the Basque Company or the attachment to the land. No one doubted that all the stockholders, or almost all of them, belonged to the institutional institutions of the stock, or to those who had a clear engagement with this people. In 2012, the Social Party, the Jeltists Party, and the Arkbanks set up the trial of Eujaltel's privatization, you were told: "Relax, the Arkbank will maintain the majority of the stocks, which guarantees the shooting." In 2015, when they decided to get him out of the stock, you said to us: "Don't worry, the Arkbank will still keep a package, which will suffice to control the company." And now, in 2019, Zegota is master and master of the Basque Company. So what are you gonna do? Will you follow the Devil's lawyer? Will you defend the good name of zero? Will the government economic manager remain responsible for the public relations? Or are you going to face your responsibility and do what you have to do to get back to that situation? That is to say, and the other one to buy the shares of the Basques. Will you buy the Basque shares to return to the Basque Corporation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u42	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, first of all, I'd like to ask you to tell me who you're responsible for the decision you've made at 2012. And four years ago, in 2015, the Basque Company made an important decision to guarantee their shooting: that is to say, it will require more than 75% of its capital to leave Euskade. And remember, Zgona's 21 percent ago. So there's no majority of what you said about Zegona. This decision of the Basques isn't usual, and it was positive that shooting requires more than 75% to support it. And not only that, but in Euskaltel's strategy, this romance of Euskalides has always been rated as an advantage. The new manager of the company has also stated it. And it's known that it's a piece of equivocation for the company world to be close and helpful, and, on our part, we'll do our best to continue the Euskaltel Corporation's Euskalel, and from this point we'll develop a new plan of competitive activity from here to the same place. And that's our example, and we have many tools, we have many tools to do for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u45	President Señor. The decision of 2012 was attributed to the person who took it and to the person who voted in favour; among other things, to his party, which, in the mouth of the post-economic adviser, i.e., a qualified economic spokesman, voted in favour and defended that with this decision to privatize the fiber optic network and the actions did not put the root of Euskaltel at risk. Zegona doesn't have a majority, I know, but Zegona is in charge. If Zegona did not send in Euskaltel, why does the councilwoman of her government say that we have asked you please not to go in with the knife? It is not that they command; owners and lords of Euskaltel. Only the owner and master of something is asked please not to enter the knife, because they know that Zegona does indeed rule. Zegona has three stages in its intervention in a company: buying, repairing and selling. You too should go through three phases. They've been through two; I hope they get to the third. The first has been to deny reality. They denied reality and still have the glimmer of continuing to deny reality when they call into question Zegona's control. They refused to lose the root, but the root has already been lost; the root has already been lost because the decisions are being made outside of Euskal Herria, and in non-Euskal Herria interests. Then, a second phase is that of justification, of saying: "The plan is not so bad." That is not what you have said now, but that is what the advisor has been saying all week: "Zegon is not so bad, the plan is interesting, it has the support of all shareholders, 100% support; then, it will not be so bad." It's already justification a little like the bitch and the grapes. Of course, since you can't maintain control, at least now let's say that they're not so bad those who came. Let's move on to a third phase. After denying reality and after justifying reality, they begin to transform reality. And move on to lead a collective effort to regain control of Euskaltel. And that goes through a significant package of actions taken by the Basque Government directly, by the drive for Kutxabank to do the same and, where appropriate, by resorting to third parties or external investors, or by concerted action with investors who are already in the company to prevent what Kutxabank wants to do – which is maximizing profit at the expense of everything else in Euskaltel – from going forward. The managers, said the lady counselor that they were not going to come in with the knife. Ask the managers. We are not going to shed tears for them; they are the Praetorian guard of Erauzkin, they are the people who have brought us here, they are the sorcerer's apprentices who have played with fire, they have invoked the devil and, as soon as the devil has appeared, the first thing he has done has been to release them. And I'm not going to shed a tear for them, but what I'm going to say is that this has been a warning to navigators. The public execution of the Euskaltel directive means that Zegona is not going to repair anything at all. No one has their job insured in Euskaltel, and nothing is insured in Euskaltel if this does not change. I ask you to lead that change.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u46	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, Mrs. Tapia's advisor told you at the previous full checkpoint. This is a matter of trust or mistrust. We already know that you are installed in permanent mistrust, in permanent mistrust and in the choice of negative opinion always. Look, Euskaltel is a project considered strategic. Its root is a competitive advantage and has historically been protected, and this is demonstrated by the shareholders' agreement in 2015. Reitor: any change in Euskaltel's root elements, any change in Euskalel's root elements – social, fiscal, workplace, brand, network and effective management – requires the agreement of an exceptional majority of the shareholder, more than 75% of the capital. The Basque Government has, yes, at all times maintained its relationship with Euskaltel and also with the new representatives of Zegona, and the company has unanimously – unanimously – approved on its board of directors, by all shareholders, a new strategic plan focused on the competitiveness of the company, on internal synergies and on the expansion of the telecommunications market. Strategic plan adopted unanimously by all shareholders. The relationship will be maintained in terms of trust and collaboration, so that Euskaltel remains at the forefront of technology and is a tractor of the digitisation of Euskaldi, and all this with the aim of generating more wealth and, therefore, also employment in our territory. Look, the economic policy and support for the productive fabric in Euskadi has a long history, and we have tools that can be applied in forms of advances, guarantees, reintegrationable credits and even funds with the option of taking part in strategic projects. There are many cases where we have been able to contribute to the continuity of activity and employment. Reunited Tubes is the example of the same week. So, Mr. Casanova, don't hesitate: We're gonna do everything we've got and we're gonna keep doing and we're going to keep making Euscaltels and companies to root up their development and competition in the Euscadin. And that's our model and our goal. I conclude this intervention by congratulating the company MásMovil, the fifth Basque company in stock market capitalization, which today has become part of the Ibex 35. Basque company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Konörr of the Popula team made to the president for the sake of regulating violence against women." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. We hope today, Mr President, that we have good news on this subject. Mr Lehendakari, this is the second time I have asked you in four months on this issue, on the reasons for the delay in regulation on gender-based violence. I asked him in February about this issue, and we want to know exactly why they are leading to this delay. This regulation was foreseen in the calendar, in the legislative programme, before the end of 2018, and therefore we have been six months late. And, Mr Lehendakari, there is no need for me to make a reference to the state of play of the matter in particular, because we already know it. We know that on 19 October 2018 the procedure for the preparation of the preliminary draft law was initiated. We know the decision of Emakunde's council to open it to public information. Therefore, we know that you are on point, Mr Lehendakari. But, as I said, let us hope that we have good news and, above all, that the reasons for the delay in a priority matter, of which we already had to have news, and whose regulation had to be in the Basque Parliament for its parliamentary procedure, will be clarified.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u50	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, our approach is to promote through this regulatory proposal a great country pact, a great country pact for equality and against macho violence against women. Emakunde, after prior consensus work, which agreed that the new law would be linked to the current Equality Act – and this took time to agree that the new legislative initiative would be linked to the current Equality Act – has prepared a first preliminary draft law amending the Equality Act and eradicating macho violence against women. This preliminary draft was presented, as you said, on the management board of Emakunde on 6 March, and it is not because I want to reiterate what administrative processing is, but because I want to remember that, on that management board of Emakunde held on 6 March, all parliamentary groups have representation, also the People's Group. The Group of the European People's Party is therefore aware of the explanations of what is the process of dealing with this legislative initiative as a major country pact. The council, representing all the groups – and its own, therefore – approved to open a period of audience and public information. This is the reason and this is the time we are in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u53	Lehendakari, we have to thank you for your peace effort. We have already seen, and the president of my party, Alfonso Alonso, has made it very clear to him, that he does give whatever he wants, it seems, to the Basque Nationalist Party. In any case, I must blame you for your lack of diligence in a matter of utmost priority. We are talking about the new regulation on gender-based violence, Mr Lehendakari. Three years in the legislature. This is simply a sign of the inaction of this Government; this is the tonic of its Government. Two weeks ago, also in this rostrum, I believe that it was many parliamentary spokespersons who blamed him for his lack of activity, of legislative production, in relation to the commitments made in the legislative calendar. 28 bills, Mr. lehendakari, five passed. Of those, three more, eight bills; that's their balance sheet of the legislature one year after the holding of the autonomic elections, which is when it plays – we don't know if they will be before. And I say that it is the general tone, because then I ask again a councilwoman of your Government, Mrs Artolazabal, also for another bill that has completed the deadline to send it to the Basque Parliament, and we have no news of it, which is the amendment of the Children and Adolescents Act of 2005, Mr Lehendakari. You will therefore understand that this question is timely. It was in February; I thought I wouldn't have to ask you again after four months a new question, but it had to be so. Therefore, you will understand the reproach, which is absolutely logical, and of course what we want to know are the concrete reasons. Three years of Parliament, information, concrete deliberations, and that's all very well, but you had a commitment. You started the procedure on October 19, 2018, when the deadline you set yourselves to forward, to pass that bill on the Governing Council was before the end of 2018. Therefore, lehendakari, I believe that your lack of diligence in this matter, I say to you, is one more example, but it is the general thrust of your Government. We hope that in this final part of the legislature we will be able to see this bill, and we hope that it will not be too late, Mr Lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u54	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. President, to answer you, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, I am not going to go into what is the lack of diligence on this; it seems to be a mantra, and we will have to keep talking all the full, Mrs Garrido. In the same way that I understand that you are reproaching me, I also understand that it would be good for me to attend to what I am responding to and also to reflect my answers even to the questions that you have expressed in this rostrum in your speaking time. I insist that, in relation to what is the legislative initiative we are talking about, we have considered that this is a great country pact, the necessary one, and, as such, it has needed to agree that it was either a new legislative initiative, expressly for the eradication of violence or against women, or it was a link with the existing Equality Act. It has taken your time to agree that this was so. I have also referred to what is the Emakunde Board of Directors, where you are represented. Look, the law is a strategic instrument, and therefore participation has been prioritized; open sessions have been organized in the three territories, with the assistance of more than 250 people; presentations have been made in commissions or commissions, groups and groups involved; support has been provided to women's associations to facilitate contributions; and this process has taken time, and requests from different groups have been addressed to extend the time frame for the allegations. The result is that we have received 300 contributions from civil society and over a hundred different administrations. We have therefore received contributions from different districts, and, as far as civil society is concerned, Mrs Garrido, the feminists, women, and those of the country against the Machista, have arrived in the following manner: the unional organizations, the entities connected with functional débertsity, the integrity of advice, professional unions, business institutions, or university, and, as far as institutions are concerned, Eudele, Eudinal Eede, and the Eudins. Emakunde is working, meeting all the required legal requirements, and at the moment we have the second draft of the law that will pass through the inter-departmental and inter-institutional coordination committees, as well as the follow-up committee of the II Interinstitutional Agreement for the Improvement of the Care of Victims of Women. The mandatory reports required in the process of drafting this preliminary draft law are being requested from the Public Service or Language Policy and from the management of modernization of the Administration. It will also be referred to the Economic and Social Council, the Labour Relations Council and the Recruitment Advisory Board, in addition to the Office of Economic Control and the Legal Advisory Commission. The final document will be prepared with your contributions, and we will present it before the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Myria Llanos Gómez Euspulic Groups of Laws to the Chief of Security, to spend the night at the Basque Academy of Police." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors. Counselor, until this last promotion, those who passed the selective process and accessed the Basque Academy of Police and Emergency did so in boarding school, staying from Monday to Friday in the Academy. It seems that, by a decision of the Department of Security, this regime has changed, and from now on, the members of the XXVIII promotion will have to go to the Academy daily, and only the food will be paid for. They have, therefore, two options – as I said – to travel daily, with the economic and personal cost that this entails, or to rent a flat nearby, more to face the costs of breakfast and dinner, and it is assumed that these costs would have to face them with the salary they receive from the Academy. But let us remember that this salary does not reach 600 euros and that it would be spent virtually overnight, on maintenance or on travel. In some cases, even, it may not be enough, and therefore we see how some of the seekers have said they will have to use their savings. But what will happen to those who do not have them? Those without economic resources will not be able to cope with training, and this may seem anecdotal, however, is important in view of future promotions, because we also knew by means of communication that the 700 positions of the OPE of your department have not been covered. Could you tell us here today what the number of people affected has finally been? But it does not stop to draw attention that, being the job in the Administration an attractive offer, being the Ertzaintza an institution recognized by the Basque society, for the first time not all available places have been covered. Initially 4,350 people were targeted, and that is why we insist that it is the attention that among those 4,350 people it was not possible to find 700 valid aspirants. Perhaps we should ask ourselves, if you can clarify us here today: what have been the criteria used? Where has the biggest screening occurred? And why – as I say – have not these 700 valid candidates been achieved? Do you think, Madam Counsellor, that you have unusually not been able to complete the whole OPE is because the Ertzaintza has lost appeal? Don't you worry, in case that's the case? Do you not think that changing the overnight arrangements will increase this lack of attractiveness? What steps will your department take in this regard? And finally, what is that announced transport system going to consist of? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u58	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief officers, President. Mrs Llanos, the Basque Police and Emergency Academy is taking steps towards optimal management of the training needs of Basque public security services. And the first need has to do with the replacement of retirement benefits that are taking place in the Ertzaintza. But not only in the Ertzaintza; you know that there are also increasing offers from local police, local police stations in the various municipalities, as well as fire prevention and extinguishing services. In fact, tomorrow, 3,949 people are scheduled to be examined at the BEC in Barakaldo to cover 270 places in 36 municipalities, 270 places for local police, students and students who will enter the training courses of the Arkaute Academy. But again I come to the necessity of the Edge, to the wants of the department: We've called the 1 073 Square at the previous work-promations at the 260th Square. And, of course, you don't need to remember the reason for that media: the Spanish government's resources were not unlocked until the 2017 security board. That is why we now see ourselves in the need to call for more promotions, in no case below 500 places. We have done so also in this promotion XXVIII, which, finally, and in the absence of closing the final lists, has been extended to 665. It is not the first time in the history of Ertzaintza that a promotion does not cover the total call. It's not the first time. With fewer calls, the accommodation of the academy was an option offered to students. Each person freely chose whether to stay at the Academy or to come daily from his or her home. From now on – it is true – they will have the free meal regime, but not the accommodation regime. In any case, I have to tell you that the courses, the training plan is not based, it is not based at all on the boarding programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u60	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u61	Counselor, it is true that there have been other promotions in which they were not completed, but what you have not said is that those years in which those promotions were not completed were in which ETA had in its point of view the Ertzaintza, and perhaps that also had something to do with it. But also what I said to him: 5,756 people showed up, for example, five years ago, and in 1993, it spread to 9,050. And yet now the number of seekers is shrinking. That is why I say to you whether this does not concern you, and whether these changes will not affect the lack of appeal of Ertzaintza. It is true: the lack of space is due to the fact that the rooms have become classes for the formation of other policemen or members of other bodies, and to us it seems good, but the Ertzaintza should be a priority, and therefore you should have made a greater forecast of the necessary space and improve the conditions. And that's why I ask you, since that space is no longer there: how are you going to cover transportation? Have you considered raising the salary, as some unions demand in the Ertzaintza council? Are they going to let the unions solve the problem of transport to the Academy? Because you have not answered me: that system that you have announced, what is it going to consist of? Because I think it's important, I think it's important and that, really, changing the training system, being able to spend the night in Ertzaintza will affect future promotions. I already knew that I was going to take it out of the Government of Spain, but now they no longer have any impediments. Why haven't you covered the 700 seats? Don't you think that with the measures they've taken, they won't cover them?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u62	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u63	Look, Mrs Llanos, we are concerned that the selection is adequate, that is, that the best people are selected to practice this profession and that the training is adequate, the best training. But concepts such as training and instruction should not be mixed with accommodation logistics. In fact, the overnight and boarding arrangements, in these terms, as I have told you, have ceased to be mandatory since 2014, as is the case in other police training centres. In the last promotions they have had that option, the option of accommodation that, free and personally, they have been able to decide at each of the moments. Now that's the only thing that goes missing. For the rest, the Academy will continue to provide a free meal service for those who have an early morning and afternoon formation program. From now on, students will have to plan their rounds, and they are ready to assist the Academy and the Department. In a short time there will be more than 1,000 applicants to the Basque police receiving training in the Academy. Therefore, and it is true, they have to organize their movements and they are in it. In fact, the Academy is also involved in this; it has already provided them with a contact point for managing their mobility needs. And at the same time, from the Department we are working on possible avenues of economic aid. In other words, there is also no lack of attention on the part of the Academy or the department in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u64	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is, "To ask you, Maider Ottagoria Tolosa EH Collectorda, the head of the Department of Economics and Submissions, about the Porte of Pasadena." Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u65	Thank you. Good morning. On April 5, we asked you to give us your opinion about what was going on in Pasadena. You told me we were in front of a work conflict, and all of you, including the President of the Passaian Portuguese, are extremely involved, in your words, in recovering the climate and repairing things. In addition to this, Osalan has been asked for an intermediary. I'll remind you of your last words: "I think the decision has been taken aback." On the 15th control line of May, we asked the Chief of San José about this operation of Osalan. He told us that Osalan is not a intermediary, that his work is limited to the advice of the psychostic dangers to update the protocol. Actions of mediation are not a function of Osalan. You should know. So I'd say no. I told you the other day that we are facing a problem much bigger than the conflict of work, much worse and more efficient, and that it needs immediate solutions because theport in the passia is one of the clabeic infrastructures in our economy. Look, Mrs. Tapia, you told me the other day that I had a work problem with the harbor and, in a way, to deal with the strategy. You told me I messed up two things in a way. Well, don't get it wrong. I didn't mix two subjects. These two subjects are entirely connected; the one has an extraordinary influence on the other, and you know it. Everything that happens at theport of Pasia has a direct influence on his everyday life. Maybe he hasn't had a lot of influence in his activity yet. You said that difficulties and difficulties are going on in the harbor. But this situation has an influence on the arrangement of the port and how it works. The absence of directors, for example, influences the development of the port's activity, and today, since I first asked you about more than two months, we continue without new directors, six to seven months ago without directors. It was heard that the name of Acha was proposed, but at last he turned away. Now, there seems to be another name in everybody's mouth, which seems to have already the consent of the state. If I am not mistaken, on the 28th of June, the usual council of administration will be to the Portuguese, and I hope that the nomination of the new director will be accepted. Is that so? Do you think that's gonna help us get past the port of Pasadena? Do you think they're planning the right solutions?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u66	Thank you, Madam Mount. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. Madam Mount, as you have said, I replied to you in April, and I confirm it to-day. The question you mention is a question of labour, a problem proposed by the workmen, and therefore of their relation to each other. However, I think it's a special attention to him, and he's having to fix it and make it better. That's the point. Because that's what I agree with you. After all, what happens as institutions, the atmosphere, in a sense, can determine what is going on. But in this case, it wasn't the case, and you've accepted it. The last year's results were better, and growth has been in traffic, and it's still on the way to recovery. And the harbour itself is not going anywhere; there is a harbour, but the activity of the harbour is in good condition, and is going towards better. The traffic is coming back, and don't get it back alone, but it's growing. One more thing: No director, operating. The Director's been in hubaba for a disease, and really, without the director, the harbor has been two months without that picture. We must, therefore, mention this particular fact also. In any case, it is true that, given the existence of a labour problem, it must be curtailed and all means must be put in place to do so. Maybe it's true that when I talked about Osalan being in the middle, that's not the word. Their collaboration had been requested to improve the process and to address in technical aspects anything that could be carried out. So, what has been done? The available internal protocol has been put in place, so that the complaints that had been submitted were dealt with. Technical assistance from Osalan was requested to improve, if necessary, so that, in some way, it would act by giving its advice to improve the situation. In addition, in contact with the Harbour Authority, we have been informed that the relevant commissions have been set up to analyse the cases that had been presented. These commissions have worked completely independently and, of course, confidentially, as it could not otherwise be, and they are expected to issue a resolution shortly. In addition, three of the five people who were on leave have already been incorporated into their work and are working on a normal basis, assuming their respective roles. And, as you pointed out, the next board of directors is looking for the maximum consensus, not only of the administrations, but of all the agents present on the board of directors, to take on two relevant aspects: on the one hand, the appointment of a new director for the port, and, on the other, that there is a new organizational chart for the operation of the whole administrative activity of the port: president, management and all those who depend on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u69	Mrs. Tapia, look, you keep talking about it all over and over and over and over while we're in front of a conflict of work. And I think that's the humillatian for those workers. It's not a work conflict. We are facing a serious indictment against an indictment of workkeeping. I think it's a struggle of work to sum up in a conflict of work, Obs, very, very serious on your side. But, well, you say it has no effect on his everyday life. I'd look at the details you give me, because it's true that the activity, compared with the years before, has probably not come down, but you know that all this has a much better influence on his activity than I do, whether the communion or this specific state. For this unfortunate situation, there is a great difference between the President and the board of directors, as regards the model of management...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u70	Thank you, Madam Mount. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u71	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Not a work conflict, I've said a work problem over and over again. I didn't use the conflict, and when there's a work problem, there's a work problem, there's a problem with work. And I mentioned that there's a problem with work purposes and that the protocol that's in motion has been started. It is fulfilled that which puts the word in it, and such a conflict or such a problem is done to me, not when there is a conflict, that is to be done. From that point on, you say you would look at the details. It's the port data and it's public, and on the 1st of June, on the six months of which it's Timbuktu, not five, because it's on the 1st of June, on the 15th of these five months, in 2019, the traffic has been raised 128%. Data is data. And it is true: they always compare themselves with the former year, and I think that, in this slowing economy, such growth is, I think, the port's work is good.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology, my dear Kortja, the members of the staff assembled by Ibañi to the Chief of Empedugus and Polic Society, about the plans of the Spanish Government to demand the transfer of passive policies for jobs." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u73	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, chief of Artola generouss, good day. In many economic indicators in the European context, however acceptable the data of the member of the community may be, those around the job, whether quantum or quantum, are very little. Look, the member is in position 50 in Europe as far as wealth is concerned, and we are the 240s in business. Without Greece and Spain, there is no more unemployment in Europe than we are. That's where we're competing with Italy, trying to place ourselves in that podium of the backs. The number of personnel has for the first time exceeded the level of crisis. We are touching historical ceilings, with all that is supposed to be doing in the service sector. The rate of unemployment is going down, but the situation is very remote from the period of crisis: We're double-crossing our unemployment rate in 2008 right now. And, ma'am, in Europe unemployment has recently a remarkable tendency, and we, in this tenacity, are no exceptions to good or bad; we are carried away by currents, and in this sense the influence of the employment police which this government has made has been neutral. Nay, I dare say that this government has made more force to accept this rate of unemployment of 10%, and those general claims, than to descend this rate of unemployment, or to promote a social employment. And the clearest example, probably, will be that self-bobon campaign that has been planned for a few months now, which cost us 2300,000 euros. Quantitative data not good, and not quantum. In the past, they are related to the quality of employment, the descendants of that comma which follows after a low rate of unemployment: Temporality, uncertainty, solitary devaration and Praediction. It seems paradoxical, but from the most beautiful of stability and stability we have entered the darkest period of uncertainty. FOESSA recently presented a report that is already illustrative of reality from the front line. "The violation of the right to decent work" is the title of the report. It speaks of a job that combines low wages, unwanted partiality and temporaryity, and that causes recurrent entrances and exits to employment, and of how intermittentness and precariousness are leading us to a scenario where working no longer guarantees anything, does not represent a shield. There is a reduction in the unemployment rate, yes, but, Mrs Artolazabal, almost half of the families, 45.3% of the families in which there is employment do not enjoy a situation of integration, which shows a quality of employment insufficient to meet the needs of households. The data are worse if the breadwinner is a woman, and if the unemployment rate is below 10%, it is true, therefore, that the vulnerability in employment is 19.5 %, Mrs Artolazabal. Exclusion rates are triggered in the case of persons with part-time working hours and in the case of persons with temporary working hours. And the indefinite contract is also not delivered, because 9 % of people with indefinite contracts are also in an exclusion zone. Of course, the highest rates of poverty and exclusion continue to be concentrated on those groups that are unemployed. And that's why it's hard and hard to answer those who're out of the state who're out of work. 64% of the unemployed does not receive any preparation from the state. It's not a good situation, it's not acceptable, it can't be satisfied with such a situation or a self-centered reading. Nostamos para triunifalisms. In this area, which is the chief concern of the police and is the centre of the agenda of all political parties, it is necessary to correct this structural distortion and advance on the way to the social employment, overcoming the margins, and developing the leadership and initiative by significant public policies. The principal aim of this political science ought to be to promote a social employment of quality, which rests without neglect or distinction on proper and just conditions of work, and gives a firm answer to the prevarication of the extended structure. The same Illus, I think, is very interesting in this sense, which follows from the ambla of OIT in a few years ago: It's time to give people the answers they expect. It was clear that people must feel that they have recovered and protected control of life in this assembly, and we are perfectly satisfied with it. It is precisely in this effort that the Basque People are to be understood by the United States, the enterprises which have been presented to the whole of the legislature, and the vast compacts which have been encouraged by them. Many times have been protected by groups supporting the government, but they have generally remained unfinished. In this context, as has been said, we must develop the leadership and the initiative by significant public policies, but, in order to promote the most significant, effective, and decisive policy, we must also need tools in our case. It is well known that the want of copies and congruity of the absence of jurisdiction from the employment police is wanting to us. Yesterday, Mme. "We don't like the effects of the form of work, but that's not up to us." And so it is: our hands are tied, and our hands are tied, and we are entangled and entangled in a great disorder. And we're on a stage that supposes an enormous impact, because disorder is terrible. The organization and management of Spain are extremely bad, intricate, producing very fatal influences in the people, which I do not say; And I don't think that's what we need, and I don't think our society needs it, and I don't think the profession needs it with everything above it, so that it can be asked for a consistent service of quality. And, further, laws and politics are comprehended in us by us, and also in those which are our jurisdictions, are meant to tell us how we ought to do things. It's not the first time we've brought the subject. Here we discussed a motive, and obtained an agreement, and agreed that we should strictly demand the State to deliver us the passive state of employment, which will allow us to have a private policy, and a more consistent and consistent attention to public employments, to answer the affairs and roots of the Basque society in a proper manner. At the time when the government sent him a letter, Mr. Rajoy was president, but unfortunately things have gone differently. There was no good result in all the efforts that had been made. Not only does the government of the State continue to oppress and invade the jurisdictions of passive policy, but only to bring matters to an end in front of the courts. In March, the last decree about Eplenac was the most obvious example, and in the end, in the month of March, I was obliged to put another appeal because our jurisdictions were broken again. We'll see what will happen this time, but it's not a good pint, Chief Artolalot, because the government of Madrid is blind, dumb, deaf to the demands made on the jobs, lost in its disorder. And if not, ask Mr. Marco, how many times he's asked for a series of things, including that RGI and unemployment should be consistent, or that, in self-remotive developments, he's going forward in view of protection, and what's the answer, the empty answer. And in the meantime, we're still on tours. With that income, which is not legitimate yet, we continue to cover up the holes left by the others, and to wander about in an exhausted model. The results are not good either here or in Madrid. The management of Madrid cannot be worse, a management that is destructive to people's conditions of life, this government follows the inertia of what's done in Madrid, repeat the demands until it's bored, and here the appeals are not acceptable in this situation. And therefore we do not know what will happen in the next few weeks in Madrid, what government this government will be, but it seems to us that the Basque people will be obliged to assemble by such an opportunity as may offer new governments in the whole of this state, to overcome these contempts, and to commit immediately to the intervention of those free-handed transferments to their functions. And I wanted to ask you today about your intentions in this attempt, Chief Artola generous: What's the purpose of making you do with your own, co-heroes and congrants, the Spanish Government demanding the transfer of passive employment policies?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u75	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days. I agree with you, ma'am, that it is necessary that the rights which M. M. M. M. Today, on this subject, your legislative party has proposed a number of enterprises to the President, as well as to the chairman of the Public and Auto-elect. This time, I adapt myself to this answer, as I am the chief physician of the Imperial and Polic society. My department is the manager of the element to take over that jurisdiction. I share with you the need for the Basque Government to achieve the competences provided for in the Statute of Self-Government in the field of passive employment policies. Employment is seen as a social pillar, and together with education and health, it is the basic structure of our model of society. These include the set of decisions aimed at the development of programmes and measures aimed at achieving full employment, their quality, the quantitative and qualitative adequacy of the supply and demand for employment, the reduction of unemployment situations and the adequate protection of persons suffering from this situation. Employment policies fall into two categories: active and passive policies. By definition, active policies are considered those aimed at finding work for unemployed people, i.e. those who facilitate their integration into the labour market. Lanbide is not responsible, and cannot be attributed to him the solution of labour market misadjustments. This market is a subsidiary of economic policy, and the progress of economic policy is the one that determines its main results. However, Lanbide's role as an instrument of employment activation is its best contribution to the social vertebration of the labour market. This is the function attributed to Lanbide since 2011, when active employment policies were transferred to Euskadi. Its functions are based on work intermediation through a model based on activation through co-responsibility, and employment is our priority. Employment is the basic axis of our government action. Our challenge at the beginning of the legislature was to reduce unemployment rates below 10%, and we are doing so. To this end, we encourage public policies of an economic and social nature, which aim to reduce and direct the creation of more jobs and higher quality. The management of these policies required, and required, the harmonious integration of both specific employment policies and policies affecting economic development into a framework programme. Employment and economic recovery are therefore inextricably united. But these active policies should be in line with passive employment policies, which are, by definition, those that provide the unemployed with a substitute remuneration for employment, i.e. benefits and unemployment benefits. The Basque Government has, among other things, as a priority transfer the management of passive employment policies, as we have moved on more than one occasion. You yourself in your question acknowledge that the efforts made by the Basque Government to achieve this transfer have been ignored by the State, which, as you say, continues to invade and trample repeatedly on competences related to employment policies. We now see another opportunity to materialize those untransferred competencies, and now you too see that opportunity in the new government of the State to get that transfer. We believe that this transfer is a priority, because it would allow us to make a policy of intervention in the face of possible situations of exclusion, but in an integral way. We therefore consider this to be a priority transfer. In an inquiry that you made to me at the beginning of the legislature, we agreed that, thanks to the income guarantee system, Euskadi better supported the impact of the economic crisis. Thus, we were able to offer the citizens who exhausted the unemployment benefit resources so that they could continue to have minimum incomes that would prevent their fall into exclusion. But we cannot confuse passive employment policies, which aim to maintain the incomes of those without employment, with welfare policies, which are also part of social policies. The transfer of passive policies, therefore, is within the priorities set by the coalition agreement and in the government programme, in addition to having the majority support of this House, and we agreed then and we continue to agree now on the importance of that transfer. That is how we have sent it to the central government through the different interlocutors and the different forums. The application for the management of the social protection system due to unemployment is also included in sheet 13 of the Report on Updating the Transfers Pending to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. This management includes unemployment-specific benefits, at both the contributory and the assistance level, as well as any other benefits of a similar nature. This is therefore not a new issue, as the demand for full compliance with budget forecasts is something that this Government is carrying out during this parliamentary term, and so are previous governments. Therefore, Mrs Kortajarena, what I would like to transfer to you is that we continue to work; as the Basque Government, we will continue to work within the framework of the Joint Committee on Transfers, and we also consider important the agreements of broad consensus that have been given in this House, which urge the Government of Spain to take effective steps to move forward on this issue, in the same way that similar initiatives are being pursued in the General Courts. Therefore, the only way forward on this issue must be through democratic respect for the Statute of Self-Government and to ensure that the State administration joins in this. Such involvement will bring with it effective political agreements that will benefit Basque citizens. She's from a real view of the EukMU. She's in charge of the negotiation work. So the calendar of transfers offered in the Mist Committee leads us to organize the organs of managing, in order to influence the given jurisdictions. In this calendar of transfers, as has been said, passive employment policies are considered as transfers of priority. Therefore, as I said to you, Mrs Kortajarena, the Basque Government is taking on the negotiating work from a realistic point of view, offering in the Joint Commission a timetable of transfers allowing the management bodies to organise the assumption of these powers. And, as I said before, in this transfer schedule, passive employment policies are seen as a priority transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Chief Artola generouss department. I, too, come to the point from a realistic point of view. I don't know if you'll remember a background song. How the song of the chorus used to say: "Hay algo aqua que va mal." La canción said to me: "Ya sé que a ti is te maybe." I already seem to have understood that it obviously doesn't matter; I understand that it doesn't matter, but that doesn't mean that there's still something wrong here. And we have a situation, a very clear dysfunction, that goes by having a very important impulse of employment policies, policies that are truly effective, politica esanguratsu eta eraginkorrak egitetik. This may be the privilege of this transfer of passive employment policy for this government. But what we see is that among these privileges the Spanish Government did not pretend to do anything about it. He has not made a plan, and in this I ask you, except that it is a privilege, and that you are ready to do what they will do in such attempts. Ander se hacían plublicas unas medicas que hudedo Macron, y decía: "The French Government will punish persons or agents who make short contracts." Can we do that? No. Macron presented a large reform package. I won't say whether I agree or not, but, for example, can we make up our minds about the salary of unemployment and the expansion? No. And I agree with you. The income to guarantee incomes shouldn't be a substitute for a state of unemployment, but now it's going to be, because the 64% of our unemployed people don't get any coverage from the state, and that's why we need to put on the guits. And it's not a little while, but we need to get on with the band. Can we make a decision about the kind of contracts or the legislation? No. Can we make a decision about retreats or pensions? No. Is there a time to get social security immediately? No. No. There's no such thing. And I plan everything I'm planning here today because I feel that at this moment the facts are very obvious where we're going and where we're going, and what our situation is, and that the public and cohere policy of employment and the characteristics of productive patterns and workers is of any importance at this moment. You are also distinguishing passive and active politics, but now the limits between them are becoming more and more vague, and they affect each other more and more; and it is necessary and reasonable that you should possess all of them, in public, private, and cooperative matters, in order to form a proper employment, to distribute the work, and in general to value the conditions of labour. It's the elements we have to get, including the job-action, the opportunity to decide the life of the work, the ability to promote jobs, the integrated policies, the incentives, this trinomium of preparation, the protection and protection of the unemployed, and that's all that's got to be taken over us. But the question is, that we have an audience, and I think we can stay in it like a hamster, involved in a faded model, seeing that the popular challenges are terrible, and that these popular challenges open a few chances and menaces, but the chances open to us in order to advance the popular court and receive those answers which people require, and we can't wait for them. It seems to me that what we know at the moment is to give these people the answer they need, to get their own control of life and to feel protected by them, and that it is necessary to open that frame of that which is possible. And if that's what it will be, of course, at that business table, but at the same time, even if it does, and bets between other options that open this legislature. For they often ask us: What do you want from Autogobernu, the new state? Well, just because we need it: the orientation and status of a new state, stability, and such complete and integrated policies, will be offered to us. And that's why today's interference wants to be an invitation, an invitation to the road together, but that doesn't give us a chance to conform. Exerte and work...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u78	Thank you. Your time is up. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u79	I have moved you, Mrs Kortajarena, in my first speech, to what framework of action we have as a government. We are aware that this is not a new message. We know that we have been calling for transfers that have not been made and covered by the Statute of Gernika for decades, but I believe that the present moment is different. In recent months, progress has been made on transfers through the transfer of some of them, and all of this makes us look with optimism at the future steps that can be taken in the transfer of passive employment policies, because the transfer of these policies will enable the deployment of a comprehensive employment policy and Lanbide's attention with higher doses of efficiency. But it is key to differentiate between welfare policies and social policies: the latter – the social ones – are universalists, generalists, and are directed at the whole population, while care policies are directed at people in a social emergency, the most needy people, and are therefore neither universal nor generalist. This difference is very important to know what is the enabling title to exercise competence and legislate in one or another field. Income guarantee income is an aid policy and, as such, seeks to avoid the situation of unprotected persons, and its limit must be understood at that border. And we must all be rigorous in the area of competences. Euskadi shows that what we manage directly works better. Unemployment is already falling by 10%, and, with EPA data, we have risen from 16.3% in 2013 to 9.97 % in 2018. In the past year, 8,265 less long-term unemployed persons have also been recorded. In Euskadi, the membership of Social Security grows, with 872,600 people in 2013, and, in 2018, with almost 970,000 contributors. And in the last year, the rise in social security membership is 17,178 people in the Community as a whole. Therefore, things in Euskadi are going well. They can go better, and for that, we are all involved in achieving greater achievements and greater goals. But inter-institutional collaboration between society, social partners and businesses, creating employment programmes, relying on training and the incorporation of new technologies, is bearing fruit in this career of continuity. It is therefore important for the State to comply with and transfer what is agreed and provided for in the Statute of Gernika. As you said, two remedies of unconstitutionality have been introduced, based on the State's competitive invasion of active employment policies. In both cases, it considers that the State granting the designation of subsidies – an element to be treated as a passive policy – to programmes which involve accompanying unemployed persons to return them to the labour market, and, since this is the subject of economic aid, it would fall within the scope of active employment policies, which is the competence of the Government. Its processing and management would therefore be the responsibility of Lanbide. This is the context in which we are in, and the fact that the Joint Committee on Transfers prioritizes the transfer of the management of passive policies is crucial. Thus, as I indicated, we would apply and manage from a global perspective the needs of the unemployed. But we must not fall into the mistake of using the areas in which we do have competences with those in which we do not have them. And the claim to the State for the management of passive employment policies and their conventions is the eighth commitment of our government programme. That demand is something we do permanently in the Joint Transfer Commission, in Congress, in the Basque House and in the various political forums in which we participate. And you are now adding to that claim, and that is a positive thing. We will continue to work on the Joint Transfer Commission, we will continue to ensure that the State does not interfere with the competences we have transferred, and we will continue to call for the transfer of passive employment policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Laura Garrido Körors are allowed to guard the children and the Nerabeans, and to change the law of law to change the law of the First Union, as well as not to comply with the legislature program." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, members of the Parliament. Well, then, we continue to talk about the commitments of this government, embodied in the legislative programme adopted for this legislature, and we now have yet another example of the poor record of this government's legislative output. The Basque Government also provided in the legislative programme for the current legislature for the adoption in the Governing Council of the draft law amending the Children and Adolescents Act before the first quarter of this year. After this date, Madam Counsellor, we have no news of this change. We would therefore also like to know, as we have asked Lehendakari about the delay in the regulation of committed gender-based violence, what are the reasons that are leading this Government to the delay in the adoption of the relevant bill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u82	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u83	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Garrido, this Government is working towards the fulfilment of its commitments. The drafting of this law by which you ask me is closely conditioned by the adoption by the State of the Organic Law for the Comprehensive Protection of Children. In addition, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child recommended that the Spanish State expedite the adoption of legislation to ensure the comprehensive protection of children from violence and ensure its implementation at all levels. In view of this recommendation, in the second quarter of last year, the General Administration of the State launched the preliminary draft organic law for the comprehensive protection of children and adolescents from violence. This legislative proposal had a special impact, among other things, on the family, education, social services, health care, the judiciary, the media and new technologies, and the aim was to establish a more comprehensive state regulation in the face of situations of violence against children and adolescents as well. This content of the Act is of a basic nature and therefore of compulsory compliance by all public administrations of the Autonomous Communities. But the situation of instability in Spanish politics and the successive electoral appointments have prevented the processing of the law in the General Courts and, therefore, have conditioned the progress of the processing of the Basque law, because the Spanish law conditions, because of its basic character, the law that we can process from our responsibility as the Basque Government. There is a situation that has already been repeated in other areas, and therefore, by an elementary criterion of prudence, we were obliged to delay the start of work on the draft of the preliminary draft law, because it was necessary to know the progress of the procedure for the processing and preparation of the preliminary draft. Since this is a basic rule, as I said, it is necessary to ensure that autonomous rules are consistent with state rules and to prevent the text of the amendment from including provisions or regulations that would have to contravene the provisions of the basic rules and, on the other hand, from addressing the legislative development of what is our competence. The delay has therefore been due to the fact that in the Spanish Government it has not been possible, given the instability that has occurred, to adopt this law, which is of a basic nature. And, therefore, we, in view of the inability of the Government of the State, have begun the processing of the Basque law, in order to try to comply, to the extent possible, with a small delay, with the adoption of that law at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u85	Yes, ma'am. Incapacity of the Government of the State, which you have supported in two versions; before 1 June, supporting a Government of Mariano Rajoy, supporting the budgets of the governments of the People's Party, and then changing, making a turn and supporting the government or a motion of censure to unravel Mr Rajoy and, consequently, supporting a Government of Mr Sánchez, supported by a whole series of parties, including you. Now, the reason is the lack of regulation by the State, in this case of the General Courts, of an essential matter. On other occasions they do not wait so long for state regulations, and on other occasions they do not wait so long for state regulations, but they skip them directly, and they do not care that the relevant conflicts have to resolve them, in this case, the Constitutional Court. So, counselor, you'll understand that sounds a bit like an excuse to me. And if not, let me tell you, I have to tell you that, then, this Government has failed to fulfil its own commitments, and I say to you that this is not an isolated issue; it is that this parliamentarian and this parliamentary group, today, has raised two questions to this Government about two delays in two essential regulations, committed to in its government agenda. The first has been the regulation of gender-based violence, but it is the second time that I have asked this Government and, in particular, the lehendakari on this issue. The draft law on the regulation of gender-based violence was planned before the end of the 2018 financial year. I asked Lehendakari about this issue in February, I asked him again today, and, at best, he said that this regulation would be referred to before the end of the year. We are here before another clear example, Counsellor: a draft law amending the Act on Adolescents and Children, which has already passed the deadline committed in the legislative calendar. I must therefore tell you that it is no longer a non-compliant Government, which clearly does not comply with: 28 committed bills; of those 28 bills, counselor, to date, five passed; three others, because we have eight passed laws, but those three did not come on the legislative agenda. We must therefore conclude this Government's absolute inability to adopt essential legislation on priority issues for Basque citizenship. And, therefore, let me tell you, but, as far as legislative production is concerned and as far as your department is concerned, also a quite large suspension and zero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u86	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u87	Mrs. Garrido, the arguments I've moved are no excuse. You know what it is difficult to process a law in this government, and what we intended was, by that prudence, to have the basic law that the state was working on, in which this Autonomous Community has worked intensively so that we could save ourselves the amendment of a law, which, if we started its processing, we were aware that at some point we should update. So that was the most important goal we had, and it's no excuse. We have prioritized the definition and generation of normative development, and during this time we have been making progress on things that do have to be reflected in that future law, which is going to amend the Children's Act of 2005. That new legal text has to have a multidisciplinary and comprehensive approach, and to have underage people at the centre of our policies and actions. Therefore, Mrs Garrido, our commitment was to have brought this bill in the first quarter, and let us hope that in December 2019 it can be approved by the Government Council.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies of Jule Bollain Urbieta together by the law of the Podemos to Ogas and the Chief of Economics, the prosecutor's fraud." Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Subaz. Good morning, everyone. "Probably, the most important problem of the Basque tax system is tax fraud," said Professor Zubiri and Professors Serna and Vallejo. And it is that the importance of the issue that brings us to this inquiry derives, among other issues, from the negative economic consequences, from the reduction caused by tax fraud and from the failure to meet the objective of taxation, which is the redistribution of income and wealth. You know perfectly well, Mr Azpiazu, that tax fraud reduces income from the antisocial conduct of people, entrepreneurs and businesses who do not want to pay what they owe to public finances. That is why reducing fraud is essential in order to be able to meet the financial needs of the Basque public sector, which is also an issue of interest to Basque citizens, because, while some people are defrauding with full hands, the vast majority pays their taxes, because a person who earns 1,000, 1,500 or 2,000 euros a month, Mr Azpiazu, cannot do the tax engineering that is in the hands of a minority. The bridge and its team filed a review on the attorney's fraud, and showed that there was a hopeless Euskade situation in regard to the attorney's fraud, and, thanks to this, we learned that in the Esuca Autonomy of Euskal, the tax-tribute of 11 billion euros had been in the neighbourhood of 11.11-2014, 174% of the raw internal crime. In Euskade, between 2011-2014, the collection lost about 3.700 million dollars, and of these 3.700 billions related more to the administration of Esscals than $13,20 million. Of course, we can look at the inhabitants of the South as usual, but even this time we're not going to get very thin, because it's only the Eucadian scale of the Spanish State. On the other hand, if we look at those countries which control more tax-crumbs, for instance, the United Kingdom or the United States, then we'd see the average level of the Eukadin, because in these countries the secret economy is between 7 to 10% of the raw internal product. Besides, we must not forget that the money which goes on against the tax-press is renewed by multiplying: so much study shows that 10 euros are introduced into the public safe for every one of those who are engaged in the struggle against the tax-press. And, after all, there are 10 of them that are all about people who cheat on us. These 10 euros can be used to prevent the budgets from getting less than the economy can increase, for instance. He said that, for every 10 euros that are derived or directed to combat tax fraud, 10 euros are recovered for the Administration. The 10 euros which are obtained for each of them invested in the struggle against the tax-press could be used to promote the plans intended for society, for health, for education, or for economy. It is true that the citizens are tired of the tricks used by those who have the most means to pay or pay nothing at all, and that conduct which is so general in certain areas must be abolished. We have to fight, and we have to put the necessary resources in order to make the tax press disappear once and for all. Society ought to know that its levying of taxes is of importance to the support of public services, and that the artifices used by certain persons not to pay taxes will not remain in it, but that it will be a firm opposition to them, especially from public administrations; It is essential to continue to take measures and to take care of the holes in the system that make it easy for some taxpayers, businesses and entrepreneurs not to contribute precisely to the payment of taxes with which the public services of all Basque citizens are finally paid, simply because they are of justice. We'll probably share this with you and me, but I'm going even further and I'm going to numbers. We have seen that in recent years something is happening that really worries us Elkarrekin We can: that revenues have increased less than the economy has increased. That is, less and less taxes are paid, and this is not because it is the workers who pay less; this is because it is the big companies and the big estates that pay less and less. And I am going to give just a few facts that demonstrate this trend, and I am doing so with what the forecast for 2019 was in the draft budget law, which was not finally approved by this Parliament. The first, in relation to the IRPF, we have, on the one hand, how the contribution of labour returns increases by 2.1% compared to 2018, and, however, we see how the contribution of capital gains is reduced by 24.1%. As a total result, what do we find? The amount collected by IRPF is 0,9 % at the expense of the workers in Euskadi. Secondly, corporate tax. The proceeds from capital gains, once again, are reduced by 24,1 %, and the net differential is reduced by 1,7 %. In short, corporate tax is expected to raise in 2019 or to raise 3.7% less than in 2018; in total, about EUR 50 million less than the bill said. But this, really, was sung, and already Zubiri predicted it when you negotiated the tax rebate with the People's Party, which was being given to entrepreneurs between 75 and 50 euros per citizen of Euskadi. Thirdly, VAT is increasing by 5.6% compared to 2018, and in total it is EUR 223 million more. What's going on then, Mr. Azpiazu? It is simple: that workers pay more, while capital pays less, on the one hand; and, secondly, that consumers pay more, while entrepreneurs pay less. And so, whether you like it or not – I don't know if you will share what I'm saying or not – but, well, our tax system doesn't allow Euskadi to have a fair income, because, in the end, we are always the people on foot who pay more to cover what we think are the black holes we have: on the one hand, the gifts that from the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party were made to the big companies. I don't know if you remember when you said in 2017 that there was room to raise the tax burden on corporate tax; I already tell you that from 2018 to 2019 it is expected to decrease by 3,7 %. And, from humility, Mr Azpiazu, do not turn your attention again to Mr Rementeria, who has already heard that Mr Alonso wants to return to the Christmas gift trail. And, on the other hand, we pay IRPF and we pay VAT so that education, health or social policies can be sustained, because there are some shameless people who don't directly pay what they have to pay, if they pay anything. And it is a mistake that the Basque Government does not do everything – and I repeat, everything in its hand – to force those people to fulfil their duty as citizens. In this sense, from Elkarrekin We have influenced and will continue to influence in two directions that I would like you and your Government to share. The first is to deepen the niches and holes in the system that allow the existence of this tax fraud; and, secondly, to give greater autonomy and democratization to the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud, more than anything, so that it is an efficient instrument with all its potential, since we believe that it is not being so at present. There is no doubt that there is room for progress, Mr Azpiazu, there is room for progress because there are normative possibilities, there are economic resources and there are human resources to improve, but what we see is the political will. So the question is clear, Mr Azpiazu: do you have that political will to move forward in the fight against tax fraud?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u90	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u91	Congresswoman, chief, members of the legislature, all good days. Mr. Bollain, before I answer your interference, I think it will be interesting to mention some precedents, and above all to point out some facts on the prosecutor's fraud, especially to emphasize the importance of this matter to the government and to the disputations. In short, it must also be said that it would be better to introduce this interpelation into the Supreme Council, which would be more reasonable. I am aware, Mr Bollain, of your concern and that of your group on the subject of tax fraud, a concern which I share 100%, and many of the thoughts I also share that tax fraud cannot be given any truce, and we must work from all institutions to eradicate tax fraud. Completely agree. You have, however – and I want to make it as a previous – appealed to a report, to Professor Zubiri, who I know perfectly well, who does not harm fraud at the level of the Autonomous Community either; I say in comparison, because all this is usually in comparison. And it is true that the macroeconomic reports give us global figures that try to get closer to what reality is, but then the reality of fraud is not known, precisely because it is fraud, because, if not, it would be known perfectly. And, therefore, the work that the institutions do – fundamentally, the outlaws – in this sense is a complicated task, it is a task that they have to continue to do with total intensity and that I know that they do so in this way. I say that you are interested in this issue because you have made several requests for information about the evaluations, about the 2014, 2015 and 2016 plans, and, if the data do not fail me, your group has also registered a non-law proposal discussed since September 2018 on the composition and functions of the Tax Fraud Commission. As you know, the normalization of a collaborative strategy against tax fraud in the Basque Country, beyond the direct appeals that the Basque Law on Harmonization, Coordination and Fiscal Collaboration of 1989 made on the phenomenon of tax fraud and its significance, and the actions that the outside parliaments have been carrying out so far, took a letter of a structural nature in the country in the autumn of 2013, when the Basque Parliament adopted several resolutions on the matter, and more specifically, when the Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud in the Basque Country was set up, by agreement of the Tax Coordination Body. I'm also sure you know that since the beginning of the year, the prosecutor's ADD has agreed to six different plans. These plans are supplemented to the plans of every individual foru-gaat to fight or to verify against fraud. They'll evaluate each of these united plans or evaluate to the next year with an integrated year-old tax review on the prosecutor. In fact, in addition to its publication, in order to generate knowledge of most of the past exercises, and at the unique request of the parliamentary groups, institutional representatives of the committee I have mentioned have appeared at this headquarters in order to report on the approved plans and, in turn, on the detailed results obtained from the annual evaluations to which I have referred. Without going any further, a new application for appearance has just been registered, I think by EH Bildu, in relation to the recently approved joint plan for 2019, which will be submitted on time next September. In this context, their questioning is particularly timely in time, as the integrated annual report on tax fraud in the Basque Autonomous Community for 2018 has just been completed, and I hope that it will be forwarded to this Parliament and incorporated into the corresponding websites over the coming week or, at most, to the next week for the necessary transparency and publicity that is desirable and necessary for these types of issues. From this background, and as a first conclusion, in order to be able to respond to your inquiry, I can only say and express my opinion that, as far as the fight against tax fraud is concerned, the Basque institutions responsible for this matter, that is, the Government and the outlaws, have a coherent, joint and well-structured strategy, which is being followed and whose results are tangible day by day. Although, as I have said, the last available report will be made public in an imminent manner, I do not resist, without revealing or stripping the bulk of it, however rather exhaustive, summarizing in two or three sentences its structure, its novelties and some small final comments. In the resolution of the Eusun Act, it is determined that the united plans of the year should be structured, according to which, the plan of 2018, like the former, ranks the actions to be done in three classes: first, actions for information, secondly, prevention actions, and third, regularization and collections. With regard to the area of obtaining information, as an assessment of the 2018 financial year, it should be pointed out that there is a great deal of exchange activity and, in general, increases the volume of data obtained by the foral estates from the various sources of information enabled, which facilitates the detection of inconsistencies in the data declared by the taxpayers and the performance of a good selection of regularisation and collection actions. It is particularly noteworthy that, during 2018, the reception of information with tax significance of international origin, obtained within the framework of agreements and commitments in this field, promoted, in particular, by the European Commission and the OECD, has begun to be normalised. The second type of actions in which the joint plan is structured – preventive actions – are measures of a different nature which try to make it difficult to commit fraud and minimise the risks of fraud. They include from access controls to certain situations of fiscal risk to promotion, good tax practices and awareness and education in civic-tributory values. They are essential in the plan to combat fraud, because their proper implementation will prevent fraudulent actions by tax-debts, ahead of their commission. This is a type of action that is more difficult to assess; many of them do not have an immediate result, but are fundamental to structurally reducing the propensity to fraud and have a direct effect on actions and regularisation of collection. If fraud is prevented, if it is not committed, the allocation of resources for regularization and collection would be unnecessary. The 2018 joint plan again highlighted the two main multi-annual programming projects, included in this area of tax fraud prevention actions: the tax education project, which you know perfectly well, and the Ticket BAI project. I am sure that we shall have a chance to talk about all this again, especially with the extraordinary success of the projects of the tribute. Finally, in the area of regularisation and collection actions – i.e. those aimed at verification and investigation or verification – and, where appropriate, regularisation of the fiscal situation of taxable persons by the management and inspection bodies, as well as in those actions carried out by the collection bodies to obtain payment of the debt, the figure of the uncovered debt depends largely on a random component independent of the level of activity of the services involved in the fight against tax fraud and, moreover, may be affected by the medium-term orientation of certain measures which, when adopted in the specific exercise, may not be exhausted in the same year or even have no impact on it, but which may be projected towards the future. For this reason, a reading of the results with a broader temporal perspective than the strictly annual one has greater significance. However, as you will see and as you will be able to see, Mr Bollain, through the publication of the results, the detection figures of the 2018 plan, as detected and regularizable, are higher than those of the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u92	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u93	Thank you again, ma'am. Eskerrik asko, Azpiazu jauna. The truth is that I thought I was going to put on medals, but I am a little more concerned than I have either, because you have really told me about the committee report, which will soon enter Parliament, and you have read to me the same three axes that already sound to me, because they are the same axes that were brought before. You were talking to me about the temporal perspective, not just taking year by year, and I really think that, if we look at the temporal perspective, if we look at the numbers, I really think it shows us that much remains to be done, and what is more worrying, that is not being done enough, Mr Azpiazu. Therefore, if we look at the evolution of the collection of quotas stopped entering – because I don't say everything collected for fraud, since other aspects and concepts derived from surcharges or fines are also included here – only the quotas stopped entering amounted to 695 million euros in 2017, to 591 million euros in 2016, to 749 million euros in 2015 and to 762 million euros in 2014. And why are we worried about this, Mr. Azpiazu? Well, because we see how a collection recovered from 762 million in 2014 – the first year we have these results from the Commission to fight tax fraud – in 2015 fell by 13 million euros, the collection from 2015 to 2016 fell by another 157 million euros, while the collection recovered in 2017 does not reach 2014 levels and remains 67 million euros below. And it is that the recovery in 2017 does not reach 30% of the disappointment only to the Euskadi administrations, and we believe that there is room for improvement, Mr Azpiazu, and that there is much room for improvement. We are clearly still far from being able to eradicate approximately EUR 2.3 billion per year of estimated fraud in the studies mentioned above, and, "curiously" – and I say it in quotes, because I don't think I catch anyone by surprise – an important part of the collected, if we look at the reports, focuses on corporate tax fraud, being the most fraud-free party in direct taxation. So we can't refuse to raise $1.200 million each year. We think we should go deeper in that route. And why don't we go to work? In the opinion of experts, Mr Azpiazu, a genuinely effective fight against tax fraud can lead to a drop in the submerged economy rate to below 10% of GDP. Less than 10% is not a baladí figure, but it is the submerged economy rate that roughly the most advanced countries have in the fight against tax fraud. And you said we're not so bad, but do you know what this figure is in Euskadi? It's 17,4 %. When you said that there was room for a progressive tax reform and that the fiscal pressure in Euskadi would rise to the richest people, we in this Parliament put forward a proposal for tax reform. However, you have agreed to tax cuts with the People's Party, which has resulted in a reduction in corporate tax revenues and an annual income increase lower than the increase in the Basque economy. For all of us to understand this: while in 2017, before these tax cuts, revenues accounted for 13.8% of GDP, by 2020 these revenues are expected to be only 13.3%, 0.5 percentage points less. What's that supposed to mean? That in 2020 we will raise approximately 400 million euros less than we would raise without this right-wing pact, in which the Socialist Party was a simple stone guest. But, returning to the proposed tax reform presented by Elkarrekin Podemos, one of the fundamental axes for us was the fight against tax fraud. And we were proposing measures that, in a first step, could recover some EUR 500 million more than is currently being done. Do you know, Mr Azpiazu, what would happen if we recovered EUR 500 million more in Euskadi than is currently recovered? So, we would equal the submerged economy figures of the most advanced countries, below 10% of GDP. And, as I said before, we have made no progress, or I would dare to say that we have even receded, and we still have more than EUR 6 billion in tax expenditure, many of which are used to circumvent taxes unjustly, although legalized by you. However, one of the great black holes in the Basque tax system is this, and you continue to overlook it. As you see, Mr Azpiazu, we have put forward proposals to end this scourge – you yourself have said that we have some pending initiative – and I believe that it is in your hand that we sit down and that we can deepen this path, because, so far, we sincerely believe that, unfortunately, not enough has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u95	Mr Bollain, we could talk about taxation, but I think today we are going to talk about tax fraud, which was the question you asked me. Besides, I don't wear medals. Tax fraud must always be approached with humility. I think it is an issue that we all have to work on; we all, of course, have to work together; we all have to fight fraud; and we all have to continue working to meet the goal of reaching 10% that you say, even less. But it's probably gonna cost us, because it's not easy. In all developed countries, it is a task that I believe the countries approach with great seriousness, in many cases, and it also costs them an effort. With this, I believe that tax administrations must be given a margin so that, in fact, with the cooperation of all, we can fight against that scourge of tax fraud. Well, and although I run the risk of being repetitive, as repetitive as the cluster of initiatives that you have undertaken in the Basque Parliament over the last few years in relation to tax fraud and the fight against this issue, which is to be appreciated, which is to be appreciated, I have the personal conviction that the attitude of the outlaws and the public conglomerate with regard to the issue we are dealing with is to be what it should be. The struggle against the prosecutor has a clear preference in the policy of the taxation nowadays, no doubt, between the institutions of the Basques. To conclude this second part of my response to your inquiry, I will give you only a small piece of information and a final reflection in relation to the very first important row in which is the fight against tax fraud in Euskadi in the conscience of the Basque tax administrations, of all. The fact is that the out-of-pocket farms – and this is verifiable – are increasing the number of people employed in tax inspection, in general, and in the fight against tax fraud, in particular, which also brings a clear and clear social message, in relation to the importance that Basque tax administrations attach to the fight against tax fraud. The reflection is more qualitative and refers to the importance we attach to the figure of fraud discovered. Actually, it is not a quantitative issue, it is not a matter of importance; in fact, the ideal is that the discovered and regularizable fraud was zero, after making all efforts, of course. That would mean that we have a society fully aware of everyone's tax obligations, but that does not happen in any case, nor in any country in the world, as you well know, and yet we must fight for that to happen. We are committed to this, both to the outside finances and to the Basque Government itself. Finally, and by answering your question directly, I believe that, of the actions of the outside finances with regard to tax fraud, the results are satisfactory, they are well-oriented, they give results and they convey the necessary seriousness in the sectors to which they are directed. And I say to you: the result you will soon know is better than what you have commented in this rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u96	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "Interrelation of the United States of the Basque Groups of Carmélo Barrojia, a member of the Pogula, a member of the Medical Department, who has established rules for modernization, and calls for the ceremony of 2019, about leaving the Pharmanics of May 14th Presumptions." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u97	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisors, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Murga. Good morning. In relation to this inquiry, we formulated it because we were very drawn to the attention that for the second year in a row the pharmacy offices were excluded from the order of May 14, 2019 of her colleague the councilwoman of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, which was an important order, carried over the years, of support to modernization, to the investment of commercial establishments. I say again, an order that had had its work, its protagonistism during all these years and in which, curiously, something has happened in the last two years. Pharmacies, pharmacy offices, excluded from government support orders for the modernization of commercial establishments, which is logical. The offices, in addition to commercial establishments, are indeed health centres, they are a service of public interest at the service of the citizens, but, in fact, they enjoy these two characteristics, and, moreover, with a high degree of quality, efficiency, efficiency, as we can all see and as shown by their action and performance and their collaboration with the Administration, but above all by their collaboration and their making available to the citizens permanently. In addition, we have to say and we have to observe – and this is an objective question – the important investments that the pharmacy offices, in relation to modernization, computerization, let us not talk about these last few years of the exemplary process of implementing the electronic prescription... In many cases, also computerization, but also robotics, in relation to distribution in marketing pharmacy offices. We have seen how these important investments have become apparent during these years, and in that sense, what I said before the electronic prescription, which was then implemented exemplaryly and which has then been followed by other investments and computer and technological developments that are there. And, indeed, it is a very striking fact that, in an order of the Councillor of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, which regulates and calls for the 2019 financial year – as it previously passed for 2018 – that program of support to the modernization of commercial establishments, in its article 3, that order says "that will not be beneficiaries of the regulated aid in this order the economic activities financed in the following groups". And, among other groups that refer to wholesale or some more specific sale, such as that of cars or others that have very special characteristics, but IAE 6521, Pharmacies: "The retailing of medicines, health products and personal hygiene". That is to say, that this question is outside of what is a commercial activity to use, which is also under the heading of commercial activity, is outside the concern of the Basque Government to implement actions, to improve actions in its commercial activity, which is essentially commercial, in addition to the essentially sanitary – which also – but which are two essential activities that carry out the same business, a pharmacy, therefore, is certainly striking. I could tell myself that the inquiry was made to you and that I should have done it to the Tourism and Trade Advisor... Well, we'll see what happens next. But I do want to know your assessment, your assessment as a health advisor, as head of health services in this country, and in relation to whether you have been able to do something, if you have done something. Why? Let them tell us why the Basque Government is coming out of what has been, moreover, a usual attitude for other years, and this and last year not. That is to say, by assessing as an element and as a commercial centre, or as a commercial establishment, pharmacies, for their professionalism required by law, their timetables, their obligation vis-à-vis citizens who do not have other commercial establishments. That is, they have a commercial plus which, in addition, makes them worthy of a surely special attention. We and many people are drawn to this, especially in these years, and for this second year that this investment aid is excluded. Well, well, they have many characteristics of so many percent, of which elements are those that are invested, in which they cannot be invested, in reforms, or in electronics, or in computer renewal. Many issues that the order itself develops and affect many shops, which benefit many shops – ice cream shops or clothing shops – and pharmacies do not. Well, we don't understand. That is, that being an establishment of commercial interest but of public health interest; in addition, an example of public-private collaboration in relation to its functions, we have to draw your attention, to tell us what you think of this exclusion. Indeed, it seems that pharmacies don't have good news lately. This order of the Basque Government's Trade Adviser and the AIReF document on new proposals he puts on the table seems to be going to wear down the capacities of the pharmacy offices a little bit. In any case, that is another issue that we will be discussing, but we focus on this order of the Basque Government's Trade Adviser. We have to say, moreover, as an element that strengthens the quality, the competition and the possibilities of the pharmacy offices, that in 2018 Spain has the network – and the Basque Country, moreover, is better than the Spanish average – Spain has the largest network of community pharmacies in Europe, above France and Germany. That is, it is a factor to understand that this discrimination you make in relation to the order of support for commercial establishments by the Basque Government, by the Department of Commerce, is even more incredible, being Spain an example of how the offices are developed. In this sense, the Basque Country is better, because, in addition, in relation to the professionalism of commercial establishments through pharmaceutical collegiates, if in Spain the average is 2.4 professionals per establishment, in the Basque Country – the highest figure in Spain – it is 3.3 pharmaceutical professionals per establishment. That is to say, in addition to meeting the requirements in an essential, important, competent, efficient, effective and modernising way, they are excluded from the support of the Basque Government. We don't understand, counselor; we know it's not your strict responsibility, but you can say something here. Of course, from the answer you give us, there will also be another debate. But, in any case, we do want to know that assessment as to why this inexplicable discrimination to the pharmacy offices through the provisions of the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u98	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u99	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, Mr. Barrio. First of all, I must say that the order of assistance you ask is the command of Turism, of commerce, and of the Chief of Constuna, as you know, and perhaps you ought to ask him what reasons it was to exclude the Pharmacies from this order. Anyway, since you're asking about the reasons, I'll answer. Mr Barrio, as you know, asks me about an order of aid from the Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, in particular on the order of 14 May 2019 of the Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, which regulates and convenes for the financial year 2019 the programme of support for the modernization of commercial establishments, an order that was approved in the Governing Council and which has the support of the Basque Government. According to the adviser herself, this aid programme responds to the Strategic Plan for Tourism, Trade and Consumption 2017-2020, which identifies the priority areas to be promoted by the Basque Government in this area, on the basis of the government programme for the 16th parliamentary term. In particular, it responds, in the area of internal trade, to the axis established for the modernisation and rejuvenation of the sector. The objective of this axis is to transform the image and social perception of trade, to professionally prestige it, and to stimulate and accompany its modernization. To this end, programmes are promoted that promote investment in the renovation and modernization of commercial establishments, with criteria of economic viability and strategic coherence with the aforementioned plan. It is, therefore, in this context that we must place the aid order by which I am called upon to do so. These aid orders or programmes usually incorporate a number of modifications and adaptations over time, depending on the circumstances, needs and priorities of each moment, in order to introduce efficiency criteria in the allocation of resources. In this case, the changes proposed by the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption itself respond to the need to prioritize the proximity trade of our neighbourhoods, towns and cities, and the sectors that most support the public needs. There is no doubt, Mr Barrio, that, as a health adviser, I firmly support pharmacies, the great work they do, the value they bring to the health system and the contribution they make to improving people's health and quality of life. You are well aware of the close relationship and collaboration we have with pharmacies. Within the framework of the current pharmacy model based on the role of the community pharmacy and the integration of pharmacy offices, they are one more agent of the health system, in coordination with the rest of the care levels and with social services. But pharmacies respond to other circumstances other than the proximity trade that is being prioritized in the aid order of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs. In addition, as I said, this aid order has undergone some major changes; in particular, in 2018 it incorporated the aid programme for commercial entrepreneurship. This aid programme allows for the incorporation of new players into the Basque commercial sector and enables the sector to be rejuvenated and new models to be introduced in line with a scenario of disruptive change. To equip this programme, which has historically been heavily demanded by the sector, a reallocation of mature programme funds was made, as is the case with the business modernization programme. This reorganization had previously had a process of evaluating the policies of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs. In the case of the business modernization programme, the aid order had not been updated for eight years. It therefore involved a reflection and, as a result, an optimization of resources, which is the responsibility of the Government as managers of these public resources. Behind the decision to exclude pharmacies from the programme of modernization of commercial establishments, there is therefore a need for the reallocation and prioritisation of public resources, so that these are intended for those commercial sectors which have the most objective difficulties for their modernisation or even for their mere survival. In this reorganisation of modernization aid carried out by the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, the common good, aid to the weakest link in the commercial sector and to the one considered that with its activity it can best help the other role it has, which is the creation of networks of citizen support and the articulation of our streets, towns and neighbourhoods. They are aid for modernisation of proximity trade and therefore also exempt from such aid trade located in industrial polygons or in areas of extra-radiation; they are also excluded from the heading not related to what is understood as traditional trade. And, as I said, the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs has felt it necessary to prioritise public aid, so that it can be given to those who need it most, a decision that I deeply respect, from the responsibility that we have for the managers of the public. Moreover, we cannot forget that pharmacies are a regulated sector, an area of economic activity in which the exercise of free market activity or free competition coexists. This makes pharmacies start from different circumstances, different from other sectors of trade that operate fully in the free market. In any case, as I said earlier, the pharmaceutical sector is a key sector for the Department of Health and, therefore, also for the Basque Government, and will always count on our support. This support is reflected, for example, in the various pharmaceutical care programmes, which are the result of collaboration between the Basque Government and the official pharmacy schools and pharmacy offices, including, for example, the following: convention for the treatment with opioids of persons dependent on them, through the pharmacy offices; the convention for the prevention of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases; the convention for the improvement of the use of medication in persons assisted by home help services; or the comprehensive pharmacotherapeutic follow-up programme for chronic and polymedical patients. I would also like to point out that the Department of Health has established annual economic compensation in the case of VEC pharmacies, which are those which, because of their location in areas with a small population, can see their economic viability compromised. In addition, it should be added that in 2010 the Board of Pharmaceuticals of the Basque Country received a direct subsidy of EUR 2 million for the implementation of the electronic prescription in all Basque pharmacies. As you can see, they are all important programmes that are being carried out in close collaboration between the pharmacy offices, the Department of Health and Osakidetza, a collaboration that we will continue to maintain, as we are fully aware of the important role that these entities play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u101	Yes, thank you, President. Well, thank you, counselor. We have already seen you have to move a little to the role of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption Advisor to explain an issue that we do not share with you; that is, you have not given us clear and compelling explanations as to why pharmacies are excluded from an order in connection with the modernisation of commercial establishments. It is something incredible and arbitrary, in that sense, and the explanations you have given us are not convincing, because the fact that a few years ago we had to subsidize and help for the compulsory implementation, by law, by regulation, of the electronic prescription, the whole system that was put in place must be maintained during all these years, and, in the future, improve it, perfect it, as the pharmacies are already doing without your help. But, in that sense, it's amazing, it's amazing that there's that intimate relationship between a health-care facility and the citizenry and that commercial role is excluded from it. It is quite clear that a motion in this regard has never been more relevant to ask this Parliament to reintroduce the pharmacies to the plan, to the aid programmes of the Basque Government in connection with modernisation in the near future. She has explained to us what the Tourism, Commerce and Consumption Advisor has said, but she has not told us whether you are in agreement or not. I know that this is a matter... but I believe that it has an obligation to give confidence, to give confidence to establishments, such as pharmacies, to give confidence, to tell them what guarantees they will have in the future, how the Basque Government will continue to help them, in their also commercial work, together with that of public interest and that of health interest. I believe that you too have received some request, not only from this Member, but from some other collective in that regard, that you need a little more confidence. Lately, they are receiving some bad news from the Basque Government. But, in any case, the pharmacy is excluded because it is necessary to support local businesses. But what is the pharmacy more than a proximity trade? But anyway is the example of proximity trading the overseas, I think it will be more. But the pharmacy? The bakery, Mr Prieto tells me. But the pharmacy? Neighborhood trade? But, well, they also have an obligation to be close; that is, if the Basque Government, the Euskadi Pharmaceutical Ordering Act, forces them to be close to the citizenry. And that's not a proximity trade? It's trembling what you tell me. And it's not a trade? Let's see, it's very clear: the prescription, the medicines that doctors send us to the patients, and that we will buy with our prescription, with our card. But what's with the pharmacy? Apart from the issues that have to do with other issues such as homeopathy and such – discussable – issues such as safe cosmetics, child feeding, personal hygiene, baby care, isn't that a trade? Isn't that a rule-of-the-art trade? Doesn't that have to be protected? It's just that it's incomprehensible. It has been an arbitrary decision by the Councillor for Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs on this subject. I believe that they have been wrong, the Basque Government has been wrong, and, when the Basque Government is wrong, the fundamental thing is to rectify, to rectify, and, in that sense, we are going to ask you, we are going to ask you through the motion that we will put forward in the near future. There are also times when we have to build arguments; it was up to us to update the order, and, as it was up to us to update the order, so we take away the pharmacies. It just doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, Counselor. Because he has explained to us in some role that they will have prepared him in the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption that reallocation, prioritization of public resources. Well, that, that's what we're talking about. Common good, therefore less common good. If something as essential as that, something breaks. And, of course, we have not shared your assessment of this situation; your description, rather than your assessment, because we do ask you to do so in this second part. And the confidence of pharmacies on the part of the Basque Government is being broken, that is, it is being broken, counselor, and there you have to make an analysis, by this order of exclusion and also by the residence decree, which also affects you. That is another issue; we will continue to talk about that issue. But, of course, they've been wrong. Please rectify, and if you say so now, there will be no motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u102	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u103	Barrio jauna, in Euskadi we are pioneers in the field of pharmaceutical care. Since the 1990s, the Basque Government, through the Department of Health and Osakidetza, has been collaborating and working together with the official schools of pharmacists and the pharmacy offices in the development of the pharmaceutical care programmes that I have previously mentioned. They are many years of fruitful collaboration. For 25 years now, we have started this joint journey, and we must look back and remember the harsh social and health circumstances in which certain groups of people lived in the face of the needs that we posed to them from the health system, and there were pharmacies and college representatives, hoisting their shoulders and carrying out a collaboration of high level and degree of difficulty. It is fair that I, like you, acknowledge your important work. But today we come to talk about pharmacies in a very specific context: that of an aid order that is not from the Department of Health. It is true that pharmacies also carry out commercial work, but it is no less true that their situation has little or nothing to do with the small neighbourhood shops, the local shops that are engaged in modernizing and adapting to new social needs or disappearing. In addition, I have to say that the pharmaceutical sector has already had the opportunity to benefit from the aid order that we are dealing with today, as the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs itself has sent me. In fact, it is precisely this sector that has benefited most from the order of aid for the modernisation of commercial establishments before the amendment. I have asked the Department of Sailburu Sonia Pérez for the data of the last call, and I can tell you that of a total of 3,700,000 euros, the pharmacies obtained in 2017 more than 800,000 euros of aid. Frankly, I am very pleased, of course, that this order of aid has been able to benefit this sector, which is strategic for us. But, as I said earlier, the department responsible for trade has done a needs analysis, and if they and all of us as a government have determined that there are other groups and entities that need this type of aid more, it is a decision that must be respected. For our part, we will continue to support the pharmaceutical sector, as we have always done and are doing, from the point of view that pharmaceutical delivery is a key element in achieving greater quality and efficiency in the health system and ensuring its sustainability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The 15th point in the theme list: "These interpelations will be discussed at once: "Interadectition by Ubeka, Ubera Aranz, and EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, concerning judicial inquiry on the Public Acquisition of Osa. "Interadectation, Cristina Macazaga Sáz, together with the members of the Podemus to the head of the Medical Department, "To help justice when it is called "Affinance of the Common-wealth." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u105	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mrs. Murga. "Realre de caras no sirve de nada si no hay un cabio de turumbo en pollicas del Ejecutivo, señora Murga." I don't know if you realize, but if you act like the head section, you'll end up anyway. And, Mrs Murga, as I told you two weeks ago, you have not changed any policies, no management, no direction, or anything in the OPEs of Osakidetza. You follow Mr. Darpón's wake, along with the director of Osakidetza. And if you act the same, it'll end the same. Mrs. Murga, it's in your hands. It is in your power to change the practices which have hitherto been committed, to put an end to injustice, corruption, and all that has hitherto been committed to you. It's your responsibility to clear up the name of the Osaderie and clean it up. It's up to you to put an end to the whole system of threat, fear, dependence, kilentism. I don't know if you're aware, but because you're coming from Darpón's team, your credibility was already small, but you have to trust all people and give them time to see what they do and we've been doing it and we've been doing it and we've been doing it for a while to give you time, give you confidence, show you what you're doing. But as time progresses, you're wasting your credibility. I don't know if you've heard audio before, but I don't know if it's necessary to hear it again. I hesitated about getting audio, but I won't. After I've heard audio, I've been thinking a lot of thoughts and questions, but when you hear audio, it makes me think that you've always known leaks and that the worst thing is that you've done nothing to change them. Look, Mrs. Murga, we could call it normal and it might be natural to say that there are leaks in OPE, it's normal. Moreover, when we know now that everyone knew about it. We found out today that the judge in the brief has added another complaint to 2002. But, knowing this, what's not normal, what's not acceptable is not doing anything when you've arrived at the office you're in, doing nothing to change these practices. That's not normal, and that's not okay. If you'd shown another way, I'd keep quiet. And if you show another way from now on, we'll shut up. But you started acting in the opposite direction, in the same way as your ex-Jefe. Will you change your behavior, Mrs. Murga? Can you switch it? Gainera, Legebiltzar honorara etorri zarenean, gezurra esan duzu, edo finagoa izango naiz eta esango dut hitzak neurtu dituzula. Aurreko kontroleko pleinan, begira zer weretzun zenidan. He told me: "I also remind you that it was the Basque health service itself that sent both the open information files and the conclusions of the internal reports prepared to the Prosecutor's Office and Ararteko." Translated, he said: "We have sent the file and the conclusions that we have drawn and not all the examinations, so that justice will make its investigation and draw its conclusions." Eye, watch out, zuekin nola aritu behar dugun. Mrs Murga, using the irony and playful tone of the government spokesman, that is to collaborate with justice. And when I hear audio, other questions come to my mind. If you were not a member of the tribe, how did you know before the results were made public, what note did Mrs. Obi have? How did you know? And one more question: Why did you know that you, Mme. Obieta, had not had the inquiries before? -Cómo se puede saber quién accede o no a los exámenes? Did you think he'd love you? Esas sonn las dos preguntas que se me ocuren. Well, the audio comes out, and once again, instead of supporting, defending and going by the hand of those who denounce, of those who want to change those practices, that fraudulent course, what you do from the Government is to charge those people in a dirty and traceable way. I think it's about time you apologize to all those professionals and Basque society. It is time for you to recognize the damage caused and it is time for you to take action for non-repetition. Because it has fabric, it has a lot of fabric, because it doesn't qualify it in any other way, one, that the government put in charge of the internal investigation to which it was secretary of the EBB – it is like putting Maroto in the Gürtel, as instructor of the Gürtel – and to which, by the way, he had to resign the last legislature for his mismanagement. And for not commenting and not qualifying his racist manifestations and obstruction of justice. You will agree with me that the instructor has to be independent and politically neutral, and that is not compatible with the instructor being Greaves, because what will prevail will be the interests of the PNV and not know the truth. Two, do not transfer all documentation to justice because it is considered "non-essential". Who decides what is essential or not? Is this performance not prevarication? But it's obvious that, from the way of the Medical Department, you've gone to cover up your goal rather than study at first, Mrs. Murga. And it is clear that some of the facts, with the correct incriminations of the accusation, and the testimony of the Obi, have been determined by you to hide all this, that you have concealed it. What else are you hiding? What else are you hiding besides not cooperating and hindering? What is your plan from now on, Mrs. Murga? What's your plan from now on? What are you going to do? Will you follow Darpón's route? Or would you change your course of beauty? Seriously, it's up to you. It's your choice. Are you really going to solve everything, with everything? Can you tell me what it is, leaving the denials aside? Will you be in charge of aid to justice? Are you ready to put an end to the field of impunity you've established? Will you do it? Yes or no? You wanna figure out what happened? Yes or no? Will the government ever take care of themselves?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u107	Mila esker, president anderea. Good morning, Counselor. Eguerdi on guztioi. A year ago, the OPE leak scandal broke out in Osakidetza. In the course of this year, we, Elkarrekin Podemos, have maintained ourselves in what we said on the first day: in the opposition of hospital specialists in Osakidetza there are leaks to favor a few. However, the government, in which I now include you, has gone through different stages: denying everything; by the way, recycling even the speech of the late Azkuna when he had to explain something similar in this very Parliament in 1996 –"something has happened, but we are being transparent"–. Looking elsewhere, they said they were going to investigate with rigor and transparency and until the end. "Nothing can be concluded," they said, "either that there have been leaks or that there has been none, but we are being transparent. Let's make it look like we're doing it. We repeated four tests and forgot." And the last one: "Well, we present ourselves as an affected part." Look, they believed that everything was going to be like at the time, as in 1996, when Belén Greaves, then a member of the Basque Nationalist group, used the expression that "we will get our hands on it, but not our hands on it", wishing the courts to resolve the decisions that had been detected in that OPE. They were 12 years old to have used that touch of attention, to have been able to put an end to the corruption, and they have not. Yesterday it became clear, moreover, that they are not interested in doing so. "At 12:40, 20 minutes before the second exam, Jules – the president – comes and tells us all: everyone inside. He was distraught, overwhelmed; we saw that he was frankly concerned. There's been a debacle, there's very bad grades, we have a problem. It gives the feeling that, on top of it, there have been a few people with excessively high grades and the rest are suspended. At 15 minutes, the first reaction of the court was to get up, want to dissolve the court and leave," says Ane Martín, one of the members of the evaluating committee. His colleague Mari Carmen Iturricastillo says the same: "The president arrived and said: debacle, debacle! And on top of that, there have been three people who have come up. He began to say the names of HUA." It tells this vowel that, at that time of nervousness and trouble in the court, all the eyes were laid on it, head of anesthesiology service at this center. "I didn't put that test on or saw it," he defends himself. The author, commissioned by the VATP, was his partner Valero, accused today. "Someone from Txago had to have been," Ballesteros abounds about the author of the exam. The Elkarrekin Minutes We may have warned of this, but they did not even want to use it, beyond serving as an excuse to make the proof of this specialty repeat. From the very first moment, we have denounced Osakidetza's opacity in the face of the boasting of transparency that has been shown by different charges of Osakidetza: the previous advisor, yourself and even the lehendakari. Today we continue to denounce this opacity, this cloak that covers everything and that allows a few to preserve their realm of taifas, as we denounced a year ago. We reported at parliamentary level that the Office of the Prosecutor had not been provided with all the information available to enable it to carry out its work in a secure manner, and despite this, it issued a demolition decree. And last week we knew that, in fact, Judge Yolanda Varona had had to make a request to Osakidetza because she had not been provided with the statements of the persons involved or the minutes of the meetings held by the courts, and now, Osakidetza has been forced to deliver the complete material. Written transcripts of statements made by members of the court and opposition in Osakidetza's internal investigation following the leak allegations do not include all the data provided by witnesses. We are checking these days thanks to the publication of the audios of those interviews in the newspaper.es. The Department of Health, at the hands of its highest officials and the Lehendakari himself, has at all times defended that they have collaborated to the fullest in the clarification of the facts and have expressed the desire to get to the bottom. However, the written and edited documents, not the original audios, were handed over to the Office of the Prosecutor. Translations biased because they're incomplete. The superior prosecutor of the Basque Country, Carmen Adán, already expressed in her writing her doubts about the documentation received. Since the statements of the persons concerned and the minutes of the meetings held by the courts were not provided, he requested Osakidetza to forward the complete records of the specialties with the declarations made and all the minutes of the meetings held by the courts. All this confirms that, in fact, it has not been done with transparency, but with the spirit of concealment, and yet they continue to maintain that it has been investigated with transparency and rigour. Today, as on the first day, we maintain that the Government and Osakidetza have carried out a terrible management of the crisis of the doped OPEs with the sole intention of concealing. We have maintained at all times that a change of faces is not enough if there is no clear will on the part of its most responsible to want to end the corrupt model installed in Osakidetza. A model that consists of favoring a few through the filtering of exams, contrary to guaranteeing the equal opportunities that must govern in the access to the civil service, and that many of the interrogations collected in the audios that Osakidetza carried out in his internal investigation come to corroborate. Mrs. Counsellor, last Tuesday a member of your Government indicated that your advisor did not submit all the documentation in her day because her volume is huge, and what was considered to be the most essential was sent. Madam Counselor, in this flash drive there are 4 gigabytes that occupy all the summary that works in power today of the investigating judge. We are not saying that any evidence has been destroyed, although, listening to your fellow government, you might think that excuse not small, accusations manifest. We're saying that not all the information was delivered, and it fit into a flash drive. Every day we get to know different audios, audios like the one that emerges from the investigation of the category of Cardiology and in which the instructor, the former secretary of the EBB Mrs Greaves, interrogates a vocal of the court of Cardiology almost a year ago when his department directed it Mr Darpón. I'm gonna put that audio on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u108	Mrs. Macazaga, there's not PowerPoint and those things...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u109	Well, on other occasions it's been possible. I think you'll have heard it. We do not consider criminal responsibilities, Counselor; we are not judges. And the political responsibilities that could be derived are already going to be seen, but, of course, what the audio contemplates are two things: one, that Dr.Obieta did not approve with help – you told her yourself – and two, that Dr.Obieta has collaborated to end the leaks. Knowing now that you are aware of the corrupt practice of leaking Osakidetza OPEs, we ask you the following question: Mrs. Murga, do you intend to collaborate efficiently with justice in the so-called "Osakidetza OPE Case"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u111	Mr. President, congressmen, chief officers, Mrs. Ubera, Mrs. Macazaga, good morning. I will begin my speech by clarifying a phrase that I am credited with having spoken in an informal conversation 15 years ago. I've never uttered that phrase, not 15 years ago or now. I have never been a part of any court, so I have never participated in the preparation of evidence of access to Osakidetza. I have never participated in appointments or court decisions. The only information I have had access to in relation to the results of the different OPEs has occurred when the lists were made public. I've never had any more information. I've never had knowledge of people who've been involved in any screening of any exams. So, I insist, I never uttered that phrase; I didn't do it 15 years ago or now. I believe in justice and trust that it will resolve the judicial process initiated in relation to the 2016-2017 OPE. I will continue to contribute to the full clarification of this issue. I am convinced that this complete clarification will strengthen the Basque public health system, by and for which I have been working for more than 30 years. As to the words laid in my mouth, I must plainly say: I have never said this phrase; I have never had any information to say it; I never took part in the courts of public offers; I have never known any irregular action. I believe in the difference of choice. A lot of professionals are working in public health every day giving them a quality service. I consider justice. I think it will explain what has to be cleared up, and we will continue to provide all the help we ask for. When they proposed to leave me as a care physician less than three years ago, and especially when I agreed to become a health counselor, I made it fully aware that I could be exposed to unfounded public disqualifications. This week has come true. I've heard the recording I've been mentioned in. It's a very brief reference. You can hear a person who says I said 15 years ago a phrase related to leaks in an OPE. That statement is false. The person making this statement worked 15 years ago as a cardiologist in Balearic Islands. It offers no data, no clues, no evidence. That person got the place in Osakidetza in that OPE 15 years ago. In his statement, he details a casual encounter with me in Mallorca. At that time, I was working as a professional in Osakidetza, an optional specialist in the field, assistant. It was not part of the examining court; it had no knowledge of the EPO, beyond what was published. This person puts a statement in my mouth that seems to remember perfectly. Now, that's all he remembers; he only remembers that phrase he says I said. It offers no data or evidence, no concrete facts about any filtration at that time or any other person. Remember my phrase and don't mention any other names. I say this loud and clear in Parliament: I have not said that sentence. And I can certainly say that, because I've never had any information that would lead me to say something like that. I affirm that because I have never had any knowledge of those facts that I mention. I didn't have that knowledge, I don't have it, I didn't say it and I don't say that phrase. Mrs Ubera, Mrs Macazaga, you are making an inappropriate and malicious use of a phrase that is attributed to me and that I have not said. You contribute to staining Osakidetza's good name, yes. While the training is being conducted, you are publicly prosecuting and condemning public health service professionals and the Department itself. You, with your arguments, are giving credence to an assertion that you have already mentioned in this House, and that is that things like that happened since Francoism. Permanent questioning seems to show a clear objective: to discredit the Basque Government through Osakidetza. The formula they use is to question the honesty of their professionals, especially those who are taking public responsibilities. The formula is all good. It is incomprehensible that the service valued by Basque citizens and which has an accredited prestige outside of Euskadi is subject to this permanent public questioning on their part. Based on the health outcomes of Euskadi, the survival of cancer or cardiovascular diseases or others, I can assure you that people working in the public service are top-level professionals. You pretend to believe that many of these people have accessed their posts fraudulently. And this I strictly deny. But this does not mean that there has been no irregularity during these 35 years. To clarify whether this has happened in the last OPE the courts are working. And if any irregularity has occurred, it will be judged, and appropriate measures will be taken. This is precisely what is happening right now. And, of course, we will continue to collaborate for the full clarification of these facts. We're the first to be interested. The judicial process is open. Justice is focused on investigating any possible irregularity or liability in relation to any action not subject to the norm in the course of the 2016-2017 OPE. The Department of Health and Osakidetza are collaborating with this research, with complete transparency, and providing all the information we have and are asked for, in time and form. Internal research began a year ago at the initiative of Osakidetza and the Department of Health. This internal investigation was conducted with the utmost rigour and strict application of Osakidetza's internal procedure for these cases. In all the categories investigated, members of the reviewing courts were investigated, as well as persons aspiring to the places. All these interviews were recorded by Osakidetza's person in charge of each file. In each of the open files, a record was drawn up which was signed by both parties: an investigator and an interviewee. Each of the files was closed with a report from the investigator. I highlight a very relevant fact below: Osakidetza sent information on his own initiative concerning these internal files to the bodies that were beginning to develop the judicial investigation. At that time, no one asked Osakidetza for anything. The information that was sent to the Office of the Prosecutor was initiated on its own initiative, motu proprio, with the unequivocal intention of facilitating the investigation. From that initial moment on, once the proceedings have been opened, the court has requested to supplement the information that was sent to the Office of the Prosecutor. All requests for information have been answered in time and form, including the recordings to which you refer. All information that has been requested of Osakidetza has been referred to the courts. That's how we've done it; that's how we're going to keep doing it. I insist: maximum collaboration and maximum interest in the complete clarification of the facts. You too have had access to consult all available information. Our commitment to transparency is full. The Department of Health and Osakidetza have done everything in their power to collaborate and complete this OPE with all guarantees. And we're gonna keep doing it. Membership from the beginning has taken responsibility and commitment. Membership has taken upon itself this commitment: To lead the investigation to the end, and to execute it with a firm offer of public employment. Membership has also made its responsibility for eupscal health system and its value. In looking into the future, Osacides has also taken over the engagement to improve the system. I'm done. Osakidetza's medical specialists and professionals deserve all respect. They have been prepared and acceded to their posts for merit and capacity. I do not deny the possibility that this might not have been the case in any case, although I have never had any record of it. And to determine whether this has been the case in this latest OPE are the courts, with which we collaborate and will continue to collaborate with transparency. Justice is acting. I only ask to preserve the presumption of innocence of the people, and not to disturb the good name of them and of Osakidetza, who continues to provide every day a first-class service of quality to the whole of Basque citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u113	I've got five minutes. I don't know if I'll have a chance to answer in five minutes, but I'm going to ask for a release to talk more calmly, and you'll have a moment too, Mrs. Murga, Mrs. I don't know if you believe your lies, but what I have is that you want to make a lie to society. I'm very clear what your goal is, because I've seen it clearly today. It's a pity, it's sad, it's sad, but you're in the defensive, and there's no change. We've had a change of face, but there's no change of behavior from Darpón and you. Maybe we were stupid, we were stupid, knowing you were coming from the same equipment. You see, from the very beginning you have been in the defensive; you have denied reality and continue to deny it; instead of accepting reality, you justify reality, but you never accept reality. Never. And you don't make a single effort to change reality. You're all Muds. You're all Muds. Look, here is data, initiatives, measurements, politics, what we need, not words. And there you said: "In the parliamentary sepde, I say here, I affirm it to be a lie." No sinetsiko said, Murga anderea? Orientated by her, gezurra isan zenidan. No sinetsiko said, even if it is the parliamentary seat? Messiness. I'll believe you when you change direction, when you change politics, change the model of management, and when you really show me you want to solve things, you want to come to the end, you want to know the truth, you want to fix things, and then I'll believe you. And I'll believe you, when you really show me that you want to put an end to this clitent network of actions, that you want to put an end to it; then I'll believe you. Deme razones, más que razones, deme haens, please. Give me the initiative, the political measures, what you really want me to believe and see. Gobernuk bozeramaileak ere esan zuen, éta gaur zuk ere berretsi dituzu haren hitzak: "We admit that the investigation was serious, rigorous and correctly raised". So, if they're so good, why didn't they transfer all the information to justice? Why were they so cowardly and at the same time so powerless? Why? Why are they so cowardly and at the same time so powerless? Zergatik? Zergatik zerte? Zeren, benetan ausartak izango bazinete, humilagoak izango bazinete, egingo zenuketena zen benetan egoerari aurre egin, onartu irreality eta irreality eraldatzen saiatu; bathe hours ez duzue egiten, hours da ez duzuena egiten. I don't know if you understand me – I think you don't – when we say you've lost all credibility. How do you want us to create it, for example, as seen, when the government spokesman says that no documentation has been destroyed? When everything you've been saying we've already found that it's been a lie, and that it's a lie with data. Because you all ask for data, data, evidence... And here's the data you're going to put on the table when you're there, and when we put the evidence and the data, what do you do? As in today, wooded, wooded the rest, health professionals, teams, operators, unions, that's your goal. And today, too, you came with a purpose, you came with a purpose: and this is not a question of credibility, but of truth. And again do you question the names of the professionals who put charges on them, and you question them. And give me one reason for believing and not believing you, and give me one reason with facts and proofs. Then I'll believe you. Meanwhile, I'll believe those who put evidence on it. For hitherto you have not shown any other conduct, nor have you shown it. And, look, you know when I'm gonna believe you, Mrs. Murga, do you know when I'm gonna believe you? When you will truly co-operate with justice, when you will help justice, and when you will spend all the information, all the memory of the machinery which conducts examinations, and then I will believe you. When you allow him to insist, I'll believe you. But when you're still looking as if you were hurt, the manager, Telita. And I'm really gonna believe you when you let the rest of the world fall apart.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your time is up. Mrs. Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u115	Mila esker, president anderea. Mrs. Murga, I didn't ask you for accountability. I asked you a question. Do you intend to cooperate efficiently with justice in the so-called "Osakidetza case of the EPAs"? Because it hasn't been seen so far. He's chosen to defend himself by attacking; that's all we've seen all this time. Look, Counselor, you have no more excuses, no more pretexts and no more wilds for transparency and those campaigns to attack the Government, because that is not the case and no one believes it. We only missed the popcorn at this time when every step they took was more clumsy than the previous one. They underestimated the citizen participation that I mentioned yesterday in collaborating in cases of corruption. There are people in fear who will never speak, and that is what you are already in charge of voting against laws like yesterday. But they don't count on brave people who won't shut up and who will defend the common good. Thanks to Rober, thanks to Marta, thanks to Manuel and also thanks to Izaskun Obieta. And they're getting more and more. See the complaints that are being incorporated into the summary thanks to citizen cooperation, complaint of the Urology test which describes how the examinations were passed to those elected at the home of the author of the examination. "Galdakao's poaching", with this term, was already described in 2002 the fact that the author of the Digestive exam and today imputed benefited already at that time his hospital companions. Plastic surgery. The judge admitted to the proceedings a detailed complaint referring to offences of prevarication and infidelity in the custody of the public document. One member of the court asked for the evidence to be repeated in the light of the fact that something strange had happened, and Osakidetza filed a case. Their mouths have been filled with transparency and rigour in the investigation, and we hear audios in which it is concluded that in Angiologia there was more concern about the leaking of complaints, the leaking of the exams, than the punch itself, and there were not even records of these suspicions. In Cardiology, a member of the court was reprimanded for making statements to the media. In Anesthesia, there was an attempt to bring the three complainants to the Office of the Prosecutor for attempted fraud. And for that purpose, the investigation and interrogations were carried out, Mrs. Murga. The chief of the three anesthesiologists was questioned, and the instructor didn't even know she was an opponent. In Digestive, the author of the examination had to be interrogated for a second time because the instructor learned from the press that he was the author of the examination. Mrs Greaves, Cardiology instructor, said she wanted it to be resolved internally. The rigour of your interrogations, moreover, comes to the point of finding us a conversation like: "–Are you Peruvian? - Yes. - And you live in Peru? - No, no, no, no. - Don't you? I mean, he lives here now, but does his family live in Peru? "Yes." Well, Mrs. Greaves said, "You're an immigrant here with gallons, but I mean you've come to study here and you've stayed." At the moment, talking about family separation reminds Trump, but this is not the case. This is the rigour, ma'am, of the investigation that Osakidetza has done, of his interrogations and of those who have put as instructors to develop them. I understand the difficulty you have of accepting the leaks and that these were vox populi, but, now that we know you know and that statements of different audios prove it, I ask you will. I ask you to change the corrupt system and refuse to cover it up more. Because it is obvious that whoever has something to hide will never work to clarify everything about doped OPEs. Do you have anything to hide, Mrs. Murga? Be brave and don't look elsewhere too. Meanwhile, we will continue to listen to audios, and their credibility is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u117	Mrs. Ubera, Mrs. Macazaga. As far as direct questions are concerned, I have nothing to hide, neither now nor 15 years ago, nor 30 years ago I started in Osakidetza. I've never had anything to hide. You prefer to continue questioning and denouncing the public health service and some professionals. Yeah. All your argument, in this case the one you're directing towards me, is based on something someone says I said 15 years ago. I don't know how to tell you more clearly: I didn't tell you. Proof of how weak your arguments are, now you put this as a flag. I have always defended a public health service with equal opportunities in the access of professionals, and this is known to everyone who has worked or met me. I have always defended this form of access with equal opportunities, in Health and in everything, of course. In any case, the question I ask myself is, what does this come to after 15 years? Why did a person who attached such importance to this subject and who knew leaks wait 15 years to report it, to say that I knew this? Your intention, for me, is obvious, but my intention is also clear. I am not prejudging the existence or not of irregularities in the 2016-2017 OPE; that is what the courts are for, which I fully trust. The Department of Health and Osakidetza are collaborating with this research, both on their own initiative and in everything they ask of us. My goal as advisor is to complete this OPE with all the guarantees and make Osakidetza stronger. This is my intention for which I am asked, and a new model of public offer of employment that continues to allow us to have the best professionals and professionals. They're not words; they're facts. The information Osakidetza sent to the courts I want to insist that it was an initial documentation. It was sent on its own initiative; no one had asked for anything. Information from the internal investigation was sent to contribute to the clarification of the facts as it was being obtained; it was made, at that time, almost a year ago, on three occasions: 18 July, 26 July and 21 September 2018. There is no doubt that all this information has been used as a basis for opening an instruction in the court number 2 of Vitoria-Gasteiz. There is also no doubt that when the judge has requested to expand the information that Osakidetza had sent, it has always been forwarded in time and form. I knew existence as you do, and everything you have required has been sent. Once the judge had analysed in detail the initial information sent to her, as I said, several times, she asked us to expand it twice. We did so; the first time, the 8th of January, and the second, the 11th of April this year. In both cases, we have acted with absolute speed, transparency and sending all the requested information. The Department of Health and Osakidetza will continue with facts, collaborating with justice, sending all the documentation we are asked for, because we believe in justice and we want the process to be resolved to complete the OPE and to have all the guarantees of equal opportunities for those who have presented themselves. It is not just the continuous, daily contempt and questioning to which you are subjecting yourself to the processes of selection and provision in general, and to any action carried out by Osakidetza. With regard to the instructors of the internal reports that were made, in particular you have pointed out Belén Greaves. This person is an official of the Basque Administration. This instruction was carried out by her and seven other instructors. They carried out the work and did so in the strict exercise of their functions, and all that material is in the Office of the Prosecutor. It's not fair a parallel public trial. You use everything for it, because for you everything is worth it. Neither the Department nor Osakidetza nor the Counsellor have anything to hide from the judicial process that has been initiated. People who work in the public health service are proud to have successfully completed their studies; in those cases, they have completed their specialty and obtained a place in Osakidetza on their own merits and abilities. Those responsible for the units and services, and more importantly, patients appreciate their professionals for their work and performance, being the professionals themselves the first ones who are satisfied with the job well done. Osakidetza is a well-valued public service, both inside and outside of Euskadi. It is because for more than three decades it has had the best professionals, who have agreed to carry out OPE; people committed to public health and a quality service who want to continue improving. I reiterate in this House the will of Osakidetza and the Department of Health to continue to work with justice, bringing all resources to our fingertips, and I also insist on my commitment to continue working to improve future OPEs. All investigation, deep, objective, and transparent. Don't hesitate: We'll keep doing it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The 16th point in the theme list: "Ask me, Juan Uria Serrana, the law student of the Podemos to the head of the health department, a supposed concluded contract between the Cross-relation of Psychocial care and the Medical Department." Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u119	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, counselors, counselors, colleagues and companions. We should put a little more time between one question and another, so as not to be so dense in the speeches in this Parliament. My question is simple, Counselor. 40 years ago the Psychosocial Module of Cruces began its journey, the humble Psychosocial Module of Cruces Barakaldo, which in 2018 has treated 900 people, practically. Inhabitants of Lutxana, Retorto, Burceña have been assisted by the module. In contact with the territorial management of the Department of Health in Bizkaia, they have been informed that the concert, the financing agreement with the center, is concluded after 40 years. Is this true?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u120	Thank you, Mr. Uria. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u121	Mr. President, members of the legislature, Mr. Uria, good noon to all. The Psychosocial Assistance Module of Cruces is a social initiative that deserves the respect and recognition of the Department of Health. However, we are faced with a contract with a private entity that has come to an end and that is improbable, having reached the legal maximum of 5 years. I would also like to make it clear that no one will be spared the service, but that from now on it will be offered with Osakidetza's own resources. Thus, the citizenship that had been served by the Cross Psychosocial Assistance Module becomes available to the rest of the citizens of Bizkaia. The new care provided by the Osakidetza public network, with the resulting new location and organization of the service, does not mean a setback, but an improvement in the mental health care of this population and a responsible and efficient use of public resources, which is also our responsibility. The Psycholic support module and services that are given in it are worth our wide approval. But, to say that, I must tell you that the Medical Department has no chance of renewing that contract. It's illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Mr. Uria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u123	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea, compañeros and compañeras. You know, Counselor, that it is not possible what you propose. There are several questions we have to ask ourselves: what does the module do? Is it necessary what you do or is it a whim? Does Osakidetza do it in Barakaldo? Well, that's three questions we'd have to agree on. What's the module doing? The module provides psychiatric care for adults, especially cases of alcoholism and non-opiate drug addictions; children's care programme, especially adolescents with antisocial behaviours; care programme for women victims of abuse, with a programme of care for gender-based violence; a programme of care for elderly at risk, in consultation and at home; a therapeutic follow-up programme; a programme of care for therapeutic groups; a programme of specialized care for immigrants; a programme of specialized care for persons with disabilities; programmes of psychopharmacological and therapeutic intervention in ludopathy. Is it necessary? Well, it seems that in Barakaldo it is necessary and in the Left Margin it is necessary. Then we'll comment on some data. Does this the mental health center of Barakaldo or the juvenile service of Barakaldo? Obviously not. But it's not a rhetoric I can think of. It is known that one of the major gaps in the care processes offered by the various centres in Osakidetza is the psychosocial approach to health problems; it is the use of continued therapeutic groups in treatment; or it is the priority of vulnerable groups as the subject of care, such as abused women, disabled women and people with disabilities, the elderly and their loneliness, immigrants and people at higher social risk. It's not that the CSMs, the mental health centers, of Osakidetza don't want to do it; they can't do it. Many professionals, many friends and friends would be very interested in doing such activities. They can't do it. We don't know about any module audit in 40 years that the Department of Health has done. We do not know any assessment, either qualitative or quantitative, of the activities it does. What criteria are used then? Bureaucratic criteria, administrative criteria. What are we talking about, saving 153,000 euros? In Ezkerraldea, the Left Margin? Decrease social investment policies in the Left Margin? Is that what we're talking about? Yesterday we talked about 15 million, 153,000 euros. The most punished for the unemployment rate; the most punished for the number of long-term unemployed; the highest number of persons receiving GIR; and the 65-year-old percentage, 23% of the elderly in Bizkaia and the Autonomous Community. Who made this decision? What purpose is this? Why do we cut the social policies that have some success, 900 people covered, in a piece of Barakaldo? All in Barakaldo City Hall, both in socialist and nationalist times, have supported the module. In 2013, the entire Parliament unanimously supported its continuity, all trade unions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u124	Thank you, Mr. Uria. Your time is up. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u125	Mr. Uria. We are talking about not committing an illegality by claiming to exceed the legal maximum established for public service management contracts; in addition to this fact, that, contrary to your own speech and the party's speech you represent, you intend to convince us that privatization, as you like to call it, is in this case the best option. In addition, you said in your question that there is no evaluation, audit or evaluation of the module's activities. All public service management contracts involve monitoring and control; also in this case, due documentation has been provided: activity reports, with the various programmes offered; human resources; budgets; activity data, etc. And I insist: the Psychosocial Assistance Module of Cruces deserves all our respect and recognition. However, Osakidetza and the Department of Health have an obligation to always provide the best possible care for all patients, and with equity. Continuous improvement must be and is our objective, also in this case, and the decision taken responds to a number of well-founded reasons. Osakidetza's assumption of this service responds to a need to comply with the law in the contractual field, as it cannot otherwise be. It is consistent with our commitment to the public system, and we will also count on those professionals who want to respond to these needs, so that, with an organization, planning and management of the structure, we can achieve a significant improvement in mental health care for this population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpologium, the members of the Basque Team of Carmélo Barrius Barroja, made for Cultura and the head of the political department of Language, the state of the program in the Kultura district." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u127	Thank you, President. Counsellor, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Okay, let's change the plan. Let's talk about culture and cultural projects and cultural policies. Because I think it's good that we talk about documents that on the table and on paper were designed to make a development of culture in this country and that have had a walk, which is a good time to analyze, through an inquiry to the Councillor of Culture and Linguistic Policy. A little over two years have passed since the appearance before the Committee on Culture of the explanation of Mr Zupiria's plans for the current parliamentary term in cultural matters. And there he had a special protagonistism, because he has to have it, in fact, in the continuity of the previous plans of culture, of the Plan of Culture and of the Citizen's Contract of Culture previous, Kultura Auzolanean, which was what was launched in the previous legislature. And, in the words of the counselor also in that appearance, it was where we had to continue, and it is a good time then for this analysis. And, for that very reason, it is essentially an informational inquiry: to know a little what are the characteristics of the evolution of that Culture Plan, of that Kultura Auzolanean called so and which has the protagonistism that the Basque Government itself gave it in the previous legislature and has wanted to continue giving it in this one. And we have to recode, logically, what Kultura Auzolanean is: it was an instrument to agree between public and private agents the strategic vision, the criteria of action, the priorities for the whole Basque culture; it was, but it has a vocation to remain so. The agreement, the consensus, the institutional collaboration, between the different cultural sectors, as key elements for this development, for this cultural position, and how we understand and can understand – and it is normal – how from the public institutions is favoring the development of all these projects and of the key elements of management in the Basque Autonomous Community. They were there; there were many people who participated. Some projects were successful; others were less successful. In short, there it is. And, in that sense, in addition to the background, there was that work that we saw starting in June 2013, but, well, we understand that it has been evolving over time. It is a good time then to know where we are and what we can contribute and what the Department of Culture and the advisor can tell us about how we are, how this Kultura Auzolanean project has been developed. Well, looking at and seeing the information the government itself gives through the page, we've seen how there are projects that qualify as closed, many. There are other open, there are others... That's why we need to see a little bit of where we've been. During all these years, questions of very different characteristics have been touched upon, since the very operation, the very conception to which the advisor also referred in his initial appearance of the Basque Observatory of Culture, as an element in which we had to reflect, that we had to see some questions, going through the creation factories, fiscal policies, the offer of models and financing routes, another series of very concrete questions – Kulturklik, the cinema in Basque, the dance archive –, issues that had to do with the book, with the creation of the Music Office, with the theme of the subventional map in the field of theatre, with strategic reflections on the current situation, with another series of questions that... For example, some of which must also continue to develop at this time, because the law of documents and archives was discussed at that time. That law couldn't have been. It was brought to Parliament; it had to be withdrawn. Of course, it has to follow a development, because this law is intended to enter this Parliament. That is, that this Culture Plan had concrete objectives: the digital library, the Basque public reading network, the network of museums, what had to do with the Cultural Heritage Law – well, we have seen that it had and has had its materialization –, another number of issues such as the participation and presence of women in culture, map of spaces for creation, support for the dissemination of other types of projects on Basque culture, the Basque language. Indeed, this was done; they are closed projects. But, well, they have also had to have a development, an evolution all those projects that were described as open, in the same way as those plans to promote reading; or rethink the sectoral articulation; the presence of culture in the media; the map of cartography of spaces for creation of the Basque Autonomous Community; gender policies and programmes in museums, in art centres; the working conditions of the creators... These are elements that are the basis, and some that will surely be able to expose or present them by the advisor himself in relation to what his projects are, the development of them and the possibilities. And there will be more proposals, especially based on experience, and there will be more projects. There is no doubt, because, in fact, Mr Zupiria highlighted in the appearance of presentation of the strategic lines of the legislature that is being done through the Kultura Auzolanean program, what we call the Basque Culture Plan. Although he acknowledged – and he said so at the time – that what this plan has entailed is being assessed, and that they remain convinced of the need for a plan that articulates the spaces for collaboration, coordination, co-responsibility of the actors involved, but continuity is not enough, and he acknowledged that some changes need to be addressed. And indeed, for some will have been made. That's why I think it's a good time to talk about that Culture Plan after a little over two years. He said that from the Department he led they were betting to continue with the idea of a limited number of issues to be addressed in Kultura Auzolanean, although to improve its effectiveness and impact on the realities of their cultural policies. Well, then, we want to know during this time how this issue has materialized. He was, of course, talking about another series of issues, which some had also reflected in the Kultura Auzolanean plan, the Basque Observatory of Culture, in which he said... or, for example, the Basque Council of Culture, where a deep reflection was required, changes also in the activity of the Basque Observatory of Culture, for everything, in order to try to design a valorization of culture. That is, those are the issues that concern us. That is why what we are asking the Councillor to tell us about this issue in this inquiry, to tell us what the Basque Government intends to do in relation to the development of the Kultura Auzolanean plan for what is left of this Parliament, and, above all, given what it can be, or analysing it too, assessing what the balance of changes, reflections, continuity of what he was talking about in his presentation in relation to projects with the cultural realities of this country can be. And, in that sense, we will be attentive to what he says, because I believe that there are times when we do not talk so much about the continent, Kultura Auzolanean, or we do not hear so much today, but we understand that it will have content and will have a development, which we want to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u128	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u129	Mr. President, members of the government, members of the legislature, Mr. Barri. Indeed, Mr Barrio, both in our first appearance before the Committee on Culture of this Parliament at the beginning of the parliamentary term and in subsequent appearances, I referred to the Kultura Auzolanean plan, a common culture, as the framework of work and collaboration in which we intended to defend relevant aspects of Basque public policies in the field of culture. Kultura Auzolanean is, first of all, a model of relationship with other public institutions and social and private actors in the field of culture. And it is also an agreed work programme that prioritizes projects and sets tasks within a collaborative framework. In the more than two years since that first appearance, we have endeavoured to strengthen a model of governance that attaches basic importance to joint work, both with the other public institutions of our Community also competent in the field of culture and with representatives of the different sectors that make possible the cultural activity of our country. Kultura Auzolanean is therefore the demand for joint work or shared governance. In this first scene, we were engaged to take precise steps, and informed ourselves that we were to work in these parts, and thus we expressed in words: "First we will structure the permanent coordination of institutions. Second, in the region of Cultural Neighborhood, we will proceed to the second period of dynamics, all the organizations to work with all the sectors of culture and to work around the most detailed concerns and concerns. Thirdly, The workings of observation shall be agreed amongst the rest, as we said, before the decision of those who were made by the policy of knowledge. And four, we'll increase cooperation and improve co-ordination in fun with agents and agents." I will point out the development of these commitments then. First commitment: institutional coordination. HAKOBA. The first commitment concerned the setting up of an inter-agency forum to bring together representatives of the Government's Department of Culture, the three outlaws, the municipalities of the three capitals and Eudel. In accordance with that commitment, we have set up a forum that we call Kulturaren HAKOBA, the Forum for the Coordination of Public Administrations in the field of culture, and we have done so in accordance with the model that already existed in the field of language policy, which has worked satisfactorily so far. This informal forum has enabled representatives of the different Basque public administrations to analyse cultural proposals and initiatives, and, once agreed, to propose them to the members of the Basque Council of Culture-Kulturaren Euskal Kontseilua. HAKOBA is no substitute for any other forum, and it seems to us to be a good tool for the different institutions to coordinate our public policies on culture. Second compromise: Basque Council of Culture. In any case, the launch of HAKOBA does not leave any role or power to the Basque Council of Culture, which remains the main forum in which public administrations present and debate with representatives of the cultural sphere. In it we present our policies, in it we report on our activity and there we agree on the relevant initiatives. It is not a body of representation designed for decision-making or cultural management, it has not collided with any other institution, and we give it a primary value as a space for reflection, as a space for presenting proposals, for conducting debates and for reaching and defining consensus. Third point: sectoral representation. In this Basque Council of Culture we have proposed another of the objectives linked to Kultura Auzolanean, such as to open a debate on representation or dialogue with the different sectoral associations with the aim of speeding up the relationship with them and speeding up decision-making. We have raised this because we believe that the current situation, in our view, suffers from excessive fragmentation, too sectoral a vision at a time when the cross-cutting and cross-cutting are becoming increasingly important. We have taken this approach to the meetings of the Basque Council for Culture, and we have also raised it in the bilateral relationship we have with the different associations we have identified in our world of culture. It is not a simple issue, but I think we all share the need for reflection. The definition of interlocutors is not up to the Government; it is specific to each sector, and we are on it. Fourth point: Basque Observatory of Culture. The fourth axis we propose as the tractor axis of the Kultura Auzolanean program is the activity of the Basque Observatory of Culture-Kulturaren Euskal Behatokia. Both Behatokia, created in 2004 as a proposal of the Basque Plan of Culture, and the analyses and works that the Observatory has so far developed have become an essential tool for the knowledge and monitoring of cultural activity and its evolution in the Basque Autonomous Community, as well as a basis for the realization of sectoral strategic plans and situation studies. For this legislature, the two areas of improvement that we had proposed have been defined. First, aware that the observatory attached to the Directorate for the Promotion of Culture had narrowed its scope of analysis to activities of creation, promotion and cultural consumption, we proposed to extend its activity also to heritage policies. Secondly, we propose that the Observatory expand its scope of analysis and add to the analysis of cultural policies and heritage the world of creative industries. Next, I will tell you the most remarkable work that has been done and published by the observation of these years. 11 jobs were published in 2017. On the one hand there are annual statistics, but on the other it was proposed to do more precise projects to make it a better examination. Here, among those 11s, the "Museas and Collections," and "Explain and understand," about the decade of Euskal Cultura's observation. That year, too, we studied the example of this program called "stopments" or "Residitys," and made the map of artistic stay in the Eska Autonomia Er memberia. In the year 2018, 11 other plans or jobs were published. I would mention, among these 11s, the "Cultural Customs" panel, the analysis of the employment of Esquimenia in the Elegan World, and of the employment of the culture, of the year 2016, a statistical report on the network, a model of cultures, of the Eulegics of Cultural in relation to international members or to similar institutions; and a more theoretical work about the public value of culture. It was done for the first time, like the eleventh work, a concept of the limitation of culture and of creative industry and a study of its definition. In the year 2019, I would mention "Cultural and suffering" and "Cultural internationalization of Cultural." In 2019, we're working on four or five other projects that will be ready for the end of the year. In the end, I would be left to examine or comment on the projects which have been worked in the Cultura neighborhood. The principal areas we have cultivated are, on the one hand, the internationalization of Euclid's culture; the second, the reorganization of the sectors; the third, the genus, and the genus-difference; the fourth, the pursuit of new examinations and publics about new publics; and, like the fifth, the view of "Cultural Visions in the Expensions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u130	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u131	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. And I, very briefly, because I believe that you have informed us of what we wanted, that you are considering this development on the basis of that initial approach to the objectives of the legislature. And, indeed, you were talking, at that time, about reflection, and you were talking about some changes, and you were talking about that continuity had to be alternated with those changes and those new possibilities, because we had also identified some of those that you just told us in the possibilities for further work. And indeed, everything that has to do with HAKOBA, the Basque Council of Culture, the Observatory, that sectoral representation, or some analysis of the work and fragmentation of the sector, etc. are elements that I believe deserve this first reflection that we ask for and thank you for, but also a document. I think we need a species... At times, documents cause issues to be rearranged and better understood and not to be dispersed much. I believe that we will bring, in order to agree with the parliamentary groups, a motion, as a result of this inquiry, to this House, so that we can talk about bringing some sort of balance sheet or memory, but at the same time that black definition of the objectives, of the projects, of the steps of the projects being carried out. That is, that second phase of Kultura Auzolanean that you were talking about, because in those concrete steps to which you referred, of that permanent fund of coordination of the second epoch of culture – you said yourself: second epoch of Kultura Auzolanean – in agreeing lines of the Observatory, strengthening cooperation and coordination in the government itself. I think it is good too, and apart from everything that has to do with complicated relations – or complex, rather than complicated – with the sector, I think it is good, in the same way that we had in its first phase a document, simple but clear, in relation to the lines or projects that were going to be addressed over the years, I also think it is good that we re-edit, that we take up, in some way, the possibility of having a living document, because, seeing that it was necessary to reflect on sectoral representation and its fragmentation, and how these channels of communication and participation have to be taken up again, I think it is true that this document of follow-up to the Auzolanean plan, in what you have mentioned as this second epoch, is something we need, because we also need to know what projects are in portfolio. In culture it can be said that planning is also strategic, and cultural policy, linked precisely to the contact that is being made, both institutionally with other representatives of cultural policies and the sector, with such a heterogeneous sector, so diverse, so complex, but so important too, I think it is good that we can dispose of it in the time that is deemed appropriate. And you talked about, for example, you said, "In 2019 we have four or five projects by the end of the year." Well, well, as far as we know and we can put it together, we can have that document from there. Because it will also be good for us in this legislature to see how the Kultura Auzolanean plan has worked in its second phase, so that we can have a portfolio too, or in the thought of the political possibility, how it will be relaunched towards the future, which I believe is what is needed. So, constructively, Mr. Counsellor, and from this point on, we will ask the government – I don't know what it will look like to you – to concretely or to value in a document to this House, or to the Committee on Culture and Linguistic Policy, this second phase of the Kultura Auzolan plan, with the characteristics of which I am speaking to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u133	President Andrea, Mr Barrio. I believe that we would have no difficulty in drawing up a sort of relationship, or script, of different documents that have been drawn up so far and of others that can be produced in the coming months until the end of the legislature. I also believe that it would not be good for the Government to be asked to draw up documents that must be the result of agreement and consensus with representatives of the cultural sectors participating in the Basque Council for Culture. For our part, as a department, as far as government action is concerned, we are committed to presenting to the Governing Council, before the summer, a strategic plan, called Kultura 2019-2022, which sets out the strategic lines of action that we as a government have to develop and promote in the different areas of our competence. That's up to us. The other documents, which we could add to that list, some of them have to do with the ordinary or extraordinary activity of the Basque Observatory of Culture, which normally also establishes its work plan according to the requests it receives from the Basque Council of Culture itself; and there are other documents that should be the result of the work that the institutions carry out with the different representatives of the cultural sector within the Basque Council of Culture. For example, you have made reference – I have also made it – to how we can reorder sectoral representation. It is not simply a question of identifying new partners, or of organising new contacts; it is also a question of defining, in collaboration with them, which strategic projects should be covered by this new representation. So, for your information, I can point out to you, for example, that, in the field of performing arts, it is considered that the sectoral representation that currently exists may be the appropriate one, and the next step would be the elaboration of proposals for work by the representatives of the sectors themselves, in collaboration with the administrations, in the field of training, in the field of communication and innovation, in the field of their international presence and in the field of the visibility of the sector. Each of these works is more or less defined, and should produce a design and development project. We could say another one about the editorial field, which proposes its management and representation in another way, which wants to focus its reflection on the areas of internationalization, visibility and the impulse to the internal markets, to the internal fairs; or Musika Bulegoa, which was a result of the reflection that took place in the previous legislature, and which in this one is about to culminate in a fusion project as a single organization. I would like to tell you that, if you think it is interesting, we can carry out this relationship of projects which could be the result of this reflection of these years, but I think it would also be important to have the sectoral representatives themselves. At the Basque Council of Culture there are five representatives appointed on the proposal of the different parliamentary groups in this Parliament. You also have there a way to find communication and a relationship with that Basque Council of Culture. And, well, I am waiting for your motion, and that we can agree and incorporate into it the relationships of projects and works that seem to us all interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u134	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Edurne García problememæ, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos to the Chief of Cultura and Language, concerning the 17th of May, 2019 of the Tubalum, not keeping the hopes of the Finnal Four 2019." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u135	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Zupiria. Since the beginning of the Final Four recruitment, there has been controversy; first, because the Government preferred not to attend to technical reports, which already warned that recruitment through a convention had legal deficiencies and breaches; second, because the Government preferred to look elsewhere when it learned that specialized volunteering was requested without any financial remuneration for its work. The result of this whole sequence of irresponsibilitys on the part of those who rule in public institutions has had serious consequences for the city and its tourist image: hotels and accommodation with abusive prices, which has prevented them from hanging up the full sign and has caused most visitors to stay in the surrounding cities; a fan zone installed in the center of the city, with much less than expected assistance, which has had a very negative impact on the area's hospitality. The Final Four of the PNV and the PES can only be called a failure due to the mismanagement and programming of the event. The big events can be positive for Vitoria-Gasteiz if they are managed in an appropriate way and if they return to local citizenship and economy. On the other hand, the Final Four has been exemplified as a great event that is managed only for the benefit of a few, while the basic needs of the people remain unmet. The Basque Government is responsible, as it invested 1.5 million euros in the Final Four, an unacceptable public money given the bad organization and tourism management of the event. In view of this situation, what measures will you take from your department, Mr Zupiria, to ensure that the public money invested from the Basque Government meets the objectives of promoting culture and sport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u137	Mrs. President, Mr. García, Member of Parliament. "I appreciate Bingen. On behalf of the entire Euroliga team, I would like to thank you and congratulate you for your cooperation in making this Final Four a real success. "We are honoured to have finally fulfilled the dream of celebrating a Final Four in Vitoria-Gasteiz and, in turn, in the Basque Country, as the thousands of followers of the participating teams have been able to enjoy a weekend full of basketball-related activities, and to taste, visit and know a land with countless opportunities and landscapes. "We are very grateful for the welcome the event has had, and for the support and promotion it has received from the highest institutions. A hug. Jordi Bertomeu, President of Euroliga. May 29, 2019." 10 days after it's finished. Since last April it became public that Gasteiz would host the Final Four 2019, I have had several opportunities to express the objectives that the Government, the City of Álava and the City of Vitoria had proposed for this event. The first objective was to turn Gasteiz into a European basketball capital. The second, to assume the responsibility of organizing a demanding and complicated event with solvency. The third was to ensure that institutional coordination and collaboration would work perfectly. Fourthly, we intended to offer all those who visited us the opportunity to meet our country and assure them that they would be able to enjoy a satisfactory experience. And finally, we aim to take advantage of the celebration of the Final Four to project to the world an image of Euskadi as a modern, open, welcoming and prepared country to host and organize all kinds of events. The data that have been made public following the celebration of the Final Four speak of the following results: it has been the first time that an event of this magnitude has reached a city of the dimension of Vitoria; an occupation of the Buesa of 98%; 2,300 people working to make everything work well; a planning effort and solvent organization; the largest security device organized to date in Euskadi; efficiency and fluidity in transport between the city and the Buesa, and between Bilbao, Donostia and Gasteiz; a level of hotel occupancy in Vitoria and around 98%; a high level of occupancy of the hotels of Donostia and Bilbao; an increase in air operations in Foronda, which has resulted in a significant increase in passengers compared to previous years; 550 accredited journalists; an event broadcast by television and internet to 193 countries; and a high number of publications and announcements in all the basketball stadiums in Europe where the Euroliga has been contested, which have made possible an international projection of Gasteiz and Euteiz. According to these magnitudes, I believe that the degree of achievement of the objectives we had set ourselves has been high, and the Euroleague is of the same opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u138	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u139	To begin with, Mr. Zupiria, you should recognize that the organization and management of the Final Four has not met expectations, despite Mr. Urtaran's efforts in campaigning to sell it to us as the most important event in Gasteiz's history. I have to admit that as a narrator, enumerating and reading, you have no comparison, but it is that we were talking about assuming responsibilities, because the department you manage is responsible for planning and celebrating the most important event, according to you, of Gasteiz. Of the €5 million it has cost, 4 come out of the public coffers of the Basque administrations, and 1.5 million directly from the Basque Government and its department, not to mention other costs such as security measures or hiring and unorbited bus spending. Explain to me where is the promotion of activities of social interest, the promotion of elite sport, and the external projection, the impulse of the local cultural fabric and the development of physical activity for all Basque citizens, because in this act they have shone for their absence. The PNV has used this event as an electoral argument in campaign; it has pulled the breast of being the party that has brought the event dreamt of the fans of basketball and citizenship in general. However, despite the fact that they announced it as a success, the pavilion has not been filled, and, worse still, the prices of some hotels and apartments have been abusive, which has caused the hotel squares not to be filled. The atmosphere on the street has also not been expected, and part of the hospitality feels deceived because they have not had the expected influx. We started off wrong when the subscribers themselves wanted to opt for tickets and it was all awarded. Many local fans did not get a pass, when then there were holes. There's the key. A big event with 4 million public investment that comes out of the pocket of all to have zero impact on citizens and businesses and gasteiztarras companies, and on the promotion of culture and sport, even less so. Who has benefited and enjoyed its celebration when it was intended to hold the event with volunteers, encouraging a model of precariousness that seems to be the modus operandi of the projects financed by your department? Citizenship, instead of enjoying the sport and the possible cultural exchange that an international event of this caliber can entail, has suffered the privatization of public spaces, parking spaces and traffic cuts, so that vips circulate comfortably in their rent cars of tinted crystals. And, pending the reports we have already requested of impact and efficiency, tell me what has been the return in terms of the impulse of local culture and the promotion of sport that has left us the celebration of the Final Four; not for Mr Bertomeu, but for the citizens of Gasteiz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u141	Mrs García, I have explained to you the objectives that we have publicly set ourselves, and then I have indicated to you a series of data with which to measure the degree of achievement of those objectives. I believe that there is a debate that is perfectly legitimate, and I believe that it does not have so much to do with the degree of achievement of the objectives, that we could also bring it to that ground. The legitimate area of discussion and discrepancy is what kind of events we want for our country. And we, in addition to the many that are taking place in the country, also bet on the attraction of major events of an international character. Furthermore, we have a mandate from this Parliament for us to continue to do so, and we are going to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u142	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the Wild Houseer and Legrand EH Team members made for the Chief of Work and Justice, on the non-proportion of the Government for the workers of the house." Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u143	Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. And first, Mrs. San José, I am grateful to you for being the only chief physician who remains from the beginning to the end, and we share that the household staff is a very important subject, and besides you, I believe that at this day even the departments of Murga or Artola wideland must be there, because they have a great deal to tell us about domestic workers. So thank you. And we have a little trap, because I'm due to register the question on Monday, and on Tuesday I received two answers from your department. So we were talking about incest. You brought us two proposals here. I also thank you for having sent without asking it, but it's very common. So that's very kind of you, and you'll allow me to change your question. I expect explanations of what you send me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mrs Etxebarrieta, I will try to summarise the process we have followed in order to implement the initiatives adopted by this Parliament in relation to the situation of domestic workers. It has always been a major concern for the department, being aware of the difficulties that the matter had, given the special reality of the sector. I can therefore assure you that the delay in presenting the results is not due to a lack of interest, in any case. I will begin by reporting on the basic guide to occupational risk prevention for domestic workers, which was already, as you have commented, referred to last day 11. And this guide is the product of the review and adaptation of another previous one that was nourished by the contributions of trade union organizations and associations, and today we can affirm that we have a comprehensive and comprehensive guide. A first draft was sent to the four most representative centres in Euskadi and to five associations that bring together domestic workers, and I can assure you that we have obtained a collaboration that has resulted in adding value to the guide. Another document that we sent to this House on the same day 11 is the legal report on the effects of the suspension of articles 14.3 of Decree 177/2010 and 4.3 of Decree 31/2015. As you will have seen, Your Honor, the report is positive with regard to the possibility of access to such assistance for domestic workers who are in situations of reduced working hours or overage, either for the care of children or for the care of dependent or extremely serious family members. In this case, the delay has been due to our willingness to forward it to the diagnostic study. And, regarding this third document, from which I can deliver a copy if you wish, although only in Spanish, since it is being translated, I said that, with regard to this study, aware of the difficulties involved, we commissioned the Department of Sociology and Social Work of the University of the Basque Country to carry it out. Despite the experience of the university department, there have been the same difficulties that you will have to assess and sum up: the lack of approved data and the absence of concrete studies; that we are faced with an iceberg reality, that is, part of the reality of home employment is submerged and its approximation is not simple; and the characteristics of this sector of employment: at least 30% of people working at home in Spain are not affiliated with social security. I can assure you that we have intended to prioritise the quality of the study on any other matter, and, although with considerable delay, we will comply with the initiatives approved by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u146	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u147	Well, look, I'll tell you. I had not prepared anything today because I expected the answers that I was going to give. I have read and have had the opportunity to read the legal report. The truth is, well, I do want to tell you that, for what it is, it seems to me that it has come too late, but the famous phrase "it is never late if happiness is good." If I thought I understood you well – and that had intertwined me between lines, but it doesn't say so clearly – it is that there is no problem for homeworkers to access this type of support. I am very pleased that you have come to this kind of analysis. Well, as he often tells us, welcome. We have been saying this for a while now, but we are really glad that you realized that this was discrimination that had no legal basis whatsoever, as the text itself says. I'm really happy about this part. With the theme of the guide, we have made a slight comparison between the first one that sent us and this second one that sent us, and also the contributions that brought us from the different unions and organizations that had brought their contributions, and we have seen that some have been included; others have not. Yes, we would like to know how you intend to socialize this guide now. There was a kind of proposal that was made to him about easy reading, translating it into different languages. We would like to know whether they are going to take into account these kinds of proposals made to them. I am not going to mess with mamiarekin now, with what the guide comments, because we do not have time, but, well, we will have the opportunity, if you will, to discuss about this, because we have seen that some things have not changed much. And with the subject of diagnosis, we also read that he was translating; delighted I will take that work that he has said he is willing to give me. I have also brought you other jobs, with your permission, which have been done in recent years, and which I think are very interesting, on the issue of domestic workers, on the situation of women in Vitoria-Gasteiz. And then, a much wider one that Mundubat has made on non-domestic workers. It has a lot of reading; we can leave it for summer, but it seems to me that we have many jobs to resume from summer with the diagnosis that you have made, with the diagnoses that the domestic workers are making. We're late, three years, but let's go get those points we have to work on. At least for our part, we will continue, even if it is always the last item on the agenda, but not least, working on the issue of domestic workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u149	Indeed, Mrs Etxebarrieta, much work remains to be done. Of course, for our part, we have the task of coordinating with the other departments involved the actions to improve the situation of the domestic workers sector. Such coordination will involve measures to make the sector visible to society and to raise awareness of its importance, in addition to informing domestic workers about their rights and obligations, and to activate instruments and measures with regard to the prevention of occupational risks. After the completion of the studies and the basic guide for the prevention of labour risks for domestic workers within the Department of Labour and Justice, Osalan is developing an action plan that will be dealt with with by the other departments of the Basque Government that have any action or are involved in any action. And once approved by the government, we will refer it to Parliament. Of course, the implementation of this plan will involve the participation of the domestic workers themselves through associations, collectives and trade unions in which they are grouped or represented. I would like to conclude by reiterating my commitment to the sector and announcing to them that, in the actions that we are going to take, it is our intention to hold a few days on the problem of the collective, to which your ladies and gentlemen will be invited in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-14.u150	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two and sixteen in the afternoon.
