ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. One theme: "Agreeful corrections to the bill presented by the General Prev. 20th of the Eusal Autonomy Er member. The discussion and the vote. There's a word for you, Mr. Golly's representative, to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. For the fourth and last time in this law, in the name of Euskeach, I would like to present to you the bill of the Universal Précament in the event to come, because it belongs to this Chamber to accept it. Ez da beharrezkoa is the law of his edozein law, baizik eta Eusko Jaurlaritzaren eskumenekoak diren henerako arlo sektorialetara proyektatzen den lege bat de la éta 2020. Urtean zehar haren eskakizun ekonomikoak estaltzen dituela. This law is "the formal documentary expression in financial and accounting terms of the integrated set of decisions that constitute the executive programme of economic activity carried out by the Basque Autonomous Community", and thus incorporates not only a detail of expenditure and revenue, but a cluster of mandates, regulations and ways of understanding the public economy in the current year. I would like to say that this exercise also does so in a particularly intense way, since it is a project that, since the very production guidelines adopted last June, shifts between innovations in cross-cutting issues, such as equality and climate change, and more sectorally classic policies. They are also aware of the agreement reached by the Government with the parliamentary group in Elkarrekin. We are able to carry out the accounts and the content of which I will report in detail later, after addressing the economic context in which Euskadi lives, the budgetary framework that has been taken into account to prioritise public policies to be developed in 2020, and after commenting on some issues which, while reserved to the law, will be part of the articulated text approving the appropriations. As you know, the draft Euskadi General Budgets for 2020 amounts to EUR 11,774 million. The overall budget is 10 million euros less than that of the project presented in 2019, due to the lower need to amortize public debt. However, the operating budget, i.e. the one available for spending on public policies, is 301 million more than in the case of financial assets, i.e. 2.9% more than last year. If the previous budget project was characterised by a strategic orientation through its insertion into a medium-term horizon and its linkage with the objectives of the main strategic and departmental plans foreseen for the legislature, the budget project for 2020, without forgetting the above, is characterized, already from the guidelines themselves, by its gender approach and the important economic effort in action against climate change and sustainability, consistent with the climate emergency declaration adopted on 30 July. Eta bi alderdi horiek berretsi egin dira Elkarrekin We can legebiltzar-taldearekin lortutako akordiorekin, jarduketa horietara bideratutako zuzkiduren aurrekontu-berresleipen garrantzitsua ekarri baitu. This is a draft budget formulated in a context of growth of the Basque economy significantly higher than that of the euro area, which is 1.2% higher than that of the European Union, France, Germany and the United Kingdom, not to mention Spain, which is 2%. An economic framework which has been endorsed by Airef, considering it prudent and in a confidence-building scenario, and which foresees an increase in GDP for this year of 2,2 % and for the next year of 2,0 %. In both years the domestic demand will be the engine of the economy, with a contribution of the external balance that will be slightly negative. Both private consumption and investment will lose some intensity as the quarters go by. On the other hand, the industry will overcome the current difficulties, but without regaining the intense pace of previous years. Construction will show strong dynamism, while services will continue to grow above average. Trade war, political conflicts and financial market turbulence, among other reasons, have created instability, but the deterioration of the global economy has been limited. It is true that the pace of progress of the major world economies has slowed, but for the time being a sudden and widespread slowdown is being ruled out. The European Union maintains its relatively stable economic activity and the Spanish economy also grew by 2% in the second quarter. The forecasts reflect an increase in employment in Euskadi of 1.6% for this year and of 1.2% for next year, i.e. 15,300 more jobs this year and 11,500 next year. As you can see, the legislative objective of reducing the unemployment rate to 10% has been exceeded, with our forecasts of 9.9 as an average for this year and 9.8 for next year. Speaking of the project's economic and budget scope, the budget's targets in 2020 assume that Euscal Autonomia Estigata is 0%. In our case, it's already been up to three years since the public business has been superabundant since 2017. As far as revenue is concerned, the contributions from the outside bodies show an increase of EUR 318 million over 2019. A total of 10,473 million, which accounts for 89 % of the total revenue budget. Precisely, the good situation of Basque accounts has made it possible to commit, as you know, financially sustainable investments worth 54.4 million in 2018 and almost 100 million in 2019. As I have already pointed out on many occasions, the expenditure rule makes it uncomfortable to limit the possibility of allocating the surplus obtained, at least in part, to capital expenditure. And that is why we continue to firmly believe that its implementation should be made more flexible, going even beyond the above-mentioned financially sustainable investments, whose implementation in 2020 is still in doubt, for example by setting higher reference rates. For its part, public debt in 2020 should not exceed 13.2% of GDP. And, in our case, by the end of the year we will be close to 12%. As for debt amortization, the proposed 2020 budgets reach 714 million, about 384 million less than in 2019. Government is still loyal to commitments to support and enhance social policy and to encourage economic development and employment. Thus, 77,5% of this project belong to the social police. For after the budget obtained by Podemos with the legislature, that percentage will be a little larger, that is, almost eight of the euros, to the health, education, and social police. In addition, the Basque Executive continues to bet on public investment. Looking at the evolution of all investments, capital transfers and increases in financial assets, there is an increase in investment of up to 10.2%, up to EUR 1,093 million, which is 101.5 million more than last year. In addition, the commitment to innovation, with an increase of 5.44%, is maintained until the PCTI 486.6 million, 25 million more than the previous year. Turning to the budget by departments, sectors of activity and public policies very briefly, it must be said that the Department of Health is again the one with the largest budget, 3,942 million, of which about 3 billion are for Osakidetza and 544 million for Pharmacy. Investments in Osakidetza are maintained at 69.7 million and health concerts at 235.5 million. Of the planned regular investments, 30% will be earmarked for primary care, tripling the number of previous years for the construction of new health centres and reforming existing facilities. Education, for its part, has 2,919.2 million euros, an increase close to 74 million. And a considerable part of these resources go to the University of the Basque Country, 323.5 million euros. The Department of Employment and Public Policy, the third in budgeted amount, with $1.08 billion. Sorry, 1,030.8 million. An extension, however, for the coverage of subjective rights. In this respect, the draft provides for the updating of the amounts of income guarantee income, without prejudice to the improvement agreed for inclusion throughout the parliamentary process of the draft. For its part, the effort in employment policies will be even more substantial as payment and commitment appropriations increase to around 30 million euros, thanks to the agreement reached with the parliamentary group of Elkarrekin Podemos. In addition, the department will allocate 81.3 million to family and Community policy and 27.5 million to social emergency aid. For its part, the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure, fourth in terms of budget, with 962.7 million, has experienced an increase of close to 97 million euros. Of this increase, 75 million will be contributed to the Finkatuz fund, so the Basque Institute of Finance will now have EUR 175 million in 2020 to invest in Basque companies and strengthen their roots. As you know, in the last two years the Basque Government has already acquired small holdings in companies such as CAF and Kaiku Food Corporation. The management appropriations of the Basque Y Security will manage 660.5 million euros, with an increase of 12.2 million. 75 % of this action will be spent on staff costs. The Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy grows to 276.3 million; it is experiencing an increase of 16 million euros. In turn, Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing has 236 million euros, with 12.7 million more than the year 19. In this department, the major items are derived from the entities dependent on it, such as the Basque Water Agency URA, IHOBE, VISESA, Alokabide. And, in addition, 7.5 million, 2.5 million more than last year, are implemented for the Gaztelagun programme in support of youth emancipation. Labour and Justice handles 225.7 million euros, and the amount allocated to free legal aid is 15 million euros, and Osalan 12.3 million euros. For its part, Lehendakaritza will count with 126,6 million euros in 2020, with increments in Emakunde, whose budget is 5,9 million, although this figure will be substantially increased after the realization of the agreement reached. The Innovation Fund and the budget of the Basque Cooperation Agency, which is growing by 3 million to EUR 49 million, are also being increased. In the budget project, we get a two-year-old salary pay for over $10, more than $100,000 people from the Basque and his organizations, besides the contributions to the Major. The Public Governor and the Auto-gulden Government is the only division that doesn't grow, standing up to 121,1 million dollars in the budget for 2020. Finally, OgSun and Economics will use 54,9 million euros budget, 2,13 million euros increase, mainly due to the development of the Eustate's operations on the laws of this year received by Eustate. Tourism, Trade and Consumption, for its part, increases its budget to 42.6 million euros; 1.4 more than the previous year. As far as the text is concerned, the draft General Budgets Act for 2020 consists of 5 titles, 32 articles, 13 additional provisions, 6 final provisions and 4 annexes supplementing it. Title I, as a novelty for the first time, includes the budgets of the Basque Technological Scientific Consortium/Basque Research and Technology Alliance. Similarly, the budgets of the Hobetuz Foundation, a public sector foundation whose extinction was authorized to the Governing Council last July, are not incorporated. The second heading provides, in relation to the content of the budgets, for different provisions relating to statements of expenditure. The third chapter provides for an interim and transitional increase of 2 % over the salaries in force in the 2019 financial year for all staff serving the public sector and, as in the previous year, also provides for the possibility of making contributions to social security schemes, with a ceiling of 0,5 % for staff costs. With regard to income, in addition to contributions from the outside bodies, a 1% increase in the rates of the General Finance of the Basque Country is expected. In its final part, the draft law provides for 13 additional provisions which, in an informal manner, establish certain specialities with regard to the general system of budget implementation. These provisions, without prejudice to any changes that may be made in the subsequent commissioning, include an increase in the amount of income security income and the stagnation of a fixed amount of EUR 250 per month for the supplementary housing benefit and for the economic housing benefit. As novelty, the 12th additional regulations have been introduced, which predicts the production of the strategic funding of finances, as a special growth in the funding of the Euscal Institute. As you know, they're going to have a financial part of a long term in the great Euskade companies, to ensure that the shooting will stand and that the Euskals will be on top of the entire production system to make sure that they'll be able to make it work. Nevertheless, before the financial conversions of the substance began, as the regulations itself predicts, the Euscal Institute will have to accept investments and deviations, as well as the instructions of taking part in the social organs and making decisions in the social society. The bill is supplemented by six final provisions amending legal provisions, such as the consolidated text of the Public Fees and Prices Act, the Waters Act in relation to the water canon or the High Charges Compensation Act, authorizing the Government to develop and enforce the law and establishing its entry into force on 1 January 2020. In this regard, I would like to point out that the change in the regulation of the water canon seeks to simplify and facilitate the management of collection and compliance with tax obligations, while broadening the tax base to other consultative uses of water, respecting the principles of equity and effective management; however, its effects are shifted to 1 January 2021, with the aim of facilitating the adaptation of the supplying entities to the new situation and approving the new regulatory development during the financial year 2020. On the other hand, it is within the rule of his purchase that the services of the members of the Government, the antiquity of the higher and temporary workmen, should be counted only as civil servants, subordinates, or hired laborers, or contractors, but never in the office, as the services given by critics, are to be interpreted in a malicious manner. Finally, in view of the possibility that, after the adoption of this rule, provisions could be made on a basic basis in relation to staff costs in the public sector during the financial year 2020, the Governing Council is authorised to bring those rules into line with the rules and remuneration conditions of staff in the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community. The text of the Act is supplemented by four annexes, each of which relates respectively to commitment appropriations created in 2020, public society budgets, expandable credits and the composition of economic modules for educational concerts. These are, in short, the main dimensions and characteristics of the draft law on general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community for the financial year 2020. A project that, aware of the position of the Government and the groups supporting it, and aware of the parliamentary minority for budgetary approval, we have tried to agree and agree with the opposition groups, in order to seek their approval in this House. Fortunately, unlike last year, an agreement has been reached, and Euskadi will have budgets in place on the first day of next year. To this end, contacts were maintained with the three opposition groups at the end of June and at the beginning of July, when the budgetary guidelines for reporting on them were adopted. This is relatively unusual, but it was understood necessary as this exercise is in budgetary extension and as updated as it would have been after the adoption of the three supplementary laws on 14 February. Thus, well before the approval of the project by the Government, we provide an opportunity to listen to the proposals of the parliamentary groups, with a view to setting those priorities that they understood to be important for the project to reach a successful conclusion. We gave them an overview of the budgetary framework in a comprehensive and detailed manner, including the requirements which, with a view to making the allocation of resources, entailed the wage increase, the room for manoeuvre available in accordance with the parameters of budgetary balance and financial sustainability of the Basque accounts and the rest of the priorities arising from public policies, such as innovation, family, housing, etc. I've said it many times: This government has always known that it is a political and stupid act to assume the budget to be the only economic point in which it prevails. But in the same way it is undeniable that only economic decisions that are able to penetrate into the negotiation of budgets which are capable of conducting real political, responsible, and fitted to the list of jurisdictions. If, on 11 November, the date of submission in committee of the draft approved by the Government, I appealed to the responsibility of the opposition parties to reach as broad an agreement as possible on budgets that we believe to be positive for citizens, I also said that we would seek an agreement with which I really wanted to negotiate and I would like to agree. At such times of certain economic uncertainty, we could talk about social improvements and reasonable sectoral policies, without entering into unsustainable economic adventures that would mortgage the well-being of the citizenry or the social equality necessary for general cohesion. We have devoted ourselves to this in the weeks leading up to this plenary session, with the mind that a budget with variations was possible, viable and necessary, but not one that was diametrically opposed, for political responsibility, or one that could not be fulfilled, unreal and economically impossible. In this scenario, and following the prompt, in my opinion, self-exclusion of the People's Group, which by the beginning of November had already publicly proposed intractable initiatives with tax reductions and changes in the contribution coefficients to the Basque Government, the negotiations focused on the groups of Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, who had shown their negotiating will at the time of presenting the budget to the committee. However, while the Elkarrekin Podemos group joined the negotiation the same day after the end of the presentation of the budgets in committee, the EH Bildu group, on the contrary, after delaying the conclusion of the meetings, made a proposal for negotiation, for the public more than the government, almost 15 days after that presentation. At that meeting, EH Bildu came without a concrete proposal and the Government was open to receiving it in order to be able to analyse it. It received that proposal 15 minutes before it was publicly submitted. If, from the very beginning, we contrast this way of acting with a true negotiating will, which must be presided over by discretion, it is a challenge to read the content of the negotiating platform based, among other things, on claims that were essentially identical to those that failed last year's budget negotiation, it did not place the substance of the possibilities of negotiating rapprochement with this group in parameters of feasibility. As I understand it already known and adapted to what has been received, I will not now repeat the assessment of the Basque Government, which made on the same day 26, by the proposal submitted. But the speed with which the coalition came out to state that it knows how to read between lines and that the government's assessment denotes the unwillingness to sit down to negotiate its proposal, as well as suggesting that there was already an agreement with Elkarrekin Podemos, indicated that the coalition was always more interested in seeking to justify a negotiating refusal on the part of the government than to be positive and useful to Basque society and to disguise its budget proposal, hiding again, as last year, the trapping of a certain political calculation of wear on the Government and the parties represented in it, of asking questions that were impossible. I'm sure you can read between the lines and it was clear that EH gathered on another stage. The day of San Valentin, EH Collectal's life was only improved when he wasn't part of it. On the contrary, from the first moment, even, I would say, since February of the same year, without renouncing any of its ideological postulates but conscious of the need to change to the political-institutional praxis, Elkarrekin Podemos has adopted a negotiating attitude that combines social utility with small but significant steps that introduce changes that are much quieter than those who seek to usher in the agreement one day yes and another day also want to make us believe. We said that we would seek an agreement with which we really wanted to negotiate, and we have done so with Elkarrekin Podemos, the only group that has wanted to enter into a negotiation, which has given, I understand, an extraordinarily positive fruit. I won't say it was easy. On the contrary, it has been complex because we both have had to accept the reality principle of social and economic complexity and the institutional and regulatory framework. For this reason, the first thing I must do is to thank, truly thank, the attitude, the constructive and pragmatic attitude and the correctness with which the representatives of the parliamentary group in Elkarrekin Podemos have acted in the search for solutions. It is clear that it is not the budget of Elkarrekin Podemos, but it is not the one presented by the Government in its entirety. There have been agreements that bring about very significant changes in the detail of expenditure, which encourage very important public policies towards areas where a crucial impact of Elkarrekin Podemos and the whole of Basque society is visible. Moving the public accounts framework for 2020 – EUR 88 million out of a total of EUR 301, which were the additional ones – is not a bagatela but a big impact. All this without the allocation or reallocation of incidence, also multi-annual. The content of the government offer, as well as the extremes of the agreement signed, have led to concrete budgetary improvement efforts in three key areas in the days we live: feminist policies and the fight against macho violence, measures against climate change and measures to protect families, businesses and young people from the crisis. According to this agreement, economic growths of 201,5 million euros will be responsible at the next year's budget. I am not going to reproduce the entire content of the agreement here because it has been made public, but I will outline the progress that, in my opinion, has led to some budgetary change. More specifically, with regard to feminist policies and the fight against gender-based violence, there are actions targeting women victims of sexual and gender-based violence, training schemes on equal terms for public personnel, accompanying measures in court, and special attention has also been paid to minors and adolescent victims and older women, who are often more difficult to reach the usual or unknown channels, even if they are being victims. We have also agreed to develop a programme of affective-sexual education in early childhood, primary and secondary education to prevent sexual abuse, which we believe is key to moving towards real equality and a society free of male-based violence. In the context of measures to combat climate change, important steps have also been taken in the areas of energy transition, with aid and subsidies to assist such transition, highlighting the establishment of a financial tool provided for in the Energy Sustainability Act to support local entities, in order to facilitate the investments to be made in its implementation, which will entail an amendment to the text of this draft law. Citizenship will receive training to analyse light rates and will pay special attention to priority areas such as Ezkerraldea, Meatzaldea, Oarsoaldea, Bidasoaldea or Araialdea. New is, in turn, the agreement we have reached for an aid line, the Renove plan, for self-employed carriers with a MDL light transport licence. Through this agreement, measures will be taken to provide more information, in different sectors, on the condition of adapting to climate change, with reports prepared by the clusters themselves, investments in those areas of Euskadi most exposed to the effects of climate change. Important in this field is the economic endowment of a new venture capital fund or the expansion of the already existing Ezten, to participate in viable companies but affected by divestment operations or abrupt outflows of capital from family enterprises. Some of the key points of this social protection agreement are the 4% increase in income guarantee income and the supplementary monthly allowance for single-parent cohabitation units or the provision of an orderly and guaranteed transition between the supplementary housing benefit and the definitive design of the subjective right to housing. Several pioneering cohousing initiatives are also envisaged In addition, the Education Infrastructure Plan will be increased by EUR 10 million 2019-2023, prioritizing new investments to be made, educational centers with high concentration of low ISEC students, as well as according to the index of educational needs. Action will also be taken on the recovery of school kitchens and the expansion of existing pilot projects for the management of school dining rooms with municipalities. Both the Basque Government and Elkarrekin We have agreed on the importance of continuing to work on the promotion of employment and on the economic development of Euskadi. And, thus, there are multiple actions in training, business support, support for job creation, support for local trade, youth employment and a long time. These measures will be targeted primarily at the long-term unemployed, vulnerable women and young people. We have agreed on specific actions in priority action areas and areas with high unemployment rates for women. The health area has been one of the areas that has also been important in the negotiation. We have agreed to establish specialized units for the care of children and adolescents with mental health problems. And there has been an important step forward in primary care, with the commitment to proceed, in the period 2020-2022, to the creation of 92 more places, apart from the 46 places contemplated in the primary care strategy, in the categories of nursing, primary care pharmacists, physiotherapists and administrative assistants. In addition, a significant budget allocation has been established for the prevention and treatment of gambling addiction and other non-substantial addictions in Euskadi. As you can no doubt see that Euskadi has an approved budget for 2020, it is going to be for the benefit of everyone. And I want to highlight this agreement, which I consider to be of paramount importance, not only because of political and institutional stability, but also because, in some way, it is a small milestone in the ways of making policy and, in particular, budgetary policy, with accounts that this country needs and had not approved with the consensus of Elkarrekin We can, as such formation, never. That is why – and I finish already – my thanks to Elkarrekin We can for the effort made to reach this agreement. I am aware that in the last year of the legislature it is not a simple decision. They have proved to be willing, fighting for priority public policies, aware of existing limitations, looking for the good of Basque citizenship and opening up new political relations from an ideological difference capable of reaching consensus. I am particularly grateful for the confidence in which the talks between the two teams have developed. Euskadi will have an approved budget in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u2	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The American Basque Group has the word, Mr. Damborenea, in order to favor the full correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, Mr. Counselor. "We negotiated with whomever we wanted." Mr. Azpiazu, I'll remind you. February of this year: they refused to negotiate the extension of budgets with the People's Party. You. Three times we met; he didn't move a coma. Now, today, he told us that Podemos was already more flexible at that time. And I do agree with you that, indeed, the pact of this budget – which is made in Madrid, of course – has been in place since June and that its guidelines, speaking of equality and climate change in this budget, were the parlez-vous parlez-vous Therefore, do not come to us here to say that "it is that, poor government, the others have not wanted to negotiate". Hey, yeah. But when we came in, you know what they said there? "Thisphany fails to comply with the agreements." That's what they said when we came in. "Thisphany fails to comply with the agreements." Well, the whole Basque government fails to comply with agreements, all agreements, those that agree with trade unions or those that agree with other groups. Because, I will remind you that, when we said in June that we had to go to the reform of the IRPF, it was what we had agreed with you. And what did they tell us? No, I don't. No, I don't. Why? Because they were already in what they were in. Let me see, if I understand perfectly well that the Basque Nationalist Party is interested in a government of Podemos in Madrid and, in exchange for those votes, because here we attend what we attend. But don't sell us the doll wearing it: "It's that others don't want to negotiate or propose things...". If you have not sat down at any time talking about the reform of the IRPF that we are talking about! But no one, not his government, not his party. So they don't come to us now saying "it's that she didn't want to," right? Look, we agreed in two years, the budgets, with you; you failed. Both of you. Let's see, have you heard of line three, line four, and line five of the subway? They were in the first pact we made. Does anyone know where they are? Where do they go? Has something been done? Zero. Zero, Mr. Azpiazu. The games we increase to help families with children... Did the money be executed or diverted to other games? He turned aside, Mr. Azpiazu; he turned aside to other games. But I'm not going to talk to you about 2017-2018. The extension that you approved, among others with us, for this year, the nominative items, which are mandatory, has also failed to comply. Yes, yes, sir, yes. So much that they talk about equality and all these things... you have therefore failed to comply with games to help sports clubs for disabled or, yes, yes, or women. They have not fulfilled them; they have failed them. But then we talked a lot about equality. Do I remind you in education what we were going to do? "Doesn't Mr. Lehendakari like what we say..." Do I remind you in education what was to be done, the reform of education, the education law that was to come? Where is he? You tell me about the Haurreskolak 0-3 deal. Hey, what about the concert? If it doesn't exist, if it doesn't exist! And we agreed on 17th and 18th. There are no 0 to 3 years. It doesn't exist. And the English, neither. So, anyway, what do you want me to say? It's not a very credible government. Not for us, no, but not for the people who are on the street, who are their officials, who tell them to break their agreements. But all this comes from the drift that comes. More than a year and a half ago, the Basque Nationalist Party decided to change partners, change politics, change everything. They reached an agreement with Bildu to liquidate the Spanish Statute and Constitution in the Basque Country. Now I don't know if they're remodeling or not, because they already know this about the pendulum, don't they?, that they carry it in one way or another. But what has produced that during this year and a half what is it? Instability, instability, growth is no longer what it was, employment is no longer going as it was and the jobs that are created are tiny in quality. In fact, 50% of jobs, Mr Councilman, are now being taken by foreigners in the Basque Country, who, as you and I know, are the most prepared, the most qualified, and therefore the best-paid and the most-quoted. That is the employment that is being created this year by this Government, with the measures of this Government. And what budget does the Basque Government bring us? Because the Basque Government, you have recognized us that you have had a surplus these three years. And notice that, having surplus as it has, of course, more than 500 million euros a year of surplus each year, more than 500, and this year will close with more than 500... Don't you? Is he going to do magic? Well, maybe you still have a few days to do magic for Mr. Counselor, don't you? And despite having a surplus of more than 500 million, despite beating the IRPF's collection records year after year, it is that it has not even fulfilled the matches they had; it wasn't that expensive, it wasn't that much money, it didn't even reach 40 million euros. He didn't do it. And what budget does he bring us? A budget that, as you say, is less than 10 million last year. Yeah, yeah, but it's still smaller than the 18th. It is also inferior to the execution of the 18th. And what does this budget do? Does it increase spending? Yeah. Does it increase investment? He is the least investor, the least investor, Mr. Counsellor, of the entire legislature. And that's what traps and puts chapter 8, to see if adding chapter 8 to chapter 6 and 7 gives us to say that we put a million euros more than other exercises. And you know it perfectly well. And do you know why, among other things, the investment in the Basque Country has fallen? Because this change of partners also brought about a change of government in Madrid, and that change of government in Madrid implied that the Basque Y Practically, all the extra revenue you have this year you dedicate to increasing current spending. Current expenditure on what? In what? Social media in Basque outside of ETB, which you already raise to ETB 15 million euros, and with the pact they have it gets even worse. It is that the pact worsens each and every one of the budget items that have been brought to us. Still, as 15 million euros more are few, we will put you, with the deal with Podemos, more money to ETB. Look, I did the math the other day. We will spend more than 160 million euros on EITB. Look, with 40 million we pay everyone an average of 50,000 euros and they stay at home, and we save 120 million dollars a year, because to make a sectarian television that doesn't see it almost anyone, for let's say that 120 million euros we could use them in more things. It is a budget that increases current spending and in addition they do it on purpose and do so in order not to lower taxes on citizens. He does it to come here, to come out here to the rostrum, as he did a moment ago, to tell us that there are proposals that are unviable, are unviable with his budget. Yes, of course, of course, they're inviolable with your budget. You fire the current spending in all respects... yes, yes, Mr. Counselor. Man, you're upset that we call you pumita. And why does it penalize the private sector? Because here the great beneficiaries in this country are those who live in the Basque Government. Those are paid substantially, which is not the case with the people on the street. The rise that this government poses at all levels... Man, the most scandalous is that of the RGI, already without the agreement with Podemos. With the agreement with Podemos it is not that it makes it worse, that is, it gives us the model of country to which the Basque Nationalist Party aspires, and it is a society of subsidies, which we will see who pays, of subsidies and cheats, and of cheats, because you with those policies, and we told you many years ago, it seemed that you had learned something, you left the indexation of the GIR with the minimum wage, you took it, and now here, up after climbing, we will see if we have reached the same. And in the end, what are they getting? Well, they're making it unprofitable to work legally. It's more profitable to collect the GIR on the one hand and work in black on the other; you don't quote, you don't pay taxes and in the end you take 2,000 euros to do the same. And this, which is a policy that is being promoted with these budgets worsened with those of Podemos, is the policy that you are promoting, because, indeed, Mr. Counsellor, a budget is political, which policies encourage. Do you encourage you to lower taxes or do you encourage you to raise taxes? Do you have in this budget – we have been talking about economic slowdown for a year – any measure in this budget to promote employment? Any news? Don't you? It's been a year, this year. Any news on last year's budget that you brought us? We were growing, we were growing almost 3%. Now we're falling in growth, job creation is falling, the job that is created is bad... it's just that I haven't heard any of it. I also asked him in the committee the other day. Since I have not found any, is the Councilman able to tell me any new measures to promote employment, to promote economic growth by 2020? No, right? Now, of course, this government says, "No, we don't have fiscal capacity; that's the deputies." Well, with corporation tax the same thing happened, but where do you have fiscal capacity what did you do? Up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, Moreover, you have created a new tax in this law of budgets that will approve those gentlemen there... By the way, the most anti-ecological tax we've ever seen. Yes, Mr. Counsellor, yes, I was on the committee when we asked Mr. Environmental Adviser. "Hey, but this," he says, "comes from the Treasury, and it seems good to me, because we are going to collect more, which is the role of this government, to collect more from citizens." What have you done? Create a new tax that taxes water intake and pays the consumer what is lost on the way. Which is who's responsibility? From the public administrations. Of course, therefore, it's fantastic, the more waste there is. This is what you have done, you have replaced the "most-consumer pays more" by "I'm going to charge more the more it gets wasted", and so we have to collect more, more than 100%, more than 150 %. You're going to collect more, yes, yes, with this new tax you've created here. And very environmentalist doesn't seem. That's why I told you there's a lot of ecological filfa and a lot of feminist filfa here. This is a budget, too, which we all know continues with the cuts that have been made to officials. In fact, the councillor, slightly more or less, came to us to say that we were putting the Basque economy at risk by proposing that the pre-retired teachers – by the way, feminized sector, well – if the Basque Government's obligations to them were fulfilled, that was a little bit more or less the government's failure. So it is a government that apparently has no money for these things, but to create new rights to senior government officials or government members it does have money. Because, of course, to comply with the Basque Government's agreements with officials there is no money, but so that senior officials, government members and trusted staff can charge trienniums, for that there is money. Yes, yes, this is your additional provision in the budget, the fourth end. Yeah, you bring it to us. For some things there isn't, for some things there is. Public sector. They still don't simplify anything. I've told you before: there are others like Elika, others like Neiker, Hazi, etc. can be reduced. We tell him every year, every year. But, well, then I'll talk about the new society that you intend to create. The most unfortunate thing, probably, of the budget you have brought us is what concerns concerted education. After the strike we have had until just a month ago, that you bring us a budget in which the salaries of the teachers of the concertate do not go up even 1%, remains at 0.8... yes, yes, Mr. Counsellor, yes, at 0.8, and the current expenditure module has been frozen for 11 years now. Man, what is a paradox is that in the agreement that you have signed when referring to concerted education you say, "Free choice of parents is guaranteed." So, you say, there's a way to guarantee it, isn't there? There's money for everyone, except for the concert. I guess in a few months we'll have another strike, but it's the centers' fault, not this government, which has to pay the salaries, right? Of course, it's also paradoxical... They say, they have a paragraph referred to in the agreement on the agreement, and they say, "The freedom of parents to choose the centre is guaranteed." "It has to be free." Look, you're making it more and more expensive, Mr. Counselor. And the conclusion they come to is that there has to be more inspections at the concert. Inspections will be to see if the Government ever fulfils its obligations, indeed, to guarantee the freedom of parents of choice of centre, which it does not do, because it costs them money. But it is better to spend it on other things, on embassies, on ETB, in southern France, in those living in the Basque region. That's very good. But for the concerted, for the fundamental rights of the citizens, of the Basques, for that there is no, for that we have no money. You have told us about Finkatuz, about the background that says it is created. It's not true, you don't believe anything, you don't create any fund. What do you think? Create an accounting point at the Basque Institute of Finance. And as you yourself told us a moment ago here... , yes, yes, yes, as he told us a moment ago here, he says: "We will have to set the criteria of investment and disinvestment", which is what comes in writing, by the way, in memory, with which it is no novelty. But don't tell us they created the fund. They haven't created any funds. He created an account at the Basque Institute of Finance. An account. And I would like to remind the advisor of the branch that, when she proposed to us the creation of this fund at the beginning of the legislature, which we enthusiastically support her, it was the creation of a public-private fund to invest in solvent, viable and not stock-market companies. Good. And what do you bring us into this law? They bring us an accounting point, the creation of a 100% public society to manage that fund. That's what's coming, counselor, isn't it? I mean, we're going to create another chiringuito in the end to buy stock. Hey, but if you've already bought shares that you think are in the... If no society was needed! They've bought CAF, they've bought others. There was no need to create any society, Mr. Counsellor. Why is it necessary to create another society and above all public? Where's the public-private fund? What's happened to him? Oh, of course, it's just that for private people to come in, we had to make tax reforms, which haven't been done, nor are they going to be done. And in the end because someone instead of Finkatuz calls him Trinkatuz, right?, because he says, well, we're going to create a fund here, we're going to create a fund, we're going to invest in which companies, those that interest us in the PNV, to guarantee what?, so to guarantee certain salaries and jobs of certain people, and point. Hey, don't count on us for this. We support what we supported from the beginning three years ago, which was the creation of the public-private fund and not to play in a purse or anything like it. And less to create another society. But what is already paradoxical is the agreement with Podemos, which is already for note, because Podemos makes an amendment and says: "Good!, this is little; let's go up the Ezten for the same thing". And he says, "Hey, now they're going to compete with the two funds, the public society that's going to be created with the east fund." What kind of joke is this? What policy is this? What policy is this?. As you will understand, we, in any case, are not going into those games. Our alternative is clear that we have tabled it with all our amendments. We do propose to increase investment, Mr. Counsellor... yes, yes, in more than 60 and more than 70 million euros we propose to increase investment and support entrepreneurs, and youth employment programmes, and those of women and long-term unemployed. And in support of the family, as you are a chaperone, we have considered that what is needed is, look, we are going to make it universal, we are going to make it universal so that all women who have a child are entitled to that help, all without exception. And so the counselor will not cheat, saying "it's that these are, these are not, these are, and these are not." All of them. And, look, it's not that much money. Now, as it is not one of the things you like, it may seem to you that this would break the budget of the Basque Government. Don't worry, don't break it. But we want that help to be universal for all women. And, of course, since the age of two, children's education has been free for everyone, Mr. Counsellor, not only for those of the public; for everyone, also for those of the concertee, who every year are forgotten. And finally, Mr. Counsellor – because I am running out of time – they have brought us a budget that does not help at all to create quality jobs, but the opposite. Lack of public investment. The GIR will grow in a year more than 7.5%. They're going to favor the submerged economy. It's an option, because it's a political decision. Of course, we are against it. And the reform of the IRPF, the one we talked about and signed in his day that he had to favor middle and low incomes, is not going to be done, they are not going to do it. They have refused to do it because they know that they are the most paying and that all this joke of theirs is kept with that collection and they are the ones with which you beat the collection records, with the middle and low incomes, not with the high ones that you say, not with the inheritance tax, nor with the property tax. No, those manage to drive them all away and that we collect less. With whom you collect, those who had to be brought down this year, because you played, as you played in Spain two years ago. I was playing here too, but you've decided I'm not playing. And when you fill the lehendakari's mouth saying that private companies have to raise the salary to employees, it's fine, but it's for you to raise the stretch and collect more IRPF. Because how much do they have left? You lower the IRPF, if you consider that you have to have better wages the people who are on the street. And this is a budget that is obviously going to come out, by the pact that you have with Podemos. As I said, it responds to the government of Podemos in Madrid: more taxes for everyone and more current spending. Well, just like yours. Nor is it new what is going to happen in Madrid. Of course, you are not going to vote for the different PNV in Madrid than here. More current spending and higher taxes. This is the PNV now. And more social spending, if you want; we call social spending everything, it's all social spending. Also to the trienniums of the Government. Now, to the Basques the policy of the Basque Nationalist Party in the last year and a half is going quite badly, it is going quite badly. You are seeing how many autonomous communities are reaching us. How many are happening to us, I mean, economically, even in wage growth. On the street, I say the street, not the government, I say the street, the people who work on the street. They're happening to us. We see how, in Education, we go from half down. That's right, we're the ones who spend the most, but with a lot of difference, counselor. We see that in the latest surveys Osakidetza, in addition to the troubles of fraudulent opposition and all that, the perception of the people on the street is that it was no longer so good. There are more and more queues. Sure, when the health centers... There's one that's been on the budget for about five years, and it never runs, never... But this reminds me of Ondarroa's long, 20. I hope, Madam Counsellor, that, if you open it someday, you will invite me, because I would like to see with these eyes that one day that loon is made. Gentlemen of the Government, of the Basque Nationalist Party, I do not know if I have been understood, but we will vote in favour of this budget being returned to the drawer. They had the possibility of doing something else good for the Basques, which would raise lower tax revenues, in principle, Mr. Counsellor, for next year. Because you have proposed a budget with lower revenues than last year, but not at the expense of lowering taxes on people. You bring it to us because you save; you have decided to save. For when, Counselor? When must we take action, when the economy is not going well: when you are on the ground or before, so that you do not get to the ground? You had the possibility to make a very investor budget, very investor, and you haven't. And that is also a political decision of this budget and of this Government. And, therefore, as I was telling you, of course, we are going to vote in favour of returning this draft budget of the Basque Government for 2020, which is not only bad, but is going to come out much worse than what came into this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u4	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. We'll go in reverse shift. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u5	Yes, thank you, President. Egun where we're supposed to be. The Socialist Group is coming to this debate to vote "yes" on a budget project that, far from what the People's Party has argued, will consolidate the framework of stability and progress in which we Socialists were involved four years ago, so that, since the government action, the immediate urgency of the Basque Country would be met and the pillars put in place to meet the challenges of the future. A framework of stability in which the presence of the Basque Socialists in the Government has managed to keep any party temptation outside the public accounts, outside of revenue and expenditure. We therefore support a budget for Euskadi in 2020, in which no one is going to find a single euro for the main issue of the People's Party to call for its return: the political, economic or financial destabilisation of Euskadi. You can have other ideas on how to do things. You can make contributions and even look for meeting points. But these budgets, with their more than EUR 11,774 million, are rigorously raised in spending, they respond to a government program and these budgets are responsible. And they are because a government where we Socialists are going to be always responsible with the citizenry. Someone in this House said a year ago that the People's Party had not passed the duel. And they're still in the same today. The People's Party still spatters in the tears shed after Mr Rajoy's motion of censure a year and a half ago. And the sad thing is that they're trying to get the Socialists and the Basque people to give us that slap. The People's Party did not have the decency to agree with the Basque Nationalist Party a few accounts in Spain on the same day as the People's Party in Euskadi agreed with Euskal Herria Bildu other things about self-government that today denies the People's Party. That is why you are not in a position to give lessons. With its proposal of 158 million euros in general administration, of 3 and a half million euros in autonomous bodies and of 21 million euros in public entities and societies cannot, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, disguise a total amendment which is nothing more than its frustration at having lost power in the Government of Spain and for not having been able to regain it in the two elections that we have lived after. It was in his hand, only in the hands of the Basque People's Party – or Popular Party in the Basque Country, as its national president says – to have taken a courageous and differentiated decision. For that they did a conference a couple of months ago, or at least that's what some of us believed, but it seems to have only served to seal internal peace and obviate the responsibility of the People's Party with the Basques and Basques. And believe me, I'm sorry. Because the Socialists have always said that we were open to settling the accounts and sectoral policies with all the parliamentary groups, without vetoes or exclusions, as we have been doing, week after week, in the ordinary plenary sessions of this House. And we have given ample evidence of what was the priority for the Basque Socialists in a budgetary negotiation. And that's why, in Euskadi, we've never been vetoed, who will rule in Spain. Not you. But there the PP with his strategy and his attitude. And if I am sorry, too, your position, above all, is for the damage you are doing when you continue to proclaim that the political project of ETA is in force, when you are silent when you hear someone from your party say that today it is more difficult to make politics than when you and we were killed. Today it is much easier to do politics; you know it. Today it is easier to talk with one another and with another, to agree between different people. It is something that you practice, moreover often, in this House. And it's easier because we win against terrorism. It is a great victory for society and for society. I invite you, truly, to believe it at once. Let them stop hurling at something that is painful to us, to you and to us. And it's easier to do politics, it's easier to talk and agree. And so, when you have wanted, you have participated in the budgets in Euskadi. And when they decide not to participate, it is other parliamentary groups that try to participate and those that try to agree. A year ago they were happy to be able to share with Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin We can reject Euskadi's Budgets for 2019. Then, three laws on urgent budgetary measures for this year, in relation to income guarantee income, in relation to wages and education in February of this year, have allowed the Basque Government not to slow down the increase in income guarantee income or the wage increase of public officials. Today, I don't know. I don't know, really, if they're just as happy to share the budget rejection with Euskal Herria Bildu and with Ezker Anitza. And I start there, because it seems that what bothers them most and what distills their amendment to the whole is an aversion to the public and to social protection. They speak of the officials as if it were not the teachers and the Andreeños who teach in our schools, the medical and nursing staff who attend us in the outpatient clinics and hospitals, the ertzainas who look after our safety. And they talk about people who collect income-guarantee income as subjects suspected of wanting to live without work, forgetting that the fourth part are pensioners, that a fifth are poor workers and that the majority of the other perceiving persons enter and exit the protection network to the extent that they are offered opportunities. Because, Mr Damborenea and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if collecting income security income is a chollo, why are there 100,000 people today less than five years ago depending on that benefit? Why is the group of social security affiliates that grows the most in Euskadi the group of people who come from other places? Why do they not stop pointing fingers to the most vulnerable and unprotected groups and to those who come from outside, when the lies that Mr. Maroto left behind have been revealed on many occasions before registering in Sotosalbos? Today, the highest percentage of income-guarantee income earners are indigenous people and, in addition, mostly women who aspire not to be chronicled, to leave income-guarantee income and to be able to earn a decent living, working in quality employment. You place your high educational priority in concerted education, do not place it in the Basque education system in general. And look, concerted education is playing an essential role in a system that guarantees quality public education, whether provided directly or through concerted centres that have gained momentum in gaining social peace with the recent agreement in the sector through collective bargaining. This valuable instrument was buried with labour reform and must be recovered, because it focuses on achieving and consolidating labour and wage rights. That peace has been won for nothing, and it is difficult to understand that the People's Party is now trying to introduce elements of distortion, questioning the budget, when there is no reason for it. And they return in their full amendment to the issue of taxation with that phrase that even put in bold on the compromise to revise the agreement signed two years ago, in 2017. And they know it's not true. They know that this review was to be done after an evaluation of results in 2020. Because the tax effects have to be seen in perspective and because, as it will sound, next year there will be autonomous elections in Euskadi and a future government will have to agree with the newly renewed outlaws changes in the model for the coming years, if necessary. In 2020, many more issues about taxation will be addressed than those that the People's Party says in a racca-raca that it does not know how to go out on interest rate cuts..., pardon, tax rates. And knowing all that, that they know, is a misconception that the People's Party skipped that review pact just a few months after it was signed and sealed, when in Álava it agreed with Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu to break the compromise. And we Socialists have been and will be consistent with the agreements we have signed. And the one we signed on taxation two years ago, the one so demonized by some and that of which the People's Party now seems to deny, has demonstrated the correctness and rigour of its implementation. It is on that basis that these budgets have been drawn up and will be adopted. Because it has been shown that the collection forecasts for 2019 have been met far more. Because by 2020, the resources available for health care, education, income-guarantee income, housing and, ultimately, basic public services will grow, while maintaining economic growth. That the 2017 Fiscal Reform, whose tour began in 2013, was made thinking about the future and not about the next election campaign. And that, given the results, today is good news. Basque citizens know that the forecasts are in line with reality, that when we think about taxation, the Basque Socialists talk about how much resources we need to sustain our public services by promoting economic growth. Our tax system is a progressive system, in which it contributes according to the economic capacity of each taxpayer. And the strategic correctness in which the Basque Socialists participated two years ago has been confirmed and what we said in this Parliament was fulfilled. This is what is called rigorous action in the management of the resources of everyone. And if we go into the analysis of each tax, the first thing we detect is an important increase in the collection of the IRPF, which responds, as Mr Damborenea says, not to an increase in the tax burden on workers, but to an increase in the number of workers. And this is also good news. And if we look at corporate tax, we see that the forecast that we made here, in the gallery, with the latest tax reform is also being fulfilled, showing that the debate was not about nominal rates, which is what normally holds those who do not rule, but that the key to the debate should and should focus on effective rates. Nor can we ignore the importance of measures taken to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. When next year it comes to taking stock of the behavior of each tax, which is what we agreed in 2017, here we will continue to be without elections, without easy claims and without compartmentalizing taxes, so that everyone tries to scratch in a particular ballot box. In short, we are going to reject the amendment to the whole of the People's Party because we do not want these budgets to be returned to the Government for redrafting. Because these budgets consolidate the public policies that we have undertaken in this legislature. Because they also have a clear social orientation. Because they promote economic growth by driving the productive economy and generating quality jobs. These budgets also have the particularity of the introduction of the gender perspective and the environmental reinforcement envisaged in the governance agreement and logical consequence of the declaration of climate emergency promoted by the department of Iñaki Arriola and which has also become a cross-cutting issue of the government. It is therefore a project that reinforces the public commitment signed three years ago between the Socialists and the Basque Nationalists, which has also moved to the development of government action and which has served to sustain, maintain and strengthen public services, to generate employment opportunities, to be better prepared for the economic uncertainties that appear on the horizon. Because the risks are and can be addressed and minimized by articulating economic and social policies and measures with a fundamental economic tool, such as these budgets, which are adapted to the needs of the Basque economy and citizens in 2020. We have tried a budget negotiation that would share these pillars. Again a negotiation open to all parliamentary groups. A negotiation again without prejudice or veto, discussing only the proposals. We have sought a negotiation without looking at the ballot box, without playing campaigning with people's emergencies and needs. With a vocation to give stability and certainty to Basque citizenship. And that requires the Basque Socialists to reject the proposals which, like the amendment to the whole of the People's Party, on the basis of data that are not true, only aims to sow uncertainty and uneasiness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u7	Yes, thank you, ma'am, Congressman, chief of staff, ladies and gentlemen of the department, good morning. Well, I didn't think I'd over-aggravate myself in this first round, but the truth is that Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo has come to us to release a series of demagogic faults to the truth, not to mention lies, in a chuteous tone, lacking, that will have to be rebutted. I was thinking of starting, and I'm going to do it, congratulating the Finance Advisor on the agreement reached, on his entire team, which we know well, and also on Elkarrekin Podemos. They have made a very important strategic change, which will be, I'm sure, good for their party but, sure, very good for the country. Mr Damborenea, you start with the greatest of lies and it is that you turn the tortilla around and say that it was the government that did not want to talk. You have to have a face to say it, huh, and also to say it by looking people in the eye. Let's see, they start by saying... I remember very well when Carmelo Barrio came down here – it's not a pity – and he told Mr Zupiria that there had been negotiations for the budget extension and that in that negotiation they had agreed to meet all the nominative subsidies that came in the extended budget. So, was there a covenant or no covenant? Obviously, there wasn't. Mr. Azpiazu looked at us surprised and you said, "You talk to Mr. Azpiazu," and we did. There was no pact! It was a lie! Lie! You say that nominative subsidies deny bread to a poor man who lives under the bridge, who has nothing to eat. They were nominative subsidies to the club, to the choir, to Amets Ederra from where, to the club of the petanque from which village of Álava... Customer subsidies, which were embarrassing to others, Mr. Damborenea, embarrassing to others. Yeah, sure. We already knew his formula, the formula promulgated by the PP, which was to slim down the public administration and lower taxes, didn't we? And the truth is that in reading the amendments we have taken a sham; because, in the end, what it is to raise public investment little and what it is to lower current expenditure less. You had a favorable context to do an exercise and send the citizen a clear message, and it is that the PP wants to slim down the administration and lower taxes. Well, because this second part has not done so, because, in the end, its tax proposal, to which it does not make so much publicity lately – I do not know if it is ashamed every time they take the data out of it – is that it was based on lowering in IRPF about 1,400, 1,500 million euros in two years, on lowering 10% of financing to the Basque Government by changing the coefficient of vertical distribution of resources before deputies and government and abolishing the property tax, which currently collects about 180 million euros. You, well... we thought that Mr. Damborenea was going to jump into the tabling of amendments, he was going to pull out the pins and cut... How much? I'm going to let him go on the fly, because you've also done your tax proposal on the fly: 2 billion euros, 3 billion euros... I don't care. It's just that, even if it's half, it's a barbarity, as Montoro said for the tax proposal, not his, but for Married, who was the type. Moreover, as regards the amendments that you have tabled to the two main parts of the Basque Government, which are Health and Education, both grow. Health does it in 34.3 million euros and Education does it in 6.2 million euros, sending a clear message to citizens. And it's just that your tax proposal and your proposal for amendments to this budget is a joke; it's not serious, it's not serious... In the sections that cut, well, there's EITB. They cut him a quarter of his public funding, which is an absolutely respectable ideological bet, and this is realistic. You say, "We're going to cut a quarter of EITB." Well, it can be done... There's the euskaldunization, the delegations, the RGI, but then they start with a picturesque cut in current spending, right? You cut and cut a lot in games like press, magazines, books and other publications, software licenses He understands the PP that next year the senior officials and technicians of the Basque Government will not attend any conference, will not publish any guide, will not renew the software software This is neither slimming the administration nor a liberal proposal nor nothing; it is a joke. If you want less state, you could have been... consistent, right? What cannot be left to him is the liberal hand to draft the tax proposal and the Christian Democratic hand to draft the amendments, because they do not marry, and they have done so in just five months. If you are liberals to cut taxes, then you have to be brave, you have to be brave and in the amendments you have to put: listen, because we are going to cut half in education or health. Be brave. They want to slim down the administration... Do it, but with consistency. This morning we heard, for example – I say this for putting your proposals in a real context, right? – that Andalusia will be doing a kind of 155 financial. I mean, in 2018, and I know he's going to tell me that he ruled the Socialist Party, but it's the same to me, because I'm not going to that, I'm not going to the fact itself, I'm going to the answer that the president of Andalusia or his spokesman gave this morning, when he said, "Well, we're going to have to cut health or education." I understand that the president of Andalucia has already done a clean in two years of government of all the chiringuitos that you say there are – or in the middle year, a year; I don't care – you have already cleaned up all the entities and the chiringuitos that have been in Andalucia, as you might say. Well, he said he's going to cut back on health and education. In the district of the prosecutor, we propose to keep what we now have, because it helps to maintain the model of well-being we have. And how things are evaluated in 2020, and if there's anything to touch, touch it, but always thinking that the tax system is an instrument, it's not an end to it. We want a system of taxing taxes which will maintain our model of society, and we have an agreement to re-establish in 2020 the previous discussions with Poptular Party. And besides, if you say no, then I'll take it on the second round, because I have a press note to tell you that's the way it is. This Government prefers to place its Government action on much stronger principles, such as equity, the sustainability of public finances and the stability of budgets; not only in the formulation of a project that begins in January and ends in December, but it plays with a much more distant horizon. And the fact that in four years we have been able to agree with those who consider themselves very right-wing or very liberal and those who consider themselves very left-wing is not a demerit of those who consider themselves very liberal or very left-wing, but rather a merit of the whole society because it means that we share a model of society. In your model of society, Mr Damborenea, which does not exemplify in the amendments, which is in the ideals and in the discourse but which has not exemplified in the amendments, will Basque society appreciate better, that 86% of Basque citizens who value Basque health as very good or good, will it value Basque health better? Bilbao's subway is coming, is it going to be cleaner? Is Vitoria's tram going to be more punctual? Is your country model attractive? Society sees this working. Then make opposition and pose a revolution of drastic lowering of taxes, because it is not attractive. And it's not even attractive for you, that you don't dare make the cuts your tax proposal would demand. There's his obsessions, and then there's his obsessions like RGI. And here, the truth is that the subject is a little indignant, because this idea that you move that living with 700 euros is living phenomenal and without working and, moreover, charging in black, when it is known that the fraud is less than 1%, this stigmatizing because it is a little indignant. Because, look, neither you nor I – I am young, can pass many things, I will touch wood –... but you and I have a powerful family network; we have had lives..., well, we have had to strive in studies, in any..., but we have had comfortable lives, Mr.Damborenea, comfortable lives, relatively comfortable. So, you have to empathize a little bit because there are people who have not had it so easy in this life, and it is a last subsistence network that gives the GIR. Those are important, not the nominative, embarrassing and client grants, which you propose every time you give them the opportunity. We could have the coincidence that there has to be a powerful social elevator, a powerful social elevator in a society with an economic ecosystem where ideas germinate, where entrepreneurs go well, where they make money, and then that is reinvested and distributed in society. But from there to criticizing that all the evils come from the 449 million we dedicated to RGI there is a stretch. The RGI is a last subsistence network necessary for people not to go to the street and live under a bridge. Things are that simple. You speak after the canon of water, a theme, well, neuralgic in these budgets: 7 million in a budget of 11,774 million euros. Look: "The canon of water – another lie that you slide – is going to raise the water bill by 233%." But how will a 233 increase if currently the domestic sector pays nothing, pays nothing. Mathematically, if you don't pay anything and you pay a euro, do you know how much it goes up? Infinite. Then, 233 I don't know where you got it; we will discuss it anyway on Sunday, the day you brought a motion. Then there's the subject of Adostuz, and here we have to be honest. It cannot be said at the same time that the PNV drowns in taxes to the middle class and, finally, a middle class that works in the private sector, that covers practically all the chiringuitos, all the geriatrics that is the Basque administration, and at the same time that people who retired from 2012, among others, my mother, who is a high school teacher and retired in 2015, are entitled to perceive something they did not expect. There were other things that they did expect, for example, the Christmas pay, which their Government cancelled and which this Government drew and ended up paying. Yeah, he drew and ended up paying. Citizenship should not be treated as young children. The truth is that in those years there were many people in the private sector shaking because they had their company or bankrupt or in a complicated situation, and therefore the efforts had to be distributed. Efforts had to be distributed. In this area an agreement has been reached with Elkarrekin Podemos. It will have to be discussed from next year, but the approach to be taken is to look to the future, to look to the future. There is still one point, which can be recovered Itzarri; in the end, there are several points where it can be improved. The Poptular party had the chance of imagining his model of society in these budgets, and he didn't do it because he didn't dare, because the pattern we're working today works and he knows it works. I've said it for the first time, but it's a code question for me: Is your model of society more well-being? Does people live any better? Does the subway work better? Partners? It's not like that, is it? So, let's get rid of the odds and then see if we can make a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. We're going over to the answering shift. Basque Popular, Mr. Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Corcuera, well, I understand she's hurt, but you understand me. I did not mention them in the first intervention, because, when we negotiated, we have always negotiated with the Basque Nationalist Party. And the one who has obviously failed us is the Basque Nationalist Party. Now, do not tell me that I disguise the amendment as a whole; we disguised the amendment and that you act without looking at the ballot boxes, because I will remind you that, in the fiscal pact that we made and that you signed, the reform of the IRPF was left, because it was for the 20, it was left for after the municipal and outlaw elections, because you did not want those reforms to be made before the municipal and outlaw elections. That's why it was left for after those elections and that's why it was for the 20th, because after the elections we had, six months ago, was the time and the time needed to make the reform by the 20th. And now you've been telling me, a little bit more or less, that we're also in the election year and it doesn't play either. I mean, don't tell me you're not looking at the ballot boxes here, because, come on, even the pacts do it looking at the ballot boxes. Let's see, we're not happy to vote. – today we will vote yes – by voting yes to return these budgets to the Basque Government. Among other things, because they are budgets that are bad for Basques, also for us, who are also Basques. But no, happily, we are not happy at all, and less seeing the drift of this Government, at all levels, in economic, political and social terms. You tell me that in the RGI most are autochthonous. Hey, what's up? You don't know any autochthonous jets, do you? Let's see, when I'm saying that the fraud there is... I'm not saying that they do it one or the other, let's see, there's probably more autochthonous people. In fact, I know several autochthonous people. And it tells me that, now that the concerted education has been pacified, it turns out that we're wearing this. Listen, last year, in the amendment to the whole, one of the points was that the rise of the agreement for the year 20 was zero, it was zero the preview of the bill that Mr Azpiazu brought us to this Parliament. It was zero the salary increase of the teachers and teachers of the concertate. That's what you brought here last year by these dates, by these dates. And in February, in February, which gave them great shame, they equated it with the officials. And, hey, I don't know if it was you or Mr. Arruabarrena. Obviously, the nominal items, Mr Arruabarrena, in the budget extension, are not agreed. The extension law sets out which items to implement that year... don't, yes, look at the law that regulates, the budget law that regulates the extension and you will see. Man, if you consider Club Zuzenak, a disabled sports club, to be a client of the PP, I'll be delighted, but I doubt it. Or that women's basketball are customers of PP, Araski, Araberri, because I don't know, I don't know whether they are customers or not. I'd be happy to have them, wouldn't I? Or the Eharialdea women's handball. I'll be delighted that you're customers of the People's Party. I don't know, I don't know; but, anyway, I wouldn't have any inconvenience. You may be very upset. But these clubs were entitled, not because of what the government approved in February, but because of the budgetary rule, which Mr Azpiazu knows very well, which has also failed to comply with it. And then you tell me, "Let's see if we stop doing demagogy." Hey, but if you're an expert. Let's see, recent, but, expert. He's recently arrived, but he's, uh, he's an expert, man. You intend, that is, our tax proposal, neither arises nor speaks or so, and you want me to make amendments to this budget in the light of my tax proposal. That's cheating on the loner. That's cheating! Why didn't they want to agree with us on income and spending? You'll see how it squared, you'll see how it squared, how it squared in the 17th and 18th. But you have refused, you have refused to review the income. Don't come cheating on me in solitary. And it tells me that computer system. Hey, do you know how much money we spend on computer systems, on EJIE, a company? You Corame didn't know her. You don't have to... I study, Mr Ibarretxe, Vice-President of the Basque Government, to see the public sector... –too many thousand folios; so – all companies, entities, to see how they were, what was left... And it came out that there was one that had been left without social object. We said, "We closed it," and he said, "No, we changed the social object." His name was EJIE. It changes the social object and costs us more than 40 or 50 million euros a year, and then, in addition, each department spends a barbarity in computer science. Hey, it's gonna be a joke what you're telling me. He tells me our partners are cutting. Look, we have also made amendments that cut back on education and health: wasteful current expenditure. You're very upset about the changes in book purchases, travel, advertising, the ones we do, aren't they? If you looked at the execution of the budget, you would see that most of them run little or nothing and that money, in the end, the government, each department spends it on flowers – I was going to tell you something stupid. In flowers, he spends it on flowers. And, therefore, it can be cut. In fact, in some of them, after time, they listen to us and cut them, and cut them. This means that they can still be cut further, because if the Basque Government already cuts them motu proprio And he says, "Hey, I don't know why you're messing with RGI, which we already know is 2% fraud." This is me... It's fantastic! This one that someone knows how much they're defrauding you seems to me to be for a note, for a note. Because knowing we're being let down by 2% and who's letting down, I don't know why we're not at zero. Why do you think we're being let down by 2%? Because the counselor said so? Do you know all the fraudsters, do you know them? We've been asking for a good inspection of this for years. And don't you talk to me about empathizing with the least-favoured. The law we have today is passed by us, with the abstention of your party. Let him know. Us with those gentlemen. Not you, who abstained. And yes, it was to protect the most disadvantaged, but not to set us up. Why do you defend that you can cheat, 2%, 10, 15 in GIR and not fiscally? Because I don't advocate tax fraud. Not if it's too much or too little. I understand that public money has to be controlled. And I, comfortable life, for I will not say that I have not had, especially if you compare yourself and seeing what is going on in the world, but recognize me that for comfortable life those of the PNV during these 30 years. Accomodated, accomodated have lived almost all. And about the water cannon... See, you're going to charge the water intake, not the water consumption. And now he goes and tells me. And he tells me that's ecologically the best thing. And the waste, who pays it, the responsible one? No, no, That one doesn't pay, the responsible one doesn't pay. That's not very ecological. Tell me about Adostuz and the pre-retired teachers. But let's see, what we're left with. Either our amendments are very few, it is little money that we put forward in our amendments to this budget or we break the government with our amendments. What do we do? Because we have also proposed that the ESAs, social emergency aid, should be extended, for example, by setting an example. And the Christmas pay. Hey, you, it's for the record. Yeah, yeah. Rajoy's government cut the Christmas pay and returned. Do you know what was the last government in all of Spain that returned the Christmas pay to the officials? The Basque Government. Yours. Yours. This one. Moreover, this Government: the last to return the Christmas bonus to the officials was the Basque Government. The last one. And above all asking in Madrid that in the law of budgets it be put that still does not touch. Which is also for the note. So, so, I... Don't try to cheat on the loner. Don't ask me here to bring an alternative budget with income and spending. With the budget you have brought us, we have presented an alternative budget. Value it in the numbers you want, value Adostuz as you want, value the AES as you want. And I value the other amendments to the text as much as you want. But if it's so little, they could approve some.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u10	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. To answer, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, is your word. corcuer smooth And not by much repeating a lie becomes true. In the matter of taxation 2019, look at it from where it looks, the question of taxation does not touch until 2020. You know it; you were at the firm. Another thing is that I don't want to believe it, but I do. That's right. It will be evaluated in 2020. Appropriate decisions will be made. Until 2020, it won't play. And that's what you signed. You speak of non-compliance in your amendment as a whole. Were you not following the pact you made in 2017 with the Basque Government? Didn't you follow the pact you had for 2018 with the government? Well, there's a responsibility! You confirm one thing, and then you don't track him. You stumble twice on the same stone. Your amendment to the whole is a calc. A calc from 2019. Calcium. Only seven new paraphernalias. They've just adapted some data. Even poorly adapted. Family support has grown. They have increased from 46 million in 2017 to 80 million in 2020. What do you mean, it doesn't grow? On the family issue, the Basque Government is addressing the demographic problem. There is the IV Inter-institutional Family Support Plan, which includes a range of 35 actions in this area, which are being developed and implemented. In terms of parental leave, progress has been made as in the best regulations and the most advanced at European level. The Basque Pact for Families and Children is also relevant, and we also have it in Euskadi. The Basque Government has also committed itself to the elaboration of the 2030 Population Strategy, in which, in addition to the initiatives already under way, a series of new tractor actions in this area will be incorporated. With regard to free justice, which you also mention in your amendment as a whole, the breach of the agreement on free justice is false. It's false, Mr. Damborenea. You guys have done a bad clipping. The decree drawn up in competition with the Bar Schools of Euskadi has also received an award from the Bar College of Gipuzkoa. Free justice modules for crimes of violence against women have increased by 10 per cent. The new modules are being implemented with absolute rigour. Efforts are being made to improve the facilities of women's courts of violence. Soon, the facilities in Vitoria are inaugurated. With regard to the legal obligation to implement extended nominative grants, well, we have already spoken to satiety; we have been here in plenary. We have shown them, another thing is that they do not want to see it, we have shown them how they are implemented, how those nominative subsidies that go in the budget extension are managed. And it goes to the discretion of the departments whether or not they match their policies. Not because they have to be executed, not because they have to be executed. And tell your group, because they insist, insist. Then they won't get it. You can still make a mistake. With regard to the increase and consolidation of current expenditure, there is a first false premise, which I have not commented on before, but I do now. The 2020 budget, worth EUR 11,774 million, is not true that it is lower than that implemented in 2018, Mr Damborenea. That's not true! And I can say it with more campechan air: it's not true. But it doesn't matter; you insist, insist. Look, in spending arrangements, in 2018, 11,464 million euros were executed. I remind you, Budget 2020, 11,774, versus 11,464. Where is he underage? Hey, where's the kid? It's all right with the joke! You, in your amendments, also increase the amount of current grants or transfers. They tell us that we spend more on current expenditure, and you go with your amendments and also increase current expenditure, subsidies and current transfers. There's more investment. There is more investment in 2020 than in 2017 and 2018. From 837 million in 2017 and 923 million in 2018 we moved to 1,092 in 2020. That's data, that's reality and that's true data, even if you don't like it. There is no oblivion in public investment. And budget execution for 2018 ended at 97.2% of the budget. Finkatuz is one of two funds announced by the Government in July. This is one. There's another one. You're wrong to mess with the Finkatuz and why you have to be public-private. It's not this, it's not this the bottom, it's the other. Credit increases for modules in the education system. You're still... I understand that anyway, well, I'm gonna be smooth, they're still wrong. No, it's not. In the articulated text of the bill you know how the increase in educational modules, including the agreed one, comes. In the fields of research and innovation, this government... And in the social economy that has increased its stakes by 56%, they know that it has not let go. In research, development and innovation, you know that more than 5% of the agreement in the government programme has been increased by 5.44%. And I'm done. Income guarantee income. You said you knew some jets that were dedicated to this fraud. There's fraud. There's a prosecutor, too. There is social fraud, but there is also tax fraud. Do you know all those who fail when you say there's a fair percentage of tax fraud? Do you know all the fraudsters? No, right? Well, then we're talking about something... And, look, to me what I find very irritating and really that you can't get over some things is that you made a speech absolutely... an absolutely xenophobic, sectarian intervention, just like Mr. Maroto did. And what it is to have a jet, I finish now, President, what it is to have a jet is to collect bonus when one is not receiving income security income. That's what it's like to be a jet! That's what it's like to be a jet! I'm done. We are going to reject your amendment as a whole because we believe that this draft budget presents responsible, fair and redistributive budgets. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u12	sir: Thank you very much. Well, I'll start with the end of Mrs. Corcuera. Xenophobic, yes, xenophobic, because you have said, and I have pointed out it word for word: "Foreigners are the most prepared"; you have said it with sorrow, "those who have the most titles". Those of us who have access to this rostrum must speak very carefully, very carefully, and do more pedagogy and less demagogy. Well, I, while I was talking, some of them already had them pointed in advance because they're flaws to the truth that come... I'm going to tell lies, right?, because this use of euphemisms... lies that came in your amendment to the whole and others I pointed them out while you were talking. And it's a compilation, a top ten The first, nominative subsidies are mandatory. It's a lie. You have to mediate, man, you have to mediate a positive administrative action for them to be executed. The second one, she was talking about the concert. I haven't commented on it before because I missed it. In February, the budget law on urgent measures increased by 2.5%. And the rise in the salaries of those who work at the concertate has been the same this year as that of those who work in the civil service. The third, you said, you say this already..., you did not say it in your speech, you say it in the amendment to the whole, that the budget implemented for 2018 is greater than that of the draft budgets that the government sent to this House. And one goes to the data and has: "Execution of the expenditure budget, December 2018, 11,464 million euros". That is to say, about two hundred and a half, three hundred and millions of euros below the budget implemented in the 18th. Fourth, they say that family policies have not been implemented, that increases... the agreed increases have not been implemented and there has been a decrease in the executed items. Again we go to the data and we have... –I don't have the curve; but, come on, we can... we could easily visualize it. In 2004, 46 million were offered as financial assistance to families with sons and daughters, and 80 million are planned for 20. Almost doubled. Almost doubled and, in addition, the increase is very significant every year, above 10%. More. You say: "The current expenditure increase is increased by 89 million euros". There are only nine, only nine of them are for increase in GIR. You say that the rise is huge: 9 million euros. Then, in the water covenant. The truth of the water pact is that I have it quite fresh, because I'm going to be the one to discuss it with his partner López de Ocariz on Friday, and I explain it in two sentences. There are three legs: domestic harvesting, industrial harvesting and agriculture. For the farm there was a moratorium in 2007 adopted by this Parliament, and for the domestic there was no moratorium, but it was not being charged; it is going to be charged by capture. And it makes sense to do so. That increase in the 233% rate has been taken out of the joke. They also referred, in their amendment to the whole, to the freezing of the heading intended for free justice. It's fake. They talk – Mrs.Llanos will know about this – that since 2018 the decree is frozen, which is uncertain. Every year more money is allocated, and the decree is working without any problem. Then, the inexecutions, which is a usual criticism that you make, that the level of inexecutions is high. Well, I've got the apartment table here by apartment. The average is more than 97%, the department that runs the least is 89%. And, indeed, the line that runs the least is that of the high-speed train. But, man, don't make me here the little walk show that if it's been the PSOE, that if it's been the PP. You've ruled for a lot of years, and executions in the TAV have always been low. And the tenth, the issue of the extra pay. Look, the extra pay the Basque government was willing to do it first, and it didn't because your government, the budget law you passed, didn't allow it; it didn't allow it... We understand that a solid political position always earns more than a weak one, and that this cheap demagogy, this xenophobic dye that you show in your statements, of course, does no favor to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u13	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The Representative of the EH Group has the word to defend its full correction. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u14	Yes, thank you. Good morning, everyone. The second half of 2019 is being prodigal in signals of a cycle change in the global economy. It has already been assumed that, at best, we will have to face a slowdown in the economy, if not an even greater blow. In October, the IMF generally lowered forecasts for major economies. For our part, the 2.2% growth expected by the Basque Government for 2019 is the lowest in our community since the end of 2014. And next year's forecast lowers this figure to 2%. These figures, without indicating an imminent recession, do indicate a clear trend towards slowing economic growth. After the great recession, this global slowdown is already underway, and it is the short-term economic framework of a more complex bottom-up global reality, which is starred by four fundamental vectors that define the structural evolution of the situation: two crises, one revolution and one disruption. The two crises, the ecological and that of inequality. The revolution, the feminist. Disruption, technology. We will briefly review these macrotendencies of global transformation, not by intellectual curiosity, but by the realization that these global phenomena completely determine reality, also our reality, and are the unspeakable framework from which any analysis that wants to be effective must start. We will start with the ecological crisis, as its satisfactory resolution is a sine qua non. The second major crisis is that of economic inequality. The struggle of the working class and the existence of an apparently feasible countermodel led to sustained economic growth in Western countries during the decades following World War II, accompanied by an unprecedentedly balanced distribution of benefits. The defeat of the socialist bloc in the Cold War and the subsequent neoliberal hegemony have reversed this distribution, and we again witness a brutal concentration of wealth, which translates into exponential growth in the number of billionaires and their power. While, as the OECD itself recently warned, the middle class is contracting for forced marches and increasing social exclusion. Societies become polarized, the majority lose rights and resources. Democracy is unravelled in the face of powers in the shadow, and the elites impose their agenda on a political class that is subject to: wage cuts, tax cuts for the rich, and the support of the dwindling public services in charge of pressure on the lower classes. The prevailing malaise makes the discourses facing the poor stronger, supported by an economic power that encourages these ultra pseudo-solutions as an antidote to an analysis that proposes to reverse the unjust distribution of wealth. The feminist revolution, on the other hand, is something that makes sense at this time. The most important phenomenon that has affected us to live to whom we are alive today. The deepest socio-cultural change in the history of humanity, because it affects the status of half of its components, which has become aware of its absolute and irrefutable equality and of the need to apply that equality to all facets of life. This struggle empowers women and challenges men, because it forces us to renounce acquired privileges. But it forces all to make an effort to detect and deconstruct the social, mental, economic and other structures generated under the framework of patriarchy. A revolution that still faces many battles until it achieves the ultimate and radical goal of equality among all people. And finally, in the field of technology, it should only be noted here that we are facing an imminent future in which technological changes will be so profound that they will alter the productive processes and generate new opportunities. But also dangers and challenges of a dimension never seen: artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things, quantum computing, biotechnology, new energy sources, will change our way of understanding the economy and society, of understanding the world. These global phenomena affect us, they have an immediate translation. And we have to make decisions about these phenomena here and now, also in the context of the budgetary debate. Because they ask us to choose our place before the dichotomies that pose us. Will we fight climate change and the ecological transition or will we fall into negationism? Or in that light form Not that paradigm changes happen, but that change is the new paradigm. This obliges us to a permanent exercise of adaptation, resilience, foresight and proactivity. The situation requires analytical capacity to detect problems, capacity to formulate strategies, with medium and long-term vision, and ability to articulate the plurality of actors involved in shared dynamics. It requires, in short, leadership. An attitude diametrically opposed to that of a Basque Government that strives to deny problems while it can, attributing responsibility to others or claiming that in Spain they are worse, when problems are already undeniable, and to appear to do things instead of facing the underlying problems, with the intention of not touching their neoliberal dogmas. The crisis in 2008 has been extremely important. During crisis time, the remunerations have multiplied. And when the crisis is over, these resolutions continue to work. We can't recover the ethovnat, we won't recover the previous state, with all its deficiencies, just for the sake of mere growth. The growth has returned, but not the rights, because they have changed the rules of the game. This new reality demands new answers, and politics must give proper and effective answers. Otherwise, the answers will be sought elsewhere in rage and self-discipline, but not in democracy. PNV believes in the theory of the minimal state: The economy thinks it's business. And he also uses old conceptions, which are not already useful in a world that has changed. We're in a real reality, we're in a new reality, and we can't play ostrich. The mere economic growth will not contribute to the improvements of the economic elites, because they have sabotaged the pay and taxes, and consequently it would have to be the work of public power to activate the dynamics of reconstructing those systems. But unfortunately, that's not the way we do it. It's disappointing to see that after the social tax has been lowered, the sectors of the right Basque have already started trying to deactivate the tax. It's disappointing to see you run away from the conversation of your wages, get ready to keep the minimum pay of 1,200, so that you won't push the Factic. Instead of looking for arguments, instead of looking for gaps to set up. The weight of Soldate has descended 1,8 points from 2012, that is, from the entrance of Urkullu into the government to 2017. We've been robbed for 1,8 points on the sod. That's what I'm talking about when the rains are in the glass, or when Machadok (the great Machado) wrote, "Motonía de lluvia los cristales." In the season of the Urkullu, we have receded in several strategic respects. Four significant examples: The medical investment in the EAE budget, 2012, was the 5th,17 of the raw internal product, 2020 in budget, 483. Back in health. Education investment in 2012, 3,89, 2020 funds, 3.53. Back in education. In research and development, 2012, 2,09, 2020... Excuse me, this is the date of 1,85, 2018. Back in research. And the weight of budget, as a whole economy, repels it: In 2012, budgets were supposed to be the 14,4 of the raw internal procedure, and in this budget project the 13ths. Back in public expense too. There are more troubling data. We've often accused him of comparing our community's data to other communities. We believe that the most developed countries are needed socially and economically. But doing this is also dangerous. It is dangerous to take the state as a reference frame, when you choose a pattern, because you will eventually resemble it. And that's what's happening to us. Our historic leadership has already disappeared into various areas. Madrid's ahead of us, per capita. Not only are there bad results in comparison with the state; there are many other indicators that are illuminated with red light. The government emphasises that the unemployment rate of the VAC is 9,2 % – the councillor has stressed it today – that the unemployment rate of the VAC is 9,2 %. But that 9.2% is a very high rate for the European Union, very high. The European Union has an average unemployment rate of 6.3, an average. Only Greece, Italy and Spain are behind that Basque 9.2%. Worse still, even worse, while in the European Union the current unemployment rate is the lowest in history, in the CAV we tripled the best record we achieved in 2007 with 3.1. And then they tell us that "I have fulfilled the goal of the legislature" – a small objective – and that is not to mention the increasing precariousness of the labour market. In 2018, more than one million contracts were signed, but nine out of ten were temporary; half with a duration of less than or equal to one month. Big way. All negative indicators – unemployment, poverty, precariousness, temporaryity – are aggravated for women, who have a personal income of 23.5 % lower, a difference that is multiplying among pensioners. According to the Poverty and Social Inequalities Survey, poverty and the risk of poverty are rising. There are already 172,000 people at risk of poverty, 14% more than in 2016, despite years of growth; and 41% more than in 2008. Do you remember the story of the three pigs? One made his house of straw, another of wood and the third of bricks. Something like this has happened with the impact of the crisis on the different economies of the different states. Everyone has felt the wolf's breath, the hurricane of the crisis, but the degree of impact has been different depending on the strength of the pre-existing economic structures. The strongest economies, after the 2008-2009 cyclone, were recovering GDP as early as 2010-2011. The Spanish State did not do so until 2017. His economic house was straw. Our wooden one. The worst is that we are now gathering the timber to rebuild a house of boards and sticks, instead of taking advantage of the 2008 catharsis to rethink the country and make bets to strengthen our model, moving towards a productive fabric based on the cutting-edge industry and knowledge, which does not leave behind people or regions. But for that to happen, political leadership was needed, and that was not the case. Here tourism grows more than industry. And the government is fine with it. We have a government that pays more to its police than to its scientists or its teachers, that rakes the salary and denies stability to the research staff, that keeps its university public in minimums, that sends predoctoral students abroad with scholarships of misery, so that they are both doctoral students and waiters. We have rents higher than many wages. We have come down to the third European innovation division. And in R & D effort we are closer to Spain than to Germany. We are leading the loss of purchasing power of wages in the state. We have a country where its rulers work harder in what Chomsky called "making consent" than in the actual resolution of problems. A country in which the ubiquitous presence of the government in the media and the concatenation of properly magnified inconsequential events seeks to generate the image of the "Euskadi goes well". In this country, young people are mobilized to have a planet on which to live their future, while the backpack we put their elders on their backs is Glovo's yellow backpack. Demography challenge is as disturbing as an example of failure. Don't pay attention to all the warnings and warnings, the situation is over, without making any definite diagnosis, without any appropriate focus, without applying any form measure, without educating the productive complicity with the socialists. While they call us Euscadi va bien, we have ceased to be children, and returned to the womb after the war. But as they're short-assed in this government, the budgets of this year have collected and grafted in a speech like veneer, not in budgets. Three disguises have been tried to put on the budget. green, purple, and red. I believe that the social pessimism of these budgets is proved by all the data which has hitherto been given, for the same economic policies which have hitherto been developed are collected, and we have just seen the results. Mozorro moreaz beasts eztabaidetan hitz egiteko aukera izango dugu. Azter's disappointed in the Berdean Mozor Orin. 20% of the so-called green package falls from withdrawal: 510 million. Of the 510 million, 100, who are dedicated to VAD, contrary to what the councilwoman expressed in the committee. And beyond the discussion of whether these investments are climate friendly or not, what is clear is that they are not investments to compute to the Basque Government; in any case, to the Madrid Government. And if the Basque Government is to be reckoned with, it would have to be agreed that there have been much more ambitious budgets in this legislature to respond to climate change, such as in 2017, when the departure of the TAV – this ecological, supposedly ecological departure – was 355 million. It is not normal to include a Renove plan to cover the purchase of diesel and petrol vehicles as a part of the climate change agenda. And there are many other games of very dubious lace, such as those designed to organize industrial soils or to support slopes. The thing about supporting slopes was about sustainability. It is not acceptable to include consignments for the exploitation of hydrocarbons, such as those dedicated to Shesa. It's not a green budget. And squandering the contribution that We can make to the section that they themselves have called adaptation to climate change The main contribution of Podemos to the green budget is truly glorious, because it has been to endorse a cut in the funds intended to finance the energy transition of the administrations. We may not have achieved 100 million to finance the energy sustainability of public administrations, what we may have achieved is that the government can postpone the implementation of a legally binding mandate. They have reapplied a twisted version of the foral pass with the Law on Energy Sustainability of Public Administrations. I am not going to say that you have applied the foral pass, because this concept of foral pass is clothed with dignity. What you have done can be called the "forral step", because you pass through the lining what the law collects. They again deactivate, as they have done with the RGI, through the Budgets Act, the improvements achieved in the fight for ecology, and they inapply an article of the law, which, strictly, determines the creation of a financial instrument that will be constituted with 100 million in this exercise, and not in 2027. They are helping the Government to do things wrong in the fight against climate change. They are supporting their strategy of turning into a political marketing issue, which is a matter of survival for the planet. They legitimize the government's false green speech and facilitate it to evade its responsibilities. And since we're talking about cuts sponsored by Podemos, let's move on to the one registered in the RGI. Imagine that they have an employment agreement in force that includes a 5% wage increase. The company, although having profits, unilaterally decides to raise their salary by only 1 %. How would you consider that decision, an ascent to celebrate, even if not all that was agreed upon, or an illegitimate cut in your rights, which requires a mobilizing response? In Podemos they have celebrated the cut of the RGI. So I guess for them the valid answer is the first. The reduction of the rights contained in the income guarantee law, approved by the PNV and endorsed by Podemos-EQUO, does not correspond to a moment of budgetary tension or economic tightening, but to an ideological decision. It is cut and the Urkullu government cuts down on the most needy, because it believes that they are given much. And that's the key. You believe that they are given, because we are faced with a almsy logic and not a logic of rights. The society conquered, after a popular struggle, culminated with the partial institutional acceptance of the demand, the right to a guaranteed minimum income, not subdued, guaranteed for all people. And that seems too much to this government. They have transmuted a right into an obscene annual auction, in which it seems that the income of the most needy people can be referred, not to their basic needs, but to the policy of budgetary alliances of the Government. We can have a bad deal with the PNV, not because it's agreement or because it's PNV, but because it's bad. In exchange for 100 million in two years, the other 100 million, as has already been shown, are those that are bound to comply with the Energy Sustainability Act, and are tied to the PNV for the rest of the legislature. It is a lower negotiating capacity than that of the People's Party, which took 40 million; but, in addition, a fiscal reform of its taste and support for Rajoy's budgets, which seems to me to be a much more consistent baggage than its own. But that's not the worst. The worst is that we can, to justify a political decision, change your orientation, I don't know if tactical or strategic "The PNV representative was talking about a change of strategy," but to justify his changes, he is washing his face to the PNV. They are collaborating in legitimizing the policies of the PNV, scrimmaging a supposed ecological, feminist and social shift in budgets, which no one sees. Idoia Mendia settled the debate with roundness, when asked about this supposed turn that, by the way, the journalist in the question itself, described as deception. Idoia Mendia says The ELA union wondered what has changed, budgets or Podemos. I do not think there is anyone in this House or in the whole country who doubts what the answer is, even if some do not have the political maturity to recognize it. For the irresponsibility of Podemos, by granting the label Fortunately, everyone has the credibility he has, and the Basque left have done more complicated things. EHGGA gives rise to strong public policies, to accommodate to the new and fundamental reality which we have as society, and to provide for protection and opportunity, and to secure a fair distribution of wealth. This requires changes; in some cases structural. These, in our opinion, are some which must be underlined and answered: The first, the new attorney and financer of the course, in response to the romances which we have as a people, is to abandon the extreme political policy and to force new economic policies. Strengthening social motion, adapting the production model or applying the challenge produced by the ecological transition. We have opportunity and need to strengthen public expenditure, the financial situation of the EAE Administration allows us to take other measures in the attorney and financial policy, while the other is defending this dogma of the limits of deficit zero. It is therefore necessary, therefore, to agree and put on the new course of debt and defence, designed here for new revenues. Second, high-quality employment. It is necessary to make a step forward in this strategic artery, to give a firm answer to the extended preventive predominance of structure. It is also necessary that we should have a model of works closely connected with our social social reality and the model of production, and for this purpose receive new powers immediately, in cases of passive employment. But right now, I'm sure it'll take initiative, even in so short a time, to make it work, like the commitment to a minimum salary of 1,200% of all public contracts and contracting with public money, or 1200 dollars at least EAE's minimum salary de facto. Third, where we can face climateal emergency, we need to force the transformive local projects. This is why it is important that bold and modern measures should be established in this area, and that, among other things, a financial instrument to promote local administrations, as has been defined by the law, with 100 million a year. Four, the change in the production model. To win the future in this strategic bet section three percent of raw internal procedure and three percent of development, strengthening the funds for the root of the main companies, and linking their commitment or carrying digitalization to small and average companies if there are some leading initiatives to perform. Five, the public care of confessing and regulating the work of care. In particular, the state of the care-makers is pitiful and denounced: feminised, pretor and rejected, often rendered invisible. There is no way forward in the way of equality without adopting any changeable decision about the watch pattern. It is therefore a duty to assume the responsibility due to public institutions, to value the condition of the sector, and to guarantee the social services of care. Six, backup system compact and complete. The uncertainty and insecurity of new reality make direct opposition to our defense system, and exposes its privations and gaps. It is therefore necessary to adapt to the new state that the development of public systems is necessary, for instance, to prevent the reduction of the revenue, to bring back new resources to strengthen the level of security, the security of society, in order to do something in order to defray the pensions, or in order to do something more, or to provide for money to develop significant policies, such as the housing policy. And strengthening reference services of quality. When we have been in the object of reduction for years, weakened, and, in respect of quality, public services fall into decay. The workman has also been reduced, either by obedience to the promise of the state, or by using it as an excuse. The rate of provisionalness is also terrible, within 40 percent. Changing the course is urgent, paying special attention to the survival of the workers during the production of generations. Even in education, a change of direction is indispensable, and a preference to an advanced pattern. Not forgetting that we're in a budget argument, it's very important to put them in place and join the other files in the public policy puzzle. As a matter of fact, there are budgets that have the most significant public policies that have been developed in the year, but not the only one. If we really want the political subject that wants to protect and protect its own people, the Basque Republic is our wager, and all the elements of politics must be in the hands of that subject. For we cannot forget that to be significant public policies is to have adequate rights, since in the case of EAE it is necessary to get news. And in conclusion, today's tool for being significant public policies is also indispensable. In our case, a new political state, founded on the mutual relations of the same. It's not a whim. The absence of these instruments in the sobarian world, for example, is serious. Many times the coherence and efficiency are lost, and we have no power to reach what unjust circumstances there are, without these functions. And often, too, there's that handful of handbags that don't give you any trouble about the chances that are in your hands. But, in any case, when we look into the state we have, by the associations of strength, and by the strength and dymism which are in society, there is no doubt but that it would be to improve the conditions of men's lives. The draft budget for 2020 is a clear exponent of the short-term and inertial vision of the Basque Government, and, more than ever, is an exponent of its commitment to political marketing, above real policies. We are faced with the same product in different wrapper. They have redesigned the boat, and painted some green, purple and red traces to direct it to a new market segment. But if we read the composition, we see that the product is exactly the same. The ingredients are the same and in the same proportion. We have not yet returned to the 2008 situation, even with all the shortcomings that, of course, also existed at that time. But we have missed five years of strong global growth to close the socio-economic wounds left by the crisis. With this budget, we will also miss another year, 2020. We need yes, we need a shield to face the times ahead, a shield to protect people, but not a shield of words and headlines, but a shield of determined economic resources and policies. We need a public service system that involves a shared security network, which guarantees basic rights and material resources to the entire population, the best health and education system that allows everyone to deploy their capacities, regardless of their socio-economic status. We need ambitious green transition policies to address climate change and the biodiversity crisis. We need public institutions to increase their efforts for effective equality between men and women. We need a boost to the productive system so that our industry can cope with the colossal process of disruptive transmutation involving globalization and technological development. Through social struggle, mobilization, denunciation and proposal, and also from institutional political action, we are gaining hegemony in the discourse: ecological transition, business roots, R & D, disadvantaged regions, defence of small trade, equality... The terminology of people who want change and future is being imposed. Now it is necessary to put numbers to these letters, but this draft budgets does not take that step, and we are presented as a clone of previous budgets. That's why we say no to these budgets, because we and we don't drink with marketing or cuts. We want real commitments, not words. The firmness of the present is the seed of real changes in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u15	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. On the other hand, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u16	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Look, I have to admit that the Basque Socialist Group had doubts about the turn to speak in the debate on the whole amendment presented to us by Euskal Herria Bildu. We doubted whether to intervene in the explanation of vote or in the turn against; because, reading the text justifying the return of budgets, we understood that its amendment to the whole was not to the budgets of the Government, which we share with the Basque Nationalists and Socialists, but rather that it is an amendment to the whole by another parliamentary group which they do not mention. Come on, it's more designed for a debate with Podemos and Equo, sharpening their budget agreement with the government more than anything else. And by reading the text, what you are presenting is also an amendment to the entire Statute of Gernika, because we are being explained how much better it would be Euskadi with a Basque republic, we do not know whether with Navarra, with Iparralde or with whom, because there they do not deepen. And since these matters are part of our analysis in the self-government paper, and since there is not a single euro in the budgets that has to do with this matter, with sovereignist positions, it could make us think that it was enough to explain the vote simply. But no, the Socialists are going to justify, once again, the need for these accounts to go forward in order to strengthen the government programme in which we were involved three years ago, to strengthen public services, the economy, employment, innovation and social protection, and we are going to reject their amendment to return budgets to strengthen one of the most valuable goods, also appreciated by citizens, such as stability, stability and coherence in public policies that protect our rights and make us progress together with nationalists and non-nationalists. And I want to start with a phrase in the amendment that we share, because it says Euskal Herria Bildu that every effort is taken, it often loses coherence and effectiveness, and we are left with no hints to address the gaps and unfair situations that exist. It is true, when from each party we strive to convince people to vote for us and citizenship does not give us absolute majority in the ballot box, because citizenship forces us to agree, and when we agree we have to see parts of reason in others and when we do we have to reach a meeting point in order, from there, to be able to move forward. When the Basque Socialists agree, we assume that we cannot carry our entire programme forward and what we do is to direct public policies as closely as possible to our proposals, even if this means moving forward more slowly. This is how we have been leading the Government's action towards a strengthening of the public in order to advance in social cohesion and to such an extent that today almost everyone is defined as a social democrat. But that is how progress is being made, and that is called the principle of reality and in that expression I have quoted from the amendment by Euskal Herria Bildu you are giving up. Anything that is not yours, anything that is not keeping the essences, anything that involves effort to agree, according to you, results in a loss of coherence. That is what happens to Euskal Herria Bildu and what does not happen to the Basque Socialists, because to us to agree with other parliamentary groups does not take away half a gram of coherence; on the contrary, reaching agreements in this Parliament, in the General Councils or in the Government of Spain allows us to maintain a thread of complementarity of the policies in which we participate. On the other hand, to the left abertzale, the agreement, leaving hairs in the catera, does remove coherence, because Euskal Herria Bildu has decided that it is only possible to reach consensus from the maximum that they are given reason in everything or there is no possible agreement, and the agreement does not remove effectiveness from the policies. It may not make 100% of an electoral programme of its own viable; but it is certainly far more effective for Basque citizens to agree on an annual budget that is adapted to the needs, emergencies and priorities of that citizen than to cause an extension. It is more effective to make it possible to achieve programmes and actions planned from consensual strategies by consolidating public policies, promoting the economy and creating quality jobs and deepening social cohesion, than to return that budget to the drawer, resulting in a budgetary extension. It is far more effective to use the economic resources obtained through progressive fiscal reform in public services than not to agree on the revenue or expenditure of a budget. It is much more effective for people to have more employment opportunities than to leave a country stranded waiting for what one and only one wants to do. Euskal Herria Bildu shows, once again, the vertigo in front of the important milestones, a vertigo that he demonstrated last year when he did dare to speak, when he had the open door of the socialist headquarters, the first one that was opened to him, so that we could talk about how to guide budget lines, when he then had the whole government to put it into practice. And when Euskal Herria Bildu suddenly looked at the electoral calendar, he took care of influencing headlines and forgot to influence people's lives. The Basque Socialist Group can only share the starting diagnosis of Euskal Herria Bildu, the enormous concern for an inequity that needs new answers, but what we do not share with you are the positions that are taken in the face of solutions such as income-guarantee reform, by wanting to leave it stuck in the drawer of unresolved parliamentary affairs. We share the concern for the great risks and uncertainties that haunt us, for the totalitarian virus that expands where no solutions are offered, but our response to this from Euskadi is a budget for 2020 with which it acts directly. The answer is not the Basque Republic. You put your lives at the center of politics... No, you put the homeland above life. We are talking about a tax reform, yes, and we also share it, and next year we will return to that issue, but it is a desideratum that you will not then transfer to your partial amendments. They talk about raising the minimum wage and we share it too, because where you can compete you will do it. If there is a socialist government in Spain it will be done, but where you cannot compete, as Bildu has not done when he has had government powers, because it is not done and cannot be done, you know it, and by much insisting and repeating that issue you will not make it possible. When there is no competence, there is no competence, Mr Casanova. They talk about working against job insecurity and overlook that for three years now we have turned all the resources of the Labour Inspectorate into this task, which more than 13,000 people have regularized their contracts thanks to the action led by the Department of Labour. They talk about measures for an ecological transition in the face of the climate emergency and we share it, it is in the government program, and it is in the direction of Mr Arriola's department, among others. What is difficult to understand is that this is an argument for returning budgets, when the regulatory path to making it possible is already under way and its partial amendments are also far, quantitatively, from endorsing its amendment as a whole. They're talking about rooting out businesses. And we have a shared tour, Mr. Casanova, with the design of Finkatuz. They talk about 3% of gross domestic product to invest in innovation and research. And that, you know, that's a goal we share, but you know that that's impossible to get from a pen. That is why we Socialists proposed a gradual increase of at least 5% per year in the last parliamentary term. And Euskal Herria Bildu shared it. And that is why it is so difficult to understand that they are committed, year after year, to these amendments, in the end, to amending themselves. But, finally, I have the feeling that before you it is quite a waste of effort to try to argue budgetaryly why these accounts should go forward. It is a feeling that cannot be avoided when the amendment to the whole is held out of our competence or, at least, on the demand for independence, as is the case. What we Socialists are clear about is that when we vote and reject the full amendments to the 2020 budgets, we will be able to tell citizens that they will have budgets that support our public services and our social protection model, that support the employment plans that we have already designed for the entire legislature, that climate challenges are met and that equality is achieved through all policies. When this procedure passes to the last accounts of this legislature, the Socialists will be able to tell the citizenry that it has been worth getting involved without complexes in the governance of Euskadi, to offer them the stability they needed. And that, despite the bad omens, launched three years ago, all the weaknesses and calamities announced have been erased by the reality of the facts. And the reality is that Basques, than Basques, are better equipped today to face any uncertainty. And that is why we are going to vote against the amendment to the whole of which Euskal Herria Bildu has tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. The word is yours, Mr. Barrieves, Eubertarians.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u18	Thank you again, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Casanova, you've given us a speech from the privileged observer's watchroom, full of great words. I have pointed out here prospective, catharsis, paradigm, historical leadership, neoliberal dogma... But the remaining pose is that there is still an abertzale left without maturing at the front... Yes, yes... at the head of the opposition in Euskadi. What you've done has been to gather all the slogans that populate the Euskadi banners and have brought them here, but as slogans. The truth is that this year they have had no willingness to agree. And it has to be frustrating, doesn't it?, face, for someone who, possibly, is possible, like you, a budget negotiation, and say, "Well, how do we say no to the government? How do we say no to the government this year, without sounding repetitive?" This past year they had it a little harder; they endured a little more at the negotiating table; because, at that point, the People's Party and Elkarrekin Podemos left before the negotiation and felt a certain vertigo. A certain vertigo, which ended up in nothing, because almost a few minutes before the amendment was tabled, they withdrew. They withdrew their support for the budgets, and presented the amendment as a whole. They did not have any willingness to agree; because, if they had, they would have resumed last year's budget negotiation, where they remained at 40 euros away per GIR collector. And this year, that we have a 3% more chance of spending on current expenditure, because we were going to amortize a little less debt, you could have said, "Well, we're going to cover that 40 euros. And we're going to try to squeeze the government, so we can reach last year's budget agreement." A budgetary agreement which, in short, is not a good negotiator's adelicate either. Because, seeing the numbers – I say this because you now blame Elkarrekin We may not have done a good budget negotiation in the 201 million euros achieved – in the economic valuation of the offer agreement made to Bildu by the government, which is public, almost half... sorry, one third of the 142 million was in sustainable investments; that is, they were only going to be given if the collection went beyond what was expected. Therefore, from the "no" to the budgets, you have tried to dress your "no" to negotiate, not to enter into a budget negotiation, saying something like that the government cheats on its marketing, right?; that they have set him a purple, green cellophane, which they have made greenwhashing, Deia Its position in these budgets is described in three documents. The first is the one presented by ELA: "Vasco Government's Basque budget in 2020. No left turn." Then there's yours, zuen jarraibideak, 2020ko aurrekontuen inguruan. And then there are your amendments. And the first thing that attracts attention is the huge gap between the guidelines and the amendments tabled; what you criticize the government; what you say is green paint, purple, pure marketing, is what you see in your amendments. Because, the exercise of tabling amendments, it's a kind of exercise of "algodon don't cheat," isn't it? One thing is the poetry that is seen in its guidelines and another is the prose. And you are always good in philosophy. And you also know philosophy, Mr. Casanova. But then, when you're going to change your prose, you've got the main problem. And that has been revealed once more, hasn't it? You say that the government does pyrotechnic and marqueine, but then you leave them there at least 90% of their demands in order to correct them from their instructions? Let's start with the minimum interprofessional salary of 1,200 euros. You have not tabled any amendments; zero amendments to this budget. And they demand two things: the social clauses, which you when you were in Navarre did not apply in the law of public procurement with us, with us. But it is not a proposal that makes the PNV, it is a proposal that makes EH Bildu; it was not consistent when they ruled in Navarre. And the second, they ask the government for an appeal on salary recovery. And I don't know if we live in different countries, but I have selected three news, from three different means, so that there is no bias. The first is News from Gipuzkoa The Journal Tribune Europe And in the area of collective agreements, you know that there are two parties: one is the employer and the other is the trade unions. And this party does not align – and neither does the government – in any trench, as you do, but we are starting from an objective and intellectual honesty point of view. And in this sense, since you are so attentive to HER, you could ask for a certain reciprocity, because who has played in this country the worse, the better? Who has played to break the negotiations, to make the situation worse? It was her. Therefore, since you are very much paying attention to this union, I would ask you for some reciprocity. In the camp of poverty, we argued here last week, and there are many challenges and many challenges to reflect, but there are two things that are true first. One, we lost a bit of Gina's hair in the index, and we've got a little more of our eyebrows, but we're still handsome in the photo, we're handsome in the picture. And secondly, that it is a tendency throughout the world, that is to say, that the citizens who move in this degree of poverty have rendered it worse for the last two years. And there would be long reflections, but among the things we can do, for example your party in the Reformation of the RGI will leave the banner? Don't bring me the first one, but will he make some effort to handle it? You've even mentioned the FOSSA report, you've failed. FASSA says a lot of things. It's true we have some strength and some weakness, but in general the picture is not so bad. We're from you and from you, I think we should do what's in our hand to get this thing back, right? In the area of pensions, they propose EUR 50 million. Well, last year they were offered 48 million euros, almost the whole of what they are proposing this year as an amendment, which again shows their agreement vertigo. And in this area, I, who am from the PNV, am not from the government, I can, well, we can make it clear that the only party that pushed the Rajoy government to postpone the factor of revaluing pensions was the Basque Nationalist Party with its six congressmen in Madrid. Then comes the industry. Let us see, you, practically since I am in this Parliament, possibly from before, have made a grand speech about industry and the government's intervention in industry. Well, you've proposed 12 million euros for the Finkatuz fund. No more, 12 million euros. You insist that you have to buy La Naval, that participation in Euskaltel you have to raise it, that you have to have an important participation to have someone from the government on the boards of directors above 3 or 5%, depending on the company. In other words, there must be a strong and important involvement in all strategic sectors. And you are proposing EUR 12 million. I do not know how to buy 10% of Iguria de Elorrio, but not much more, will it? Today's world is becoming more and more complex, and today the economy is not planned as it was in the Soviet Union. It is about doing what I said before, what I said before to Mr Damborenea, an economic ecosystem where ideas germinate and where companies are doing well. The Finkatuz fund is certainly a step forward, but it's not going to be, it doesn't have to be, the last. In the environmental proposal, you say the government's grenwashing- I don't know, I'm talking about it, but I don't think it came to $700,000. From that point on, you mention that in the law of extreme suffering in speech, you know, 100 million predictable. And here... I now live in Bilbo, and I'm naked. Around the RGI, you say there were cuts. And it's true, in 2012, he collected 7,5, narrowed, but since then all that record is over. And when you say... No, no, you didn't say, you've done your interference more carefully, but when you mention, "Jo, there'll be fewer recipients for the next year." Well, well... Hallelujah! Hallelujah! That's a good thing, isn't it? If conditions are equal and there are fewer recipients, it'll be a good thing. It's what's made up... The government planned 2%, it's gonna go up 4%, and I think that's gonna be good for the town, right? And finally, in the circle of equality. Well, we've put on a violet cello. Look, the only factor you're talking about in all of your corrections is watchouts, and it's gonna be a very nice factor, why in demonstrations, moons, guarding and placing the middle person around and playing roles. Simplifying the problems and antagonizing the political opponent without offering solutions that can be put into practice is easy, but the second party in Euskadi must be asked for something more. During these 40 years there have been many lehendakaris, many political contexts and none of them have been able to count on the abertzale left. I would really like – our group would like – to have you in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. Bar Barbars. In answer, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u20	Egun on, scream. I will start with Mrs Corcuera, although I must admit that discussing budgets with the Socialist Party of Euskadi is a somewhat strange experience, isn't it? Yes, because, look, in the animal world there are a number of migrations that are known, right?, the monarch butterfly, the Arctic charran, the salmon... But I think there's one we all know, which is that of the Serengeti ñu, which comes out at National Geographic. How many times will we not have slept with those pictures of the ñus passing the river! There is always a crocodile, which also works for National Geographic, which eats the ñu that falls when passing the embankment. In the Basque political sphere there is a migration of the same epic dimensions as those of the ñus of the Serengeti, which is that of the Basque socialist when the time of budgetary debate comes. You are there, in your meadows, – and understand about animals without any kind of pejorative, political animal in the Aristotelian sense –... you are in the budgetary meadows, and when the first glasses of debate fall, you escape and spend a couple of months in other unknown territories, territories of the right to decide, of the new status, of governability in Madrid... But it's not about budgets or mu. And then they come back, and they ask the PNV, "Hey, what happened? What happened?" "With these we have approved." And they come here and send you or Mrs. Castelo with the unbreakable faith and the strength of a Templar warrior to defend what the PNV has decided and you, no matter what you do, PP... But this year, who are you going with? Come on, babe, get Bildu, come on... Hey, I think you'd better... And he mentioned last year's debate. It was not you who called us; it was we who touched your door with the naive intention that, being a party that was said on the left and understanding that the proposals we put forward were on the left and that they should please us, as we were recognized, even in public, that they were the interesting proposals, for we understood that we were going to seek an accomplice, an accomplice in the positive sense of the word, that we were going to find complicity in another party of the left to put together pressure on the Basque Nationalist Party and that we were going to get those reasonable and desirable objectives from a left perspective, which we theoretically shared, to go forward. But no, they were with us and then migrated, migrated and appeared as always late, and then with the facts already accomplished. And I'm going to do a reflection and I'm going to start with a self-criticism as well as Euskal Herria Bildu, because I'm included in the criticism. How is it possible that in this country we have 51% of the votes in this House, 38 out of 75 parliamentarians, and in the budgets the PSOE determines the four and peak percent of its three departments? Because it does not move a coma outside of them, and the Podemos agreement was for 0.75; that is, the left has 51% of the votes in this country and 5% of the budgets. And don't tell me that they influence globality, that we've been in the legislature for several years and we know that they are absolutely taifas kingdoms, taifas kingdoms, hermetically sealed departments, in which you manage your own and the PNV manages your own as well. What is said of Lo malo de traer discourse, and not to be heard, is in this atril, that it is not answerable to what is afterwards said. Or the answer is that which is not said, and that which is said is not answered. No one has yet answered me a key to the question: Why is the law violated? Why is the law of the use of administration violated? You tell me it won't be necessary. Is that a new legality? I mean, your opinion or P.N.V. won't be necessary. That's what the law says. What were you thinking about when you tested that law? Doing what? Now you're telling me it won't be necessary. I don't care, I don't care! The law says, and the law was tested with the voices of the EH Collectors, because the person who pressed EH gathered was not to stay in the nice words, and to place the funds on the table. And that's what you managed to vote for us. And now you don't want to do it, and you can't do it! You can't do it, you can't do it! "Pasa forral"! And he didn't say a word about it. Aldaketa klimatikoaren garrantziaz, datu bat: German 54,000 milioi euro inbertituko dute, berriak..., because it is a serious country, because the right can not come to invent things to a tribune because there is media, because there is critical opinion, because people cannot be fooled. Fifty-four billion new euros in Germany, and applying that proportionally, comparing our GDP, we would be talking about 300 million, and the German proposal has been criticized by the opposition, for insufficient, by the Greens, for insufficient and is a proposal of the German right and would amount to an increase of 300 million new and dedicated exclusively to the energy transition. That is the disproportion, that is the disproportion between empty words and the will to fulfill things. And they tell us, Mrs Tapia goes to Madrid and says that the 2030 Strategy is aligned, is aligned with the European strategy, and the European Union's Winter Programme tells us that we have to consume 32% renewables and here we raise 21%, 14 produced and 7 imported. That's not being aligned, that's being alienated, that is, being something else, but it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, everything works for propaganda, everything works for propaganda. You caricaturize the banners. I here have given some data that I don't think are pamphletaries, banners. They may more or less like us investing less of our gross domestic product in education than the European average, than the European recommendations, than we did seven years ago. I don't know if that would fit me on a banner. That we invest less in health, that there are problems, that there is precariousness in the labour market, that wages go down, that other communities go ahead. I don't know if all that would fit on a banner. I am going to make an apologia of the banner, because politics is not reduced to the banner, to the street, to the mobilization. That's not what it's all about. Politics is more than that. But that is also the case, nor is politics exclusively what is done on these four walls. Because if it wasn't for a banner, we wouldn't have public health, women wouldn't have the right to vote, there'd be apartheid. If it wasn't for the mobilization of people and the struggle of people, we wouldn't have the rights we have. So yeah, we're proud to be on the banner. But we are also here, in the proposal, and I have devoted a substantial part of the intervention to putting these proposals on the table. "Y no Voy a rebair susios sobre las enimendas, porque today is not the day to discuss the rights of the EH Collectors." It's not. There will be a day to discuss the rights. But instead of defending your budget, or at least in your case, what you've been trying to recruit and attack EH. And I'll give you a hint. You said: Why didn't you bring up last year's proposals if you stayed so close? The chief physician said to us today and the other day: "How impossible it is for us to get a deal with EH when we get the same proposals as last year." So what were we supposed to do, bring up last year's proposals or not? Well, I'll tell you the truth, they're very similar to what we've been saying to the chief physician, and last year's proposition, because he has the whole political logic for us. Last year it couldn't be a secondary issue. At heart and in the heart, we have brought the same proposals. Income guarantee income. Income guarantee income has been lowered, and I have set an example. I don't get what I've said, I get what you'd like me to say, what you make up I've said, or things that have been said, or the ELA document, like I'm from ELA. If you are approved of a 5% increase and are not applied, you are being cut off. And if, moreover, the reference has been removed, and that is the biggest cut, beyond 7%, because we are talking about an income that guarantees income. And poverty is measured in terms of the well-being and income of society, the whole, the average, the median, and the different calculations are made. Poverty is a relative concept. Therefore, if we want to ensure that this country's citizens are allowed to be out of poverty, that income has to be referred to something. And as the SMI – which was what was referred to, and you via Budgets Law charge it, they also apply the "foral step" to the Income Guarantee Law 2008 – as the minimum wage has risen, the gap And I don't know if he was prepared for the fact that I've devoted myself to making the amendment to Podemos. No, no, look, the amendment to the most important whole that will be voted on today is not that of the People's Party, nor that of Euskal Herria Bildu, is the amendment to the whole that Podemos presents to his own political trajectory. And that may be right or it may be wrong. But today, of course, is a turning point. It is a turning point, which I raised from political sadness. And no, elections have been talked about, because – I don't know if I haven't heard anything – when are the elections? I don't know, it looks like we're doing everything in electoral code. It is often said that "the thief who is all of his condition thinks"; but, from my point of view, we are in a sort of electoral Easter Island. They know that Easter Island is the furthest territory from any continental mass. Well, I can't think of a moment in the last few months or years when we're further away from an election call. We don't do this for the election. I haven't brought any graphs here, as I usually do on other occasions. If I brought a graph of the concern caused by the electoral competition with Podemos, in terms of competition, to take away votes from us, that graph would be at its historical minimum point. We are not worried that, with this movement, we can take away our electoral space. On the contrary, on the contrary, we believe that a field opens up to us, that of the left and the opposition, practically exclusively. What worries us is that the ideological positions and the capacity of the left-wing struggle in this country are weakened. Because to give the tithe of the stamp you need someone to come with a little ticket or newspaper clippings and say, "Look, these are green, purple and red tickets," but you also need a hook that gives you credibility, someone who says, "It's true what this gentleman says, you have to buy those tickets, which are tickets and not stamps." And that's the sad role you played today. We think we're involved in the inertia. And yes, we're better off in some things than in the Spanish state. We're going back sometimes. It's not a banner there, I've given the data, and the discussion around it is side-by-side. But we still work on inertia, inertia. And all inertia are finally exhausted. You see, in Franco's time, before PNV was in the government, there were the first two countries of Biscay and Gipuia in the state level per capita. And you're managing a society that we're building among all of you. And instead of transmitting your management, it's getting a bit too tight for slowing down right now. And I say, there remains also a ring of high speed, if the pedal ceases to strike. Watch out for now, for now, we live on incomes, but the rents end too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u21	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing on the answer shift, Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u22	Yes, let's see, thank you, President. The changes proposed by Euskal Herria Bildu have been proposed, in its eight paragraphs, which you tabled in the amendment as a whole, have been proposals which have been discussed in this House and concluded with agreements. They like it better or they like it less. But you continue with your inertia to present the same issues, whether agreed or not. You are interested in democracy for what you are interested in, not in all its terms. Euskal Herria Bildu has a real problem with the subject of pacts: it always raises everything or nothing. And it happened in the budget negotiation for the year 19; you renounced to increase to 40,000 pensioners income guarantee income, renounced 13 shares in employment policies and agreed a plan of financially sustainable investments in the field of health, education, environment and housing. 50 million euros were those financially sustainable investments, and they gave up 142.6 million euros and gave us a budget extension. And it wasn't, in those agreements it wasn't, at least in the negotiation, it never referred to the SMI. You did make a "go through" at that time for the budget extension, for the 2019 budgets, which ended up in budget extension. You know that with an amount of EUR 202 million in partial amendments for 2020 budgets you have not put forward any budgetary alternative, no economic model alternative, no political model alternative, no social model alternative, neither for Euskadi now, nor for Euskadi in the previous three years. You talk about the socialists migrating. Well, you hibernate. Of course, years and years are passing on the important landmarks of Euskadi in which Euskal Herria Bildu and his different denominations have been hibernated year after year. You have never participated in any of the important issues of this country, of 40 years of self-government. They have never participated in what we can consider important for the advancement of Basque society. Last year, with the subject of budgetary negotiation for 2019, we waited until the last minute before the Finance Committee could be convened to discuss the partial amendments. You didn't leave the cave, you didn't leave the cave for budget negotiation. They said no. Portazo and the story's over. That's your hibernation. So make him look at it, too. You say we have little influence, that the left has little influence. Of course, it's that we start from different conceptions, isn't it?, from how a budget is made and how one influences a budget and what it uses its seats for when it gets the votes necessary to occupy these seats. Because at least the Basque Socialists said it from the beginning: we have signed a government pact and our seats will be useful tools to solve and solve the problems of Basque citizenship. You make the approaches and then, in the end, as "I go, I don't care, I don't vote, I pass from this democracy...". Look, there you are! We don't make any progress, we have to be the others who are pulling out of the car. And that's not the same as the left, or it shouldn't be the same, at least, the left. In his concept he will be, but, of course, in that of the Basque Socialists for nothing. We, at least the Basque Socialists, have the principles of equality, solidarity and social justice, and if we are to get out of the car, we are going to do so. But we do not cheat, we do not come blaming the other actions that we are not able to carry out ourselves. We had, many years ago, responsibilities to influence the policies of this country. 40 years ago the Socialists started making contributions to this country. Public policy issues to maintain and strengthen public services. We wanted those public policies to be expanded and consolidated. We're still in that job. But you were never expected, you never arrived, you have never reached those budgets, you have never agreed to them. You have never wet yourselves, you go of chaste and pure, of guardians of the essences. We are the others who have to be angry to get this country out of the way. And you have the little shame of coming to tell others that we migrate. That we're migrating? Hey, get out of the cave at once, take over your responsibilities for this country, and then the left may have something to say and something to do with you. Meanwhile, as long as they are speeches, with the Basque Socialists, Euskal Herria Bildu does not count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u24	Thank you. Casanova, galdetzen duzu that why having 51% of this House that calls itself leftists – well, I have understood it this way – why don't we come to more agreements, to a future government agreement, something like that, don't we? And it has made self-criticism; for, well, precisely, it will not have been you who have paid that land best. I'm not going in there. But the truth is that once I heard Alfonso Alonso on the 24 Hours channel a reflection that I liked. He said, "You don't have to let your political opponent caricaturize you." And your problem is that PNV is very difficult to caricaturize, because we don't call ourselves right-wing or do right-wing politics. We have social sensitivity and we are a humanist party. The one who was president of this House, Juanjo Pujana, once – I don't know who asked him, he wasn't a militant, he was... but, well, we were in the batzoki As for the drama that the country has, it is that the left abertzale is facilitator in Madrid and boycotter in Vitoria. There they are, in principle, of entry, abstention, and here they are, of entry, the no. "Etxean otso eta kalean use." Suspiring that Sánchez would receive Otegi in the Moncloa, that they would be homologated as a systemic party in Madrid. Yeah, yeah, they sigh for that... Enthusiastic that Republican Left let them appear in the second row of the photo. Always in the shadow, because neither should they agree, since they have not entered the group. Always waiting for the PNV to position itself to mark the differences. But society does not expect anyone and we will have budgets agreed with Elkarrekin Podemos, which will be favorable for the country. This year you didn't want a deal, so that's clear. You've said it naturally, but, hombre, the original proposition of the year that has passed, without changing a coma, and to decide from there that no negotiations will be given, is that right? " traer el tarro de las escias a una mesa de negociación presupusaria y quedarese, como siempre, de Guardes de las escias." The PNV will continue here with a humanist policy. And perhaps I will end as I have finished all the interventions, inviting them to mature, to better manage their internal contradictions and to make a serious political exercise of maturity – no longer possible – next year.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u25	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. When the discussion's over, he votes for the bill that gets back to him or not. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the contrary, 37; the abstaining, the 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u26	So the bill of law does not return to the government. Next, we'll go to the vote. Together, the Podemos team has a vote description. First minute. Yeah? Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u27	In 2011 the United Left refounded in Euskadi as Ezker Anitza, under the objective, we said, of fighting to transform the country in the service of the working social majority. We believe that we cannot make progress on these objectives by supporting budgets such as those that we have rejected in previous years, which we believe are at the service of the economic elites. A model we don't share; you know it perfectly well. And that includes a tax model that punishes workers for the benefit of capital income. And we have often denounced the hypocrisy that for us the government assumes to tell people that taxation and budgets cannot be negotiated, when it did with the People's Party. That is why, the two parliamentarians, Ezker Anitza/United Left, have voted for the return of these budgets, because we believe that the policies of the Government have not changed and neither have we changed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u28	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Next, Mr. Bollain has the word for a vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u29	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, we're discussing the full corrections of the law of budget today. And we have been able to listen to the political proposals of the teams introduced, in which some lie or other a good deal of manipulation and many self-explanations have been seen. I believe that we all have our budgets together, and that they are far from ours. But, from the present situation, there were two possibilities of this meeting: On the one hand, to make a speech which draws a diagnosis and a horizon, without giving any proposition or solution to the questions here explained; and on the other hand to the mills and wants from Euskaca, from 2020 to 2020, in the 2018 of a new potential extension of funds agreed with the popular party, to give better answers. And I have to say that listening to the economic and political proposal that is distilled in Mr Damborenea's amendment and speech, we reaffirm that we are trying, by all means, to prevent the extension of budgets that bear the stamp of the People's Party. That is why, and because we sincerely believe that the amendments tabled by Elkarrekin We can, on the one hand, respond to the urgency and needs of many people today and, on the other hand, put some policies on the right track, to resolve some of the issues that have been pointed out by previous speakers. Education, with greater investment in public schools to ensure that it is the instrument that ensures equal opportunities. They put the care in the center, with specific measures and the lowering of the rates of the haurreskolak And that's why Elkarrekin We can facilitate the processing of these budgets, to move forward and so that Euskadi starts to look more like the Euskadi we dream about and fight for. Our transformative will, our alternative country project, our vision of how to make the ecological transition or our feminist policies are not going to be left alone in a beautiful and passionate speech in Parliament, but will be reflected in the policies and plans to be carried out in 2020. And at this point, I would like to thank Councilman Azpiazu and his team for the work and willingness to move innovative issues and novel issues that Elkarrekin Podemos has put on the table. It has been a complex negotiation, with many hours of inverted work, which has ended in a good agreement, for Euskadi to advance in times of uncertainty and profound changes. There is no doubt that we are facing a key moment, when today's decisions outline the Euskadi of the future. And at this crossroads everyone decides how it is most useful to the citizenry. And it will be the citizens themselves who value each other's political position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-12-16.u30	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was twelve o'clock in the morning, and fifty-two.
