ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u0	Good morning, everyone. We're going to start the whole meeting... the silence! First point in theme list: "Motius, Eukene Arana Varas, introduced together by the legislative members of the Podemos, the care-work, the equalist society, and the instruments of life being placed in the centre. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Arana, representing the Podemos team, has the word to present and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u1	Yes, good morning, everyone. Ma'am, members of the legislature, chief officers. Elkarrekin Podemos has tabled this motion on care, equality and putting life at the centre, and we have reached a comprehensive agreement. We are working to respond to many of the challenges and needs we have as a society, and on this occasion, and once again since we came to this Parliament, we are putting at the heart of the debate care, equality and machist violence. Firstly, and first of all, I would like to point out that four plural women, from four parliamentary groups, have been the protagonists of this agreement. We have known and been able to put forward the shared views and interests of all women on our differences. We are very pleased and we appreciate the work and dedication to make this point come forward. It is really positive when we talk, when we find the points in common and come to agreements between us to carry out policies that can solve the problems of all women in Euskadi. Says the great philosopher Celia Amorós: "When you want democracy, you want feminism." And since we are celebrating this agreement, I will start with what I normally do at the end; I will start by presenting the agreement we have reached to the citizenry. With this agreement we widen the way for institutions to put care, decent life for people and the sustainability of life at the heart of their organization, because we really believe that this is the only possible way towards a more just, more equal and more sustainable society. This requires short, medium and long-range measures, which seek to respond to immediate needs, and also seek deeper and deeper changes. All that is what we bring with this agreement. First, we ask the Basque Government and all Basque institutions to carry out campaigns aimed at recognizing the social value of care, because, in order to move towards an equality-based society, it is essential to make care tasks visible; it is necessary that, as a society, we reflect both on care and on the roles or functions assigned to women and men among citizens...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u3	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Secondly, this Parliament is committed to producing a report that seeks ways of achieving development in which the sustainability of life is central. We live in a social organization that gives priority to interests that unfortunately forget care, social reproduction, decent lives and sustainability. It is time to seek ways for a better Euskadi for all and for all. To prepare the study, we commit ourselves to launch a deep, generous, public, open and plural debate, and above all to incorporate the participation of women's organizations and the feminist movement as a whole. Their voices are indispensable. We recently had in this Parliament the appearance of the feminist movement. We hope that the Government will be able to articulate this space of generous, public, open and plural debate and make them genuine participants. Thirdly, we urge the Basque Government to carry out an analysis of the care model. That report should reflect the analysis of the current situation, because we all know that we are in the middle of a care crisis. The report will have to make an assessment of the impact of current policies and what needs to be improved. All this, accompanied by deadlines and commitments of resources, so that citizens can monitor their compliance. For Elkarrekin Podemos, this is just one more step, because, with this report in hand, we will continue to work to ensure that the attention is universal, public, integrated and free. Fourthly, the Basque Government will have to implement, throughout this legislature, a strategy to support caregivers, the vast majority of whom, of course, and as we all know, are women. And with the current model, they still carry that great responsibility behind their backs for the well-being of everyone. We always celebrate the agreements, but, on this occasion, we are especially pleased, because it has been cooked on a slow fire, despite the fact that we had very limited time. We have worked until the last moment, and, moreover, we have done so among very diverse and plural women. There's another recognition for all of us. And especially because Elkarrekin Podemos, since he arrived in this Parliament, always works with the aim of developing and approving feminist public policies that are built hand-in-hand, on the basis of active listening and real dialogue with the feminist movement. And in this agreement there is much of that, and it reflects some of the challenges that are being posed from the feminist agenda. Challenges to give real solutions to citizenship, and to make the rights of all women possible. Today's agreement is a demonstration of how to make policy from dialogue and achieving plural, consensus agreements, out of focus and headlines that then remain in that, headlines. We hope that this agreement will not remain in the drawer of oblivion and that it will be fully implemented. I know that it is the intention of all the women we have intervened, and I hope and hope that it will also be so for those who acquire the commitment to put it into operation. Tomorrow is a very important day for all women, lesbians and trans. Tomorrow, called by the feminist movement, we will fill the streets with struggle, claim and dance, because, as Emma Goldman said, "if we can't dance, it's not our revolution." Because we are many, diverse, plural, and we have a common goal: to end the systematic violation of human rights, to end the hate speech of Machists and LGBTIphobics, and to end the ones they want to rule over our bodies. Tomorrow, once again, we will make history for all those who have preceded us, for all those who are no longer; but let us be clear one thing: the feminist movement, the women's struggle is the only movement that has never shed a drop of blood, and we will continue without doing so and fighting for our rights. Tomorrow we'll go out on the street for ourselves and all our companions. We will strike from Elkarrekin We can, not because they give us the freedom to do it, but because we women exercise our right to do it. For they were, we are; for we are, they will be. The future is feminist, the Podemos team has no doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Arana. Passing to the teams who are running the corrections, the Euskal popular, Mrs Garrido, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, all good days. We are now speaking of the condition of dependence, and of anger, and especially of those who are in this condition. It is true that the subject is very important, and that it is necessary for the public to make a precise decision, to give a proper regard to this subject. Today we talk about care, care for dependent people. This issue is directly related to the issue of conciliation, bearing in mind that the field of care is a particularly feminized sector. When we talk about care for dependent people, we talk about care for the elderly, the sick, people with chronic diseases, people with some kind of disability. We must therefore stress that care, care for dependent persons, is a major concern for the family, and therefore must be on the agenda as a priority issue for the different public institutions. Because, if there's someone to take care of, someone has to take care of it or take care of it, and that someone, usually, mostly, has a woman's face. That is why I was saying at the beginning of this intervention that it is a clearly feminized sector. On the other hand, I wanted to highlight the family impact of care, and it is undeniable, because decisions must be made that clearly affect and have consequences for the family nucleus. When one has to take care of someone, one has to make the first decision: who is the caregiver, how such care is to be shaped, whether it is to be carried out directly by the family member or whether care is to be drawn to dependence outside the family environment. But in both cases, too this attention, as noted above, mostly falls on women. When we talk about care, we also have to bear in mind – and, above all, in a particularly ageing autonomous community – that this issue is going to get more and more, and therefore, as I said earlier, it is an issue that must inexcusably seek priority attention from public administrations, and in this case from the Basque Government. I will give some data that support this statement, how between 2005-2015 the population over 80 grew by 52.1%. The population over 65 in Euskadi is 21.4%; in Europe 18.5% and in the rest of Spain 18.9%. Therefore, this phenomenon, the phenomenon of population ageing, affects all Western countries and all the autonomous communities of our country. But this certainly manifests itself in a more pronounced way in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Even when we talk about care, we talk about hard work, low-recognition, low-paid work and, of course, work that has an unpayable social value. As I said earlier, the role of women is essential, and here it must be linked to conciliation, because care, as I said earlier, would not be understood without that role of women. That is why it is essential for the People's Party, when we talk about care, to talk about a recognition of the social value of care, of its visibility and of concrete measures to be taken and priority areas of intervention that have to do with conciliation. And, in that sense, and according to the competences assigned by the Basque Government, the other day we were told by the adviser that conciliation is a priority area of action for her; for the Government of the People, the area of conciliation is a priority area of attention. I, in this matter, Mrs Lehendakari and Mrs Lehendakari, who is now present at the plenary session, must once again give you an earshake, because, here you have devoted yourselves to making announcements that are not then translated into concrete realities, nor into concrete measures that benefit the Basque families in the area of conciliation. Look, last year you announced the famous two-week leave coverage for the non-pregnant parent, with 100% of the contribution base. You, counselor, and to questions from this group in the presentation of your department's budgets, told us that, at best, the corresponding decree would be adopted in the autumn of 2019. But, what's more, you also told us that that help, which in principle we understood was going to be from the first child, was no longer going to be circumscribed to the first child, but was going to be perceived from the second child. Recently, the People's Party presented an initiative in relation to family policies, in which the policies relating to conciliation expressly had an important section, and we wanted and asked the Basque Government to adopt the corresponding decree to implement this concrete measure of the surplus, of the coverage of this economic benefit for surpluses, from the first child – which was as in the beginning told us that it was going to be the Basque Government – and with retroactive effect. Well, counselor, I have the announcement. You are delaying decisions; you announce a decision on 21 March and, unfortunately today, that measure is not a reality for Basque families. And, therefore, I, today, once again, here, apart from the fact that a certain agreement can be signed in a certain sense, I would like once again to make it clear that the family area for this government is not a priority action, and we refer to the facts, Madam Counsellor. I have no reason to remind you of another measure which also has an impact on conciliation, such as aid for the second child, increasing its annuality, which has taken time since the announcements made by the Basque Government at the beginning of this parliamentary term. It's a help that came in last summer. I have no reason to remind you, Madam Counsellor, and Mr Lehendakari, when Mr Lehendakari told us in the general policy plenary in 2015 that the Fourth Family Plan and the Family Strategy would be coming. And the family plan, the Fourth Family Plan, was approved this summer. It is therefore necessary that, apart from specific commitments in a specific agreement, this Government, as far as your responsibility in the Department of Employment and Social Affairs is concerned, be placed once and for all, because we already have far more than half of the legislature. We are also talking about conciliation aid, and in this respect there is a need for a review of such conciliation aid. We are also talking – and this is also a proposal put forward by the People's Party in the motion that was recently debated in this Parliament – about encouraging aid to businesses to implement equality and reconciliation plans. We're talking about the Concilia web. It is that we had this debate in the full monograph that we had on family policies last year; how we have a page that is at service or that should be at the service of companies, but that does not work effectively, counselor, and here we also called for concrete action. We're talking about the pay gap. You, the other day, announced the launch of a specific table within the Social Dialogue Bureau. But it is also late on this issue, Madam Counsellor, when warnings and alarms are put on the table in specific reports from trade unions and Confebask quite a long time ago. We know, we all know that the lowest paid jobs affect women, and one of the sectors where women are mostly employed and where they have the lowest wages is that of dependency, because the dependency sector, compared to other sectors, is the worst paid. We're talking about education, counselor. One absolutely essential thing when we talk about education is to link it to co-responsibility. Of course, the other day the counselor also told us about the haurreskola haurreskola haurreskola haurreskola That is why I want to tell you that the reality of this Government in relation to family policies leaves much to be desired. With regard to the amendment tabled by the People's Party, we wanted to go straight to the point when we were presenting an amendment on this issue, and we therefore propose that this Government should go to the point and carry out an analysis of the current model of care; that this specific report should recognize the current situation, the assessment of the impact of current policies – and, in particular, those of conciliation – and also measures needed to be implemented in the future, with a timetable for action and also with the planned budgetary allocation. I have to say that this paragraph, not as regards the deadline, but as regards the specific content of this report, has been reflected in the agreement signed, and other issues that we also consider relevant. Not so, we do not understand, and I do not know whether in the different shifts the proposer of this question could explain it to us, but we do not quite understand the second paragraph, when reference is made to drawing up a report on how to promote the sustainability of life. It is a somewhat ambiguous issue, Mrs Arana, and we hope that you will be able to tell us about it during your second round. However, as regards the bulk of the points, in any case, as are the points of the People's Party and, in particular, the key point, we will support the initiative practically in its entirety. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u6	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u7	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Economy word etymologically ENSnomy Oikosnomy But the feminist economy has been trying for years to turn this last comprehension into its initial idea, or at least to examine its influence on the organization of the public, because it is clear that the market has an influence on it, but who and in what condition does it maintain all this system? But what does it suppose to be in the centre watch? We are not accustomed to work thus in public politics, in institutions, and this demands a profound reflection. The veins must be understood from a wide view, and must not be limited to dependence. Every man needs attention at every moment of his life. They ought to answer the wants of those who are provided and received, to be worthy of such care, and not of the want of other men's care, but of those of quality, of freedom, and of fill. It is, however, a fundamental element of public education to acquire worthy or wanting care. The patriarchal populace prefers the attentions which are made between the sentiments of love, that is to say, within the family and those of the women. The care of these women is, I think, as if they were the foundation of our nature. This change of paradigma requires profound reflection, because we do not know how to put life in the centre, because we do not know how to act, because we do not know how to make politics the most reasonable. Markets, finances, snippets and losses, with which we can easily get along. But with the daily works that life sustains, with the necessary time, with the emotional riches or poverty of people, we do not know how to act. It's serious about us. He's coming to see me tomorrow's strike. Grebe has shown that when we women plan, the world stops, or at least is uncomfortable. Who's going to do these surveillance jobs? Who'll take care of their children? Who is dependent on people? Who's cooking lunch? Who's going to fill the fridge? Who's gonna put on the washing machine? How do you reconcile all that with your job? Welcome to the daily life of women who will strike. For in the heads of the economy and institutions there is no one in the heads of women. Governor? Ask the woman who wakes up at six o'clock in the morning and already has the whole plan of the day. He knows just as soon as he wakes up what's in the house fridge, what he's going to do with breakfast, lunch, snack and dinner, what time he needs to get his washing machine ready...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u9	Thank you. And on his way to work he bought bread and all, and when he got out he had to buy it at his work store, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. That's what we're gonna do. And that's how people get excited. Let us therefore avail ourselves of the impatience, the irritation, the fear, the reversal. Thus, for us, the most important point of the proposed proposition was that of conversation, because we must create space with feminist movements, experts, and activities, with those who are working on it. How do we do that? The feminist movement of the Basque Country has worked hard to prepare a dose for the last year in which several proposals and axes have been brought to our desktop, and on Monday, here on this legislature, present themselves to us... [[Berber]] You'll excuse me, but it's impossible to continue. It's a terrible noise, and I don't concentrate. I'm sorry, but I'd like to ask, if you're going to talk, and I understand what you're talking about outside, because I can't. Thank you. This week, New And for us, just as we are studying this steadiness of the pretty ones, it is essential that we should arrive at this conversation, I repeat, if we wish to penetrate deeper into the democratization, because we must devote space to it. And I believe that in this agreement which we made today, this idea, which is actually planned on that second point, brings it on to the table. The institutions which we work will place upon the table the politics, and the proclamations, and how they can be united; for the proclamations may be, that the practice of public politics may be another, and in the middle, let us find a point. And I think that this is the most important point at the moment, because it's time to change the direction and create space for discussion and deliberation, so we'll stop at 8. We're going out on the streets to say no to people who want us in this system, that we're ready to be in the foreground, that we make politics for that and that we're working on it. And, to conclude, I should like to conclude with a little story mentioned in the Book of the same author, which, because I think it represents very well what we are going to do to-morrow, says the Chief deputation of Chaintan las mujes: "They say that powerful men, one by one, told women that the jobs they were doing were more important and necessary than those they were doing, and that they were driven to hide inside the houses. They say that they sat in a circle and began to speak; they decided to make visible that without the jobs that women did (care, feed, calm) neither they nor they could be alive. 'Care can't just be our job,' they told them, and many of them understood." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u11	Thank you, President, and good morning. I begin by concluding this agreement, an agreement that we have signed four parliamentary groups, but I understand that it unites us even to those who have decided not to sign it because they do not share one of the points. By focusing on the initiative, the initiative proposed to us today Elkarrekin Podemos has the care as main point. The challenge is to meet the needs of those who, because they are in a situation of special vulnerability, require support to develop the essential activities of daily life, to achieve greater personal autonomy and to be able to fully exercise their citizenship rights. We must recognize that care in today's society is feminized and mostly precarious, a further demonstration of the need to continue working for equality. Indeed, one of the measures to be implemented as far as possible is that the public should provide coverage so that there is no privatization, feminization or precariousness of care. This is the work that the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero began to do, in one of the areas that required political action and commitment, and that subsequent governments were responsible for not putting in place. Hence, in 2006, the Act on the Promotion of Self-Government and Care for Persons in a Unit Situation was adopted. It was a new right of citizenship, a right of equal access to essential elements for the autonomous life of many people, an inseparable right of dignity. Tomorrow, March 8, a date to which we have referred almost all in the demands of the feminist strike, the care will take place. The content of the manifesto of the feminist movement makes special reference to the fact that the economic system would collapse without the daily work of women around care; it is true, and I share it. We share that it is we who care constantly for our families, our couples, our co-workers, our friends, and without all these care tasks few could continue as they are. We demand the need to put such care in the centre, because, if not, nothing would work the same. The importance is vital for the maintenance of life as we have it and above all as they have it today, but we also want such care to be a shared and redistributed social responsibility. The Socialists understand that it was necessary to regulate the basic conditions guaranteeing equality in the exercise of the subjective right of citizenship to the promotion of personal autonomy and care for persons in a situation of dependence, in the terms laid down in the laws, by creating a system for autonomy and care for dependence with the cooperation and participation, of course, of all public administrations, and by guaranteeing by the General Administration of the State a common minimum content of rights for all citizens in any part of the territory, as reflected in the justification of the law itself. Putting care at the centre is an issue that affects and will affect future generations, but this would require changes in the educational and training model, changes in the work system, adopting schedules to enable reconciliation of personal life, whether or not familiar, and co-responsibility with men in the care system. All of this must be accompanied by a legislative battery and budget lines in order to be able to finance it and to allow the necessary changes to be skipped from speeches in an effective way. Laws and rules far from the labor reform that the People's Party launched and that eliminated all the bonuses in favor of conciliation, although then here we have to listen to some things. We are in this Parliament in a pending debate, that of care, but it is that the situation at national level is in a conservative involution that, far from implementing rights and consolidating actions, threatens to destroy what has been achieved to this day. Behind all this is the feminist struggle throughout history. Care is part of the realities in which women suffer inequality. But today, in 2019, we are facing political parties that sign agreements that want to end laws that protect abused women, that sign agreements that want to make black lists with people that protect abused women. With what it has cost to call by name the abusers and murderers of women, there are those who want to call them people who don't treat women well. They say that feminism is the movement that makes the war against men, and this today, in 2019, with everything we have worked on. There is an open war with the rights acquired so far, there is an army of parties and politicians who support this war, and the question is whether we all stand together without party interests to overcome this situation. Because there are parties that are at war, denying a diversity that no longer has to turn back; they speak of a segregation calculated to sustain a religious education that still discriminates against women; they deny that violence against women has an educational basis; to educate boys and girls equally they call it indoctrination; they recognize only a family idea; they deny the right to abortion; they demonize feminists and, to do so, they use professional women to legitimize this attack. Those who are at war have managed to make a part of the population unspeakable shelter misogynistic feelings that a few years ago would not have been expressed with such joy. This is the war that Elvira Lindo denounced in El País This initiative proposed by Mrs Arana placed care as the main theme, but behind them there is a struggle for equality, the consolidation of rights, the need to continue what others started. I end up just as I started, celebrating the agreement, but it is more than clear that today we still have too much to achieve. And now the question is whether we want to do it all together, overcoming party speeches, or it will end up going back to where some started. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u12	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. The caremaking, the more equal society, and the determination of life in the centre, is to discuss the tools, and to present ourselves together with Mrs. Eukene Arana of Podemos. It is about the importance of the central establishment of care, and it is not a coincidence to-morrow, on the 8th of March, to proclaim the same thing as the Basque Feminist movement. Then, at the third point, she also speaks of the importance of Madame Kortja's drawing-room. Equality, the concern for real and effective equality between men and women is more, much more than bringing initiatives every Thursday to plenary; today on the equality of young people, tomorrow on the elderly, and the past on people with functional diversity. Or more than advocating that tomorrow you participate in the demonstrations on 8 March, as you yourself, Mrs Arana, will share. In our view, the fight for equality requires consensus, agreement and unity of will to move forward, both from civil society and from political representatives, without distinction. You yourself recognized it in a forum on women in politics, organized by Professional Women's Network, last Tuesday. It is necessary to row all together in the same direction, apart from political debates interested in seeking a handful of votes. Equality needs the whole of society, requires the joint work of men alongside women, public institutions and private entities. In the specific issue we are dealing with, care and its realization by women, the involvement of men is also necessary. They should not fall solely on women. We share with the proposer the need to co-educate, socialize, transmit values, skills for coexistence. Mrs Red and also Mrs Etxebarrieta mentioned them, reiterating that it is the task of everyone. We know that, today, care continues to fall mostly to women, who are unpaid jobs in a vast majority of cases that perpetuate the wage gap and inequalities between men and women. It is an issue that concerns and concerns the Basque Government. It's not new. It is set out as an objective and axis in the VII Plan for Equality of Women and Men, which proposes to place life at the centre, as well as its original initiative. The plan deepens the visibility and value of care, as well as the ways to support co-responsibility in its provision. It also aims to socially recognize care as an indispensable condition for the sustainability of life – says the plan itself, Mrs. Garrido –; to make visible and value the work of unpaid care, and to support a new social organization of care that redistributes its provision. Counselor Artolazabal announced the job accreditation of care professionals by the end of 2022. Similarly, last Tuesday, Councillor Azpiazu announced the approval of an instruction to end the wage gap. Steps, small if you want, but steps led by the government of the lehendakari Urkullu in favor of equality, with feasible and concrete measures. As you can see, I'm sure it's fun trying to push that change around. And, therefore, she also announced that Counsellor Artolazabal is working on the design and implementation of a strategy to support caregivers, because we are convinced and convinced of the vital role that caregivers contribute to society in general, and because we are aware of the important work they do. The Basque Government and the groups that support it, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, are committed to the recognition, enhancement and awareness-raising of care tasks, which, as we all know well, are primarily women's. It is necessary to shut up in society, from the bottom up and from the top down, from the tenderest childhood. As I have said, because we all need everyone to have enough surveillance reconnaissance. And sensibility is also very important. It's not one day's work, we won't get it if we don't push us all together. Work and arrangement are absolutely necessary. The propos say that we must look at the long term and take measures, and we agree. We have to look at the length of time, at the same time, for sensitations, paradigmma changes, to change the roles that are so involved in society. You step forward, breathe, stop if you need to, you need to think and get the strength to move forward. If the goal is clear here, I think that all the groups have a clear goal, so that we can go forward together. Even if it is slower than we would sometimes like, always forward, in the same direction, in the course of equality. It is highly praiseworthy that the vast agreement obtained, and I believe that it combines the proposed corrections, seeks sensibilization, the report, the strategy, the great diversion, and the care and care of the guard to put them in the centre. So, let's move forward, let's move forward, let's move forward, let's move forward, let's move forward, let's move forward, let's move forward, let's move forward, let's move forward, let's move forward, let's move forward, let's move forward, let's move Let's do it together, the Karlanean. I insist, it is important to raise awareness, to raise awareness and to continue taking steps. And since I don't intend to use my second shift, I just want to say a couple of things to Mrs Garrido. I think it's good that you talk about the family, about conciliation, which, well, is a mantra that we've been used to lately. It is obviously related to care, but today we are talking about care, and everything you have been saying seemed more like a question to the Government than a debate between the different groups in this parliamentary arc. I don't think today was the day of the interpellation. I believe that, in favour of and in agreement that care and caregiving people must be placed at the centre, that we must raise awareness, that we must make them the centre of policy, so I want to keep to the positive of the broad agreement that you have also said you are going to support, I do not know if in all respects, but in the vast majority of them. And I think today was a nice day to focus on care as such, on caregivers, and to leave the debates that we have had on many occasions, as you yourself have said, aside. And, in addition, it has been listing a lot of things that the Government has made late, that it has made late, that it has made late, but it has made them. I mean, you've recognized the things you've been doing yourself. Let's stay positive, keep working for care to be axis and caregivers receive the necessary treatment and recognition. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the answering shift, Arana shouldn't say a word. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u15	Thank you, Madam President. For stressing some issue that I referred to in my first speech in a more general way because of lack of time. It is precisely because, Mrs Arregi, almost all my speech has focused on pointing out the importance of care. She spoke about the essentials of care; the need for recognition of the social value of care; the impact of care on a family when a dependent person has to be cared for: the decisions to be made, who takes care of the person who needs to be cared for, if taken care of by a person in the family environment and the consequences that it entails, which ultimately have a direct impact on work decisions; or when a decision is also made to take care of the dependency from the family environment, which also has a family impact because of the cost of caring for a person outside the family environment. I have spoken of the fact that care primarily falls on women, and therefore I have referred to the need to establish concrete policies of conciliation, because the issue of conciliation is absolutely linked to the issue of care, when care is mostly women's. So don't tell me I haven't talked about care. Man, this was the subject of the initiative, but I think we should also highlight the actions, because we are talking about the Basque Government and we are in the Basque Parliament. I believe it is my job as a representative of the People's Party and opposition force to show that the actions of the Government on these issues are not what Basque citizens expect. And the delays, not only delays, are that some actions have not yet been launched despite being announced long ago and, by the way, in a bowl and dish and, moreover, with a personal commitment of the lehendakari himself to say that the lehendakari represents a government that cares about citizens and people. I have already made four inquiries during this parliamentary term. They will therefore acknowledge my commitment, but my commitment not out of pleasure, but because I see that the Government still does not do great things in this area. For the People's Party, of course, it is a matter of the utmost priority, and you also know that, because we have incorporated it into different initiatives, and in some of them we have reached agreements, agreements that are necessary to give impetus to this Government's action in this area. Of course, when we talk about non-compliance, I must also bring in here the actual non-compliances and the forecasts of the Third Family Plan; and if we talk about convergence with Europe, this government has been unable to meet those forecasts. Indeed, we too appreciate consensus, but we do not appreciate the partisan use of any subject and less of it, and that is why this Member of Parliament, as you know, I have made a special effort to achieve consensus, and I have also been one of the people who, after the talks, has put forward concrete texts. There is a specific point in the report on the sustainability of the value of life that I have not just understood, because I do not understand the content of that report, but in any case we will not oppose this initiative. And finally, I think consensus is important. That is why it is important to seek consensus through a state pact, as President Mariano Rajoy did; it is important to seek consensus on the issue of the wage gap, as announced the other day by the President of the People's Party and candidate for the presidency of the government in the upcoming elections, in all that has to do with the gender gap. By the way, Mrs Red, that labor reform that you so much criticize and that you so dislike, for you see, made it possible – although much more has to be done and that is why the People's Party announces concrete initiatives – that the wage gap during the government of Mariano Rajoy would fall five points. Or it is also necessary to take specific initiatives which benefit women who, for example, have been mothers and who, when they are granted a widow's pension, have a supplement. That has also been done by a People's Party Government. I could give more examples, but it is also not the aim of the initiative to bring all the achievements of each party to the fore, but I can tell you that the achievements of the People's Party in terms of conciliation, gender-based violence and the initiatives that have been launched are quite sufficient, I do not know if as many as those of the Socialist Party, but it seems to be that they have been quite more effective and that in the end they have been more beneficial to the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u16	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u17	Just a couple of things from the seat. We are not merely talking about the care of persons in dependence, Mrs. Garrido; we are all talking about the need we have at any moment, or at any moment of life, because the support of life means that we must all be preserved at any moment in life, because we have people to look after us, because we also have people around us. We are speaking of a change of point of view, and therefore not of dependence, but of the support of life. That's what I think we need to emphasize. And Miss Rojo would ask us a question whether we were willing to plan together in front of all those things she'd thrown there. Yes, I tell you from now on, I think that we women have much need to plan together, because some people want to remind us of obscure times, but I don't think they really know what they're going to do with, because we're many, because we're organized, because we know what we can leave together when we need it, and today I think there's an example of it. So, yeah, you tell us to plan with us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u19	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs. Garrido, I didn't mean to, I didn't mean to go out, but it makes it so easy. State Pact for Gender Violence; yes, in the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Why did they make the pact? Who asked for that pact to be made? United We can and the Socialist Party. They approve the pact: zero euros. Zero. The speech endures everything, but it must be financed. When does the State Pact for Gender Violence become effective? With whom? With a socialist government, that of Pedro Sánchez. It's just that, I don't know, they've taken this hobby of inventing reality; this is as true as the People's Party made the law of macho violence, which we were told recently in a media outlet. Man, Mrs. Garrido! Finally, the hemerotheques speak for themselves, and this is not a war of those who present more initiatives, if the Socialist Party or the People's Party, because in the end you will know them. Government of Rodriguez Zapatero – see if you knew where I was going to go that I even had the reply written to me –: law against macho violence, December 2004; law on the regularization of immigrants, 580,000 papers that were given to immigrant people where most were women with minor children in charge; law on express divorce; law on homosexual marriage; law known as the law of dependency, which I spoke of in my first intervention; law on equality, pioneer, which you some things vote for, but when it comes time to make it effective and put women on the front line of the demonstration, there they do not go; law on the right to abortion, look at how Gallardón ended; and law on equal treatment and non-discrimination, which remained on the table and which is a commitment of Pedro Sánchez. After the grey years of Mariano Rajoy, in which state pacts are adopted at the request of the left parties and to which you do not have a budget, proposes the amendment of the Penal Code to properly define the violence suffered by women in Spain; recovery of assisted reproduction for women alone or lesbians; decree on equality to promote equality in the field of work, which you carried out with the labor reform. The compulsory and non-transferable paternity permit is extended so that it does not prejudice the decision to be a mother to whom it is decided to do so. Registers are required with the salaries of those employed in order to ensure that equality is effective. Decree on gender-based violence: allows minors to receive psychological care and assistance without permission from the father when there is a final sentence or a criminal case opened for ill-treatment or abuse. It is implementing measures of the Covenant against Gender Violence, which you put into writing, but do not put it into action. Decree on the Employment Activation Programme, to cater for many long-term unemployed women, and to allow them to continue to receive a subsidy. Proposal for a law on the training of judges and prosecutors in the field of equality. And last Friday, those Fridays that bother you so much, I decree on the quote of the caregivers, something we're talking about today. Look, Mrs. Garrido, everyone has their ideology, absolutely legitimate and respectable, but the Socialist Party, neither the Spanish Worker nor the Basque Worker, lessons on equality neither means nor means. Because it is true that the State Pact against Gender Violence was something that was called for in society, which even Mariano Rajoy approved, but if it does not have a budget, especially if it promises to put in a few hundred million euros, which did not work, at least do not come here and treat us as if we were fools. Bad that he treats us, but that's what they tell the citizens! And I repeat to you again: you lie. They're choosing some fellow travellers in equality matters that you'll know, but don't tell us movies. They want to bring to the Electoral Board the social decrees that affect citizens' equal rights...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u20	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u21	Because they understand politics differently...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u22	Mrs Garrido, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u23	I have respected you, Mrs. Garrido. What happens is that, in the end, there are issues that affect us more or we believe more, but this is an ideological issue, Mrs. Garrido, it is an ideological issue. And you know what I'm saying? That after reading him the battery of some laws of Rodriguez Zapatero and some of the social measures taken by Pedro Sánchez, the one who comes behind that tie; I no longer ask him or that he overcome us, but that he tie. They don't believe it and they're being noticed too much. And in case you had any doubt, the law of macho violence was a socialist law; the law of equality was a socialist law; the law of abortion was a socialist law, and Mr. Married, with your support, wants to return to the abortion of the 80's. Look at us in the face of the women of this generation; we want to decide about our lives, those of our daughters and with our body. Leave us alone. They're not going to the demonstration tomorrow, because they're neither here nor expected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u24	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Is Lady Arreg going to take the word? Eubertarians?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u25	Yes, with your permission, from the seat. Just to say that the laws I believe are not of one party or another, and that these bronchic speeches, of course, weak favor the work in favor of equality. I believe that the laws, once passed, must be complied with by all and by all, we like them more or less, but I believe that the laws are neither socialist, nor of the Basque Nationalist Party, nor of the People's Party. Laws are laws. I believe, Mrs. Red, that you are wrong about that. And I believe that what we need to do is to continue, in a calm way, working for equality and, in the case we were dealing with today, to value the care and the work that caregivers are doing. And I share with Mrs Etxebarrieta that we were not just talking about caring for dependents, but about caring in general. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. The discussion's over and we'll vote... Yeah? Miss Arana?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u27	I don't know if we're clear what we're going to vote for. There is one group that has asked us to vote for points; in principle, it would be all but 2 in one block: 2 in one block, and the rest in the other.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u28	- Valerie, perfect. That's how we vote. The middle-way, the Podemos, Euskal Socialists, EH Collectors, and Eucanbertians, shall vote for the intermediate correction which has been signed by the Teams; first, 1.3. 4. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 73; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u29	So, unanimously, points number one, 3.4. And next time, we vote for number two. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in conferences, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 65; rivals, 0; white, 0; abstations, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u30	So it's been accepted for the 2nd media. even the point. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, Edurne Garcia, introduced together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos, in the Esscal administration, and especially in the feminated departments of the litigated drugs. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Garcia, the word is yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u31	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Well, let's see if we don't end up like at the previous point, which, despite the agreement... This looks different. Any situation of injustice and discrimination is not acceptable in a democratic society, and the wage gap between women and men is undoubtedly an injustice and discrimination. That is why we are bringing to this House today an initiative that proposes concrete measures for the defence of equality, in the face of the wage gap between women and men, which is a social, trade union and political demand of the highest order, as we have already explained in the question of a few weeks ago that we made to the lehendakari. And we are aware that it is not the only social demand for equality, but it is a very clear example of equality, and it perfectly reflects the discrimination and inequalities that affect women in the labour market and throughout life. Faced with this situation, Elkarrekin Podemos has since the beginning of this legislature presented concrete proposals to help eliminate the wage gap, measures that have the support of both the unions and the feminist movement and other social actors. We have repeated this on many occasions: democratic governments must compensate and rebalance the inequalities generated by capitalist and patriarchal logic applied to labour relations. Democratic governments must be the first to comply with their recommendations and plans, such as the wage gap, in their areas of competence and influence. The Basque Government should promote action and policy changes in the areas of its own responsibility or in any other area included in its plans, in order to implement effective measures to eliminate the wage gap between women and men. But you are dedicated to making feminist propaganda, in front of the public, while, on a day-to-day basis, you turn your back on women who suffer an unacceptable wage gap. Paper endures everything; another thing is what is the effectiveness of the actions you propose. In Euskadi, the trade union movement plays its part as a demand for the elimination of the wage gap, and therefore, in the face of the blockade of companies, employers and governments in the different administrations, it promotes strikes that seek to reverse the policies of cuts and, if necessary, to eliminate the wage gap. It is not acceptable for democratic governments to be more concerned with reducing and avoiding the effect of strikes, while blocking the possibility of eliminating labour injustices, rather than reducing and eliminating the wage gap between women and men. In Euskadi – we have already commented on some the wage gap is 14,3 % if the European indicator is taken as a reference. But if we compare the average annual earnings, a Basque man earns 31,000 euros compared to almost 24,000 of a woman, which is 7,500 euros less per year; that is, 24.4%. At the level of the Basque Government, there is a pay gap of 8.5 per cent. We have not seen in the strategy presented by the Government a single clear action that represents the Government's unbroken commitment to resolving the problem at home, in an area that is within its entire competence. At the very least, it is symptomatic that you are very much given to draw up plans and strategies, but you also have an amazing ease not to apply them and not to comply with them. Of the nearly 100,000 people working in the area of responsibility of the Basque Government, more than 60 per cent are women, earning 24 per cent less than they are. This is a wage gap which increases if subcontracted workers are taken into account. It should also be noted that more than 40,000 people work on temporary contracts in the Basque Government, of which more than 55 per cent are women. In the Autonomous Administration, the rate of temporaryity among women is 65 per cent. This is because it increases when it comes to sectors such as cooking or cleaning, where the temporality between them reaches 70%, or in the field of justice, where 80% of the temporality has a woman's face. In Osakidetza, only 4% of women hold leadership positions, while the percentage of female workers is around 80% of the workforce. In addition, in the Basque Health Service, more than 92 per cent of conciliation measures are requested by women. At present, women workers in various sectors are making strikes in Euskadi, in a manner of feminist struggle and demand. Among them are the cleaners of the courts and police stations of Gipuzkoa, who have been on strike for 167 days against the wage gap; the residences of Gipuzkoa, which on 10 March will complete 35 days of strike for the dignification of care and against the wage gap; the help workers in Bizkaia's home, who have made 13 days of strike and have called five more for the dignification of care; the workers of direct management school eaters, who have called three days of strike from 20 to 22 March; as well as the public workers of school eaters, who have called strike on 13 and 28 March. Among its main demands for improvement are the improvement of wages, quantitative and qualitative steps, increases in wages, the elimination of the wage gap, significant improvements in the number of holidays and weekends, the improvement of the reconciliation of work and family life; finally, the recognition of the jobs essential for the sustainability of life, and the decent employment of women to cope with the precariousness in the feminized sectors. And this is a reality. In addition, we must add other conflicts which we have not mentioned but which also exist. If the Basque Government and the rest of the real Basque administrations are in favour of gender equality, they must resolve these conflicts. That simple. Otherwise, if they do not, the accession they are going to give on 8 March will be a complete falsehood, because behind that there is no real commitment to ending the precariousness and discrimination that we women suffer. The Basque Government approved a couple of days ago an instruction to incorporate equal pay for men and women in public contracts, within the framework of the strategy and operational plan of action against the wage gap. It draws attention to the fact that these measures are adopted on the eve of 8 March, with a clear intention of propaganda and portraying that they are adopting effective measures against gender discrimination. Nothing further from reality. The measures approved by the Basque Government are partial and absolutely insufficient, and they will not solve the wage gap that the administrations themselves are generating in their recruitments. We are clearly faced with a reaction to the political work being done by this parliamentary group to eliminate the injustice of a significant gender pay gap in public procurement. What a coincidence that these measures were introduced a few days before the debate on the motion we are presenting today in this House. You, as always, hilariously hilarious and looking for headlines and pictures, no matter what. In the absence of reading the instruction – which has not been forwarded for your information to our group, knowing the Government that it is a matter of concern to us – its content or the summary announced by the Government in a press release does not correspond to the holder: "The Government approves the incorporation of clauses for equal pay and measures against the wage gap in public procurement". Therefore, it is clearly an opportunistic measure that only pretends to make up that something is being done to narrow the wage gap when it is not. One of the main agreed measures is to establish the criteria for assessing the various undertakings which are submitted to a public tender, giving higher ratings to undertakings which meet certain conditions. It is therefore a measure that comes into play when a specific tender is launched in the administrations. And the fact of giving 5% more score does not guarantee in all cases that the contracted company will meet the objectives of equality. However, the problem of the wage gap in the administrations goes beyond and has a precedent: the sexual division of labour and the different evaluation of the activities that are outsourced. Thus, the work performed in the masculinized sectors is given greater value in the awards compared to the feminized jobs, which are already starting from a downward valuation. The principle of work of equal value, equal pay, in public contracts is not being complied with. The measures put forward do not solve this problem, which is the underlying reason behind the conflicts that are currently open to the wage gap; they do not solve either the above-mentioned conflict of cleaning up the courts of Gipuzkoa police stations, the Gipuzkoa residences, the Bizkaia home help service or any other. Therefore, if the wage gap in the administrations is to be narrowed, among other measures, an overall assessment of the various awards must be made by revising the criteria for the valuation of all the awards, guaranteeing the same value to jobs of the same nature, and overcoming the sexual division of workers in public awards. The responsibility of the Basque Government is evident in the outsourcing of the activity dependent on it, in its inaction in the intervention of conflicts where Basque public administrations address these issues, and is therefore responsible for maintaining the wage gap, as well as for hindering trade union and political opposition to it. Concrete solutions can be put in place and the wage gap can be effectively narrowed. It's a matter of political will. You have an opportunity to act and to fight the wage gap, resolving conflicts and making effective and real the fight against inequality between women and men in Euskadi. I would like to highlight the work that we are doing from our parliamentary group, from Elkarrekin Podemos, to force the Government to take measures, which otherwise they would never do. However, your proposal is clearly insufficient. That is why today we are presenting a motion that is much more ambitious than the measures put forward by the Basque Government, and it is also aligned with the demands of trade unions and the feminist movement. The Government, we believe, has more capacity to influence the wage gap, and the plan is short. It is possible to go beyond public procurement, as indicated in its measures; it is possible to work from the broad social dialogue with trade unions, with the feminist movement and with the adoption of measures that reverse the precarious situation of women workers on behalf of others, of the self-employed, of those who work without a contract, of those who take care of and are not recognized for their work and of so many others. For this reason, we have tabled a four-point motion calling for a commitment to equal pay and support for the demands of these workers seeking to eliminate the wage gap and improve working conditions, as well as a commitment and support for the strikes that take place in the face of the blockage of companies, employers and administrations. And as a result, we reject the actions of the different local, outlying and autonomous administrations and governments aimed at curtailing and violating the strike of these workers. In addition, in our motion we are talking about making policy and management changes in all areas of competence and influence, especially in those related to the recruitment and outsourcing of services, ensuring real measures to eliminate the wage gap between women and men; the application of a minimum wage of EUR 1,200 per month with 14 pay; the achievement of higher annual wage increases in the low stages of the different wage levels, reducing the wage gap between the maximum wage and the minimum wage; and the application of a weekly working day of 35 hours. In addition, we call for equal working conditions for women in their areas of competence to be guaranteed in jobs comparable to those of men, with the corresponding funding allocated to them. In areas where comparison is not possible, it is urged to finance a wage increase of up to 20% with the aim of compensating for the existence of a wage gap between women and men in outsourced public contracts. Finally, we also call for regulatory and management changes in all areas of competence and influence related to the recruitment and outsourcing of services, ensuring subrogation of staffing in subcontracts, job-guaranteed reversal processes and, failing that, work conditions equalization processes as a necessary condition to eliminate the wage gap between women and men. This is our proposal; clear and concrete measures to help eliminate the wage gap, proposals that are supported by the unions and the feminist movement and respond to the demands of women workers to eliminate the wage gap in the Basque public administrations, especially in the more feminized sectors that are on strike. You decide what you prefer, whether the drum ads and tray of plans, instructions and strategies that only provide photos and headlines, or work and implement real solutions that have a real impact on the defense of wage equality, as proposed by the motion we are presenting today. In Elkarrekin We can be clear: the wage gap between women and men is not acceptable in a democratic society. It is an injustice and discrimination, and we will continue to work to reverse this situation in Euskadi. We support the strike tomorrow, on March 8, and we want to accompany the feminist movement to take the streets, to continue to fight for visibility of the demands – including the elimination of the wage gap – to the feminist tide, which is unstoppable. Last year we showed that we can stop the world. Now it's our turn to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. I rise to the rostrum today to convince you of two basic ideas, which are the ones that contain the amendment to the whole that we have tabled to the initiative of Elkarrekin Podemos, and I will ask you to support it calmly and to move forward, because I believe that it is something that we all fully agree on. Look, we want Parliament to show its commitment and support for any initiative aimed at eliminating the wage gap between men and women, between any person, when they perform the same job functions, the same content and under the same conditions. I mean, the pay gap disappears. That, Mrs García, is what is at the heart of your initiative and I know that you agree with that, and that is why I ask you to support our amendment, because we cannot support the concrete measures that you propose. I can support the right to strike of all women and men; for God's sake, it would be more lacking. We do agree on that. But to blindly support strikes by certain women's groups is something that goes beyond my possibilities, for the simple reason that there will be reasons for those strikes that we will not share. That is, we can support that right to strike, but not in general any strike that is promoted by women. But, well, that's not the biggest difference between your position and ours. Nor can I support raising the interprofessional minimum wage to 1,200 euros for women, because I understand that this would have an absolutely perverse effect on women's employment, because it would mean the immediate destruction of many jobs. That, combined with the 35-hour maximum weekday, I believe would mean the destruction of two groups of women: young women and women over 45, who are the sectors most affected by unemployment. These are the policies that are being implemented. That is the policy of raising the interprofessional minimum wage – which we already have the data on the table – to 900 euros, and it is entailing the destruction of jobs. These are the socialist employment policies, which have always led us in Spain to the destruction of millions of jobs. It is not a political discourse; it is a reality. In 2011, the female unemployment rate was 22.92%, much higher than that of men. When Mariano Rajoy left La Moncloa, he left the government presidency last year, in July last year, that unemployment rate was 16.26. That's real data. I do not invent them myself, they are not from the CIS of Tezanos; they are the real data of unemployment in recent years in Spain. And at that time, when the People's Party government ended, the rate of women's social security membership was 46.4%. Never in Spain had so many women worked, they were discharged in Social Security. Never in Spain had so many women had an indefinite contract. Today's data is worse. I am not going to make the demagogic trap of comparing the data of social security affiliation or unemployment of one month of July with those of one month of February, which are the last ones we have on the table, because, obviously, seasonality in employment is very important, and they are always going to be better those of July, but I assure you that when those of next July arrive and compare they are going to be worse, because the policies that are being implemented I think are not the most appropriate ones. I do share with you that a study is carried out in all companies, indeed, and that the working conditions of men and women who perform the same functions are compared, and that it is made public if there is the slightest wage gap. But when that cannot be done, as you have proposed to us in your initiative today, and there is no point of comparison, directly that women's wages are raised by 20%, then, man, it seems to me a measure that the women concerned might like very much. I don't understand why you didn't come up here, and already put us off the bike, we say that instead of 20 it is 40% or not 15, that I think measures that look very good on a pamphlet, but that are not really fair and that is why I don't consider them serious, and that is why I can't support them, Mrs García. The second idea that I would like to convey to you, therefore, is that we are going to urge the Government to make effective policies to break the wage gap, as has been done. I mean, in the year... – I think we have the data for 2011 and 2017 – the wage gap in 2011, according to Eurostat, was 18.7%, the average in Spain. The last data we have had, I think, is for 2016, and it has already fallen to 14.2%. I hope the new one is also positive, which I am sure, because it will correspond to the 2018 financial year and in that year no harmful measures had been taken for employment, which they do is to increase inequalities. We want them to be effective policies; we don't want them to be political, if I may, demagogic. To announce when we approach the 8th of March the implementation of instructions, of plans of measures that are a little old – some already contained in the requests of Emakunde of the year 2012 – I would be ashamed; if since 2012, which are in force, they have not been put in place, dear, it is not like to announce that we are going to do it, but as to ask for forgiveness because it has not yet been done. It's a shame that the work counselor has the agenda so busy and she hasn't come to listen to us. I thank you, Mrs Artolazabal, for being responsible for Employment to listen to us on this issue. But that the groups supporting the Government have to ask the councillor to create specific units in the Labour Inspectorate to combat the wage gap, to inspect companies, employers who do not comply with the regulations, because it is our order that says that men and women cannot be discriminated against on the basis of sex, in any matter and less, of course, in pay matters, something that the councillor has already sold for a long time, which is the start-up of these special units, and now it turns out that the groups supporting the Government come here to tell us that it is not done and that, please, they urge it to do so, and above all ask it to train the labour inspectors on the wage gap. But what's going on? Is it that the labour inspectors are not trained in this matter? I don't believe it. It has to be a mistake because the amendments were made to run all the way to introduce them because of the fact that it was a questionable motion. But I just can't believe that the labour inspectors don't have that training. Perhaps Mrs Sánchez, if she goes down to the rostrum, as that body knows very well, can tell us exactly what she is referring to, because I am sure she does not share that the labour inspectors do not have sufficient training in the area of wage gaps. Because we are calling for this commitment and because we are calling for effective, non-effective measures in the area of equal rights between men and women in labour and in the area of wages, I am asking you to support the motion of the People's Party, for the simple reason that it is much better, precisely on the date we are here, that we show an agreement, even in basic and simple ideas, than a confrontation and that in the end no resolution emerges from this plenary in this particular matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u34	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u35	Yes, thank you. Good morning again. Well, we said that we agreed with the proposal that Podemos introduced to us, or that we agreed with his own principle, because he doesn't only plan the salary of women to pay at the age of 1200, and we've had the difference, whether the social clauses ought to be together or at least a request, but for everyone, if I don't misunderstand them. If it's only for women, you know, to put on top of the table things that for once will be positive for women. It's a joke, but on that side, at least, we protected the spots that were there. And I agree with the doubt you planned, and I think Mrs. problemmbe can explain to us at the second point that climb, that 20% of that climb. We didn't understand where he came from, and I think it belongs to him rather than to me to explain it, but we asked him for an explanation. And it is precisely that they are not comparative, but that the same professions which are employed in different sectors may be asked to be the same wages I know well enough to explain to you, and Edurn will probably do better than I do. Therefore, if we were to agree with the principle, our difference has been either in the frame. It was a proposition which required a law of social clauses or social clauses which we presented to us, not to diminish what was represented by Podemos, but because we understood that the points which appeared within a law of social clauses must be included. And in that case, we believe that we are agreed, because we see that if we establish social clauses in sub-contradictions, we must encourage the quality of a job which now exists and is under contract, or is subroged, that it is necessary to promote labour, to guarantee security, to guarantee the lack of language, the equality of women and men. And here we believe that as the public sector now is the principal employment donor of the Basque Autonomia Escimia, and also the direct contractors that are made with the private sector, the conditions must be matched, because we are talking about a two-speed public sector, and because we believe that in our salary there is an enormous amount of influence. Why? The rest, because many, sub-contradicted, or subrogated professions, and many of them, are highly feminized sectors. And so we, among other things, insisted that in this law of social clauses, there was no doubt that we made a proposition here, and that there was also assembled to establish the minimum pay of 1,200 euros at the time of the contract. That was what we were asking for, full of the conditions of the last labor contract in the country. In the midst of what private enterprises ought to be fulfilled, the conditions of work, the criteria of environment and equality, ought to be regulated or regulated, and therefore as the principal point or point of view that cap or that general frame. Moreover, I believe that this instrument, though timidly present in the course of this week by the President Erkoa, wanted to go away; because we think it's a positive or positive rewarding for the conditions of public contracts, but that it's not enough to face the present situation and the breach. And this week, about the 8th of March, was discussed that the government presents so many things, so do we bring with us, as a political party, on the table, and, I don't know, sometimes doubt that we should do something about March 8th, November 25th, even when the 1st of May approaches, but in general, I know about the government, and also in the case of the chapters of the chapter, the political sects, and perhaps transport them to the other days. It's everybody's business. I don't want to underestimate the proposals that have come in here at all. No doubt they're important, and we'll also protect the proposition itself. But what the government has done is to include everything this week. And what happens or what's left for later? That's another point for the discussion. But again, if we think that if we wish to promote changes, we should apply to the law of progress and revulsivosivo. Now, as we have done by the Populous Party, it is what we ask, if we wish to encourage this change, to give the law of social clauses, at the moment when we are on the platform, at least to discuss about it, because we believe that it may be placed and must be placed, and that one of the points between these great differences now present. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u37	Thank you, President. Tomorrow is commemorated on 8 March, an important date in the fight for equality between men and women. Today we are going to discuss measures to eliminate the wage gap in the Basque administrations and in feminized sectors. It is a pity that on the eve of 8 March we were unable to reach a unanimous consensus on a subject like this. But I believe that, of course, all the political groups in this House are about to take steps and work to eliminate the wage gap that many women continue to suffer today. Non-discrimination in pay or equal pay for work of equal value between women and men is defined as a right and a fundamental principle enshrined in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and protected not only by European law, but also at the international, State and Autonomous Community levels in the Basque Country. The gap reproduces and perpetuates the inequality of women and men in our society, with some of the consequences of wage inequality being women's lower economic autonomy, higher poverty rates and a direct impact on social security contributions, which are to be translated, when they receive pensions, into another gap of 44 per cent. There are many factors that produce it; among them, the lower social and economic valuation of work performed by women; the different positions of women and men in the labour market, marked by gender relations and stereotypes; or the lack of co-responsibility in care work, among others. We have made a great deal of progress in recent years, but we still have a long way to go to achieve effective equality between men and women and real equality in pay. But in our autonomous community we do not start from scratch. On the one hand, the Governing Council approved on 27 November 2018 the 2030 Strategy and operational plans to reduce the wage gap in Euskadi between women and men, being referred back to the Basque Parliament, and whose goal is for Euskadi to be placed by 2030 at the levels of the five European countries with less wage inequality. This plan envisages the definition of a combined strategy of medium- and long-term elements, setting out the vision of objectives they aim to achieve by the 2030 horizon. In the short term, an operational plan with support policy measures is approved, aimed at achieving progress in the period 2018-2020 in a greater wage equality between men and women, and which, in addition, meets the requirement made at the beginning of 2018 in the Basque Parliament and which, in addition, was a commitment made within the programme of government of the eleventh legislature, signed between the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. This operational plan to reduce the wage gap in Euskadi between men and women includes a diagnosis of the current situation and recent developments in the wage gap in the Euskadi Autonomous Community, in addition to recommendations gathered through a constant process of input from economic actors, citizens, academic experts, women's associations, agencies and institutions. But, in addition to this plan, we were pioneers in the state in January 2018, from the Department of Labour and Justice, to launch the Labour Inspection campaign to fight against fraud and job insecurity. And we are ahead of the campaign that in this same line began at the national level in August last year, being Pedro Sánchez in the government. The effectiveness of the Labour Inspectorate activity achieved during 2018 was 44%, compared to 13% in 2017. Of these, 53% were women and 47% were men. And, of course, the inspection proceedings during 2019 will continue to affect the fight against fraud in recruitment. It envisages the implementation of a specific plan for the Labour Inspection of Equal Pay, which directly affects two of the main causes of the wage gap, namely wage discrimination and labour fraud. The plan includes the creation of specific labour inspection units in the three Basque territories, as well as the training and explanatory aspects of the wage gap. And Mr. Ruiz de Arbulo, this is no stranger. There are specific occupational safety and health units. Why is there not going to be specific units, precisely in a matter as important as this one? I think it's positive. It is not the first specific unit created in the Labour Inspectorate. That's good, and there's a Labour Inspectorate training school. Are you surprised that there are training courses in different subjects? The labour inspectors, of course, know many of the subjects, but they have a permanent training school to be able to delve into a multitude of subjects: in the prevention of occupational risks, in the pay gap, etc., etc. That's not new or bad. Quite the opposite; I think it's pretty good. And then, on 1 March 2019, the Royal Decree Law on Urgent Measures at the national level, by the Government of Spain, has been adopted to guarantee equal treatment and opportunities in employment and occupation, the objective of which is to eliminate this wage gap and to guarantee the right of workers to conciliation and responsibility, where the concept of work of equal value is introduced into our system; that is, where the nature of the functions or tasks actually entrusted, the professional or training educational conditions required for their exercise in the factors strictly related to their performance and the working conditions are equivalent. In addition, it provides that the company will keep a register of wage tables to which workers will be able to access through their trade union representation or the staff delegate. In addition, in the area of effective equality of men and women, the amendment to Organic Law 3/2007 of 22 March is proposed for the implementation of such equality plans, not only in companies with more than 250 workers, as was currently the case, but also in companies with more than 50 workers. There are many measures at the autonomous and state level that have been taken in the fight against the wage gap, and they demonstrate the commitment of this Government (the Basque Government) and the Government of Spain to the fight against the wage gap. We did not agree with the initiative put forward by Podemos, although we did, of course, agree to take action to eliminate this wage gap, because we believe that they make a totum revolution. That is why we are supporting the amendment to the whole that we have tabled, signed by the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, in which the Basque Government is urged to continue to adopt, implementing the possible tools available in the VII Equality Plan for Women and Men; to continue within this strategy of the operational action plan to reduce the Euskadi wage gap; because, moreover, we are setting ourselves as a goal to be in 2030 within the five European countries with the lowest wage gap. And then let us continue this specific plan for the Labour Inspectorate of Equal Pay which has been put in place, which I believe is important enough and good enough to achieve precisely good results in this area. And then we also included the creation of those specific Labour Inspectorate units in the three territories, which I think is positive, and that there are other specific units, and I think that this would also be good if it existed within the Labour Inspectorate. I believe that these are measures that serve to fight and advance the reduction of the wage gap, precisely on this issue, without mixing a totum Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u38	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. On the 22nd of February, the day of wages between women and men was celebrated. A year ago, as Mrs. García said, we had an argument about the pay-ract. Then I took the subject myself, in the name of my party, and then, yes, we had the opportunity of confirming a large agreement. But today, alas, we are not present in the same situation. And I'm afraid it's one of the factors that nowadays influence and perpetuates the difference between women and men. The lack of equality between women and men produces and perpetuates a salary difference. In the year 2016, I say the record, for the last time, the lady's personal income with a woman was 15,578 euros, the mean of men (that is to say, 10,000 smaller than 25.696 euros). The proportion of women who have no income is 15,3%, and of men 10,8%. The proportion of women who have a income of 15,000 euros is greater than that of men. Now, above this number, the situation is inverted. The proportion of men who have a income over 15,000 euros is greater than that of women at all points. And if we do a world-level test, we women win less than 23 percent, averagely. And this situation has no limit, no front line, no special sector, no age or quantization account. It's something that happens in every country. I shall not again, as I did last year, attempt to explain the causes of wages, which produce numbers of factors, and the other, the diminution of women's labor, the inferior share in the trade, the post of which we consume, or discrimination. We women generally gain less because we have less than the hourly tasks paid, especially because we work in the lower sectors, or because we have fewer delegations in the upper companies than men. Sectors, the main difference is in the service sector, where most women join. As we can clearly see, we talk of discrimination once more, we speak of lack of equality, and we must have the engagement of all of us to resist it. It's the responsibility of this parliament, of the Administration, of the corporate officials, of the unions, of the whole society, of everyone. Iceland fills the first part of the world's economic rate in the world's economic area between 144 countries. That's where they started developing the budgets of the genus view in the year 2009, and from that time on, they've been keeping up this determined commitment by examining the budgets from that point of view. The government of Iceland has created a special means to promote equality in Administration, and in this matter it has become a matter of reference to its careers and achievements all over the world. I've been working for 10 years on the budget of the genus view to push public policies on and bring in the general goal of getting equality between women and men by indirect means. No demagogue, allava un la lamarino recordo en la saena direccio. The program of government, combined with its objectives for 2020 to 2030 bearables, is the commitment of the equality of genera, for the equality of women and men to the equality of men. The plan determines to include a genre view in budgets as a purpose for the good government. Again, Euskikak, 2009. In the course of years, like Iceland, it systematically systematically performs the report of the genus-engineer, and here they are made on General Preservative. But the performance does its report of inspections. Today, 99% of the budget, 87 take into account the property of the genus, and the budget has a large and medium significance in 96% of the budget. Generogin's study has been added to the general administration procedure in preparation. All autonomous departments and organizations have to investigate their budget programs and report them to the tax and economy department. I'll bet you for the four first European countries in the Euskadai genus. It is also sought to place between them, and to improve public policy in order to introduce a genus view, by applying to all the grades of the budget the concept of the genus-variety. President Urcullu's government established at first three challenges against the population of equality; 7. The plan of equality is to make, to accept, and to develop, to set up a legal scope for violence, and to make a plan of avoiding the pay-makers. This same week, the plan of the Eukko, which takes measures against the pay-making contract between men and women, has been introduced by Euskalion. This plan is to place between the five countries preponderant in the Basque Union, in the sphere of contraction, in every respect, and in every respect the sum of the women in the social world, to advance in responsibilities, to form equality in groups, to place protocols for sexual harassments and sexual harassments, and to assign negligation, to the use of time-malgation, to the help-service, the dining-rooms, and the nursery-rooms too young. Demagogy? Is it demagogy because it was introduced in March? What if he shows up in May, October, or September? So there's no argument against this plan? The operating plan has four deeds of action, 20 rights, 60 specific measures, 283 million Euro economic resources predicting for the next two years. Madam García, you have asked for exact actions from the Government, which are more precise than exact here. And what are these axes? Now, first of all, to reduce the discount of the salary hour. I will say it in a general way, otherwise there would be no time at all; as the second axis, the reduction of the disparency of the day's activities; as a third axis, the sense of education and society; and as a fourth axis, the sense of the corporations and unions. The path to equality must be followed by all, and that is why this type of action is directed at those who work in the various areas of recruitment and recruitment bodies, but also to those who promote contracts, who detect and know the needs and know better than anyone what requirements on equality of women and men can perfectly play a role in each recruitment. We continue to make steady progress. Last week a few days on fiscal policy and gender perspective were held for the first time, organized by the Tax Coordination Body, which served to deepen fiscal policy further from a gender perspective. We live in a society increasingly committed to equality. It is necessary to take further steps and continue with the reinforcement begun years ago, to improve the tax system from a gender perspective and to be aware that the decisions we make meet the objectives that we have set ourselves in order to achieve an equal society. On the other hand, the Basque Government has recently launched the specific plan for the Inspection of Equal Work – I have little time left and Mrs Sánchez has already explained it during her shift, but, well –; this increase in inspection units and her specific training will allow for a comprehensive inspection action in this area, addressing issues such as the control of temporary and part-time recruitment fraud. We proposed to work on all these described aspects in our corrections; we had a relationship with other groups, and we tried to approach our position. We were far enough from the text of the proposed party, which, in our opinion, confused so many subjects; we do not think they were well put forward, at least in a proper manner, and in a very general manner many fat subjects. At last we thought that the efficiency was lost; rather to go to the details, in order to be effective. As to the correction of the Basque People, though they may agree in the concept, we do not believe that it is the moment of a new law. Here is the plan which has taken measures against the public pay of the exchange between men and women, and which is to be given, as we hope, an opportunity of seeing whether it is possible or not. And we agreed with the correction of the Populan team, though it is a general plan, it is only necessary that we should know whether it agrees with ours or not. I wanted to answer Mr. Ruiz de Abulo, but he'll have to be on the second round, because I don't have time. I just want to say that, for all that, we see the correct correction of our teams with the Socialist team in order to promote the policies and actions that are to be reduced to the pay-rolling of Eukadin. The will and commitment are demanded to the government, and they are here, and that's what we're going to protect today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the answers, Mrs. García, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u41	Thank you, ma'am. Let's start at the beginning. Mr Arbulo, the truth is that your amendment is full of generalities and goes a little in line with what your own party thinks of feminism, and under no circumstances can we approve something that remains a little out of nowhere. In addition, in her speech she spoke about the unemployment rate, spoke about Rajoy's achievements and asked for explanations that Mrs Etxebarrieta has given her. But I will explain to you, with regard to the third point of our motion, that I was talking about financing a salary increase of up to 20%. It is necessary because, precisely – and I will give you a clear and concrete example – today we come to talk about things that happen in reality, not just about plans and vagueness. In the case of women workers in the judicial offices and the police stations in Gipuzkoa, they require, in order to match their salary with that of road cleaning workers, a rise of 7 and 13 %, respectively, which implies that this should be increased in the budget allocation, and that is something the Government can do. We can't go out here and say "you can't, you can't do that, it's impossible, you're asking...". No, that's not true. It can be done, it can be done; what happens is that there is no will. Mrs Etxebarrieta, I agree with your reflection: it is true that we do not just have to be talking about these issues at the door of 8 March, and it is true that these issues are sometimes given an opportunism that does not like or that in some way must be contained, or at least must be put aside, because the issue is sufficiently serious. Apart from that, it is evident – you have well explained the differences we had – that it was a structural issue. Of course we will support his amendment, and of course we agree, but we understood that our motion had other specific issues and that we did not find a way to accommodate them, but we are not against them at all. Moreover – and both Mrs Arrizabalaga and Mrs Sánchez have cited this, if I am not mistaken – a year ago, it is clear that it was worked on an agreement and there was a consensus, of course, but it was worked on a first agreement. Now, when we bring concrete measures, that is when there is no agreement. I think this is the reflection we have to make. Because, in addition, Mrs. Sánchez was telling us about a totum revolution. And with regard to what you two have said about the instruction for equal pay for men and women and measures against the wage gap presented by the Government a few days ago, I think it has become very clear that it is not binding. We are faced with a concretion of the state and autonomous law without a binding character; it does not oblige by contract to eliminate the wage gap. It also states that the contractual obligation to avoid existence, to avoid the existence of remunerative discrimination between women and men is established, which does not mean that the contractual obligation to eliminate remunerative discrimination is established. It's not the same as avoiding existence. We can't agree. Moreover, it is insufficient when it says "procurement bodies will incorporate in the procurement documents award criteria for the equality of women and men whose weight will be at least 5 % of the total scale". That percentage is clearly insufficient, and it says a lot about the weight it wants to give to introducing such measures. Moreover, it does not help to reduce precariousness. If we look at the criteria included in that 5%, we see that there are none explicitly referring to the reduction or elimination of the wage gap. On the other hand, those aspects that indirectly affect it, such as applying job improvements to the staff implementing the contract, improvements in working conditions and wages that exceed the provisions of the Workers' Statute or the sectoral and territorial collective agreement or, where appropriate, of an enterprise, or the conversion of temporary contracts into indefinite contracts and the conversion of part-time contracts into full-time contracts, are not imperative and do not directly attack the sources of precariousness identified there. And, besides, it's that – barkatu We understand that they refer to illegal discrimination; of course, it would only be missing. This does not mean or make absolutely clear which jobs of equal value are paid differently to women and men; for example, men's road cleaning and women's official buildings. Nor, in particular, what happens to the obligation of the contracting companies to avoid the existence of remuneration discrimination – if they do not avoid it with the contract, what happens. It is not the same as having a contractual obligation to eliminate pay discrimination. In turn, monitoring and complements do not ensure that such remunerative discrimination does not occur under the contract. And, finally, you do not have the instructions that you have submitted a budget envelope. And if you don't set up a endowment – you know better than I do – the intention that there is part of that funding for labour and social improvements that directly attack the reduction or elimination of the wage gap, without allocating sufficient resources, we wonder how you intend to put it in place. In short, we do believe that we are providing concrete solutions, and you can continue to sell us plans, axes and strategies that, indeed, on paper, and as you tell us, sound very beautiful. But all we are doing is moving here a demand from the feminist wage gap movement, with a series of conflicts behind which belong to the public administration, and which also depend on the public administration to be resolved, and to which absolutely nothing is being done. We believe that, based on the absolute consensus that we all want to eliminate the wage gap, it is only a matter of political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, welcome, even if it is only part of the debate. Mrs Etxebarrieta, excuse me, but in the first speech I did not justify our group's position on your amendment. I forgot. We cannot support it, because asking the government to bring us a law does not seem serious to me. That is, this Government does not even comply with what it has brought in its legislative timetable, nor does it. That is, we are already asking you at this stage of the legislature to bring us a bill, so it is going to be like no. I mean, I'd think it was a hairdo. But if you bring a proposal for a law, I promise to sit together and try to push it forward, because I think the goal that is being pursued is good. Thank you for the explanations, Mrs García, but, I'm sorry, you have not convinced me, and therefore I cannot support you. However, I am very pleased, because I have not heard anyone vote against the proposal that we have put on the table, nor have I heard any argument as to why it cannot be supported. That may mean that you go ahead, and I'm warning you that I would be very excited, because it would be nice to reach an agreement on this point today. Yes, indeed, it is a moment... They have brought this debate today; it is a bit opportunistic, I do not know, like the measures taken by the Government, Mrs Arrizabalaga. They are effective, but they are not effective. If you put concrete measures on the table today, for example, the Government's own competence. Is there a pay gap in the civil service? Mrs García has put data on us on the table; I do not know where they came from and whether they are true or not, but I do not doubt it. We all know that there is a wage gap within the civil service. Bring us concrete measures. As from 1 April, these measures will be taken to make that 8% disappear within the framework of the Basque Government. That is a commitment to ensure that the wage gap disappears in what is the Government's own sphere and competence. But they don't. This is that before, when there is a problem to solve it, if you don't want to solve it, it's best that you make a presentation; when you don't want to take concrete action, then look, what we do are strategies and plans, we publish them, we leave them there and nothing happens at all. But we did not take the concrete measures; concrete measures, which I told Mrs Sánchez, I did not have to explain myself well... I am not surprised that a specific unit is created for the fight against the wage gap in the Labour Inspectorate. What surprises me is that being one of the banners that this government has raised after more than two years of legislature, they are no longer created. That's what surprises me. It seems very good to me that the labour inspectors are being trained. How bad it's gonna look to me! What is surprising to me is that being one of the objectives that the councilwoman set herself at the beginning of her term of office, such training has not already been given. It is not that it is against their training; what I am surprised is that the specific units have not been set up and that the specific training measures have not been taken for labour inspectors, so that they can effectively combat this wage gap, which is not legal. What we are asking is for legality to be fulfilled, apart from political or philosophical-political objectives that we have already talked about in the first round. You are fortunate, because you have been able to extract the measures from the royal decree that was adopted last Friday in the Council of Ministers. I haven't made it, no; I, the only thing I've found is the press release. They say the bad languages that will be expected to be published tomorrow, March 8th; I do not know whether it will be true or not. I, of course, have not been able to read it, but we will see whether these measures achieve the goal or are simply political propaganda in the pre-election campaign. Thank you very much. Ah! I urge you to vote for our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. EHGG rep. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u45	We will vote in your amendment, but we will vote against it. On the one hand, I'd like to say that you've talked about Iceland, and I remember one of our first discussions, you told me that we were looking at Iceland a lot, and we're very glad that you're beginning to share our obsession with that country. And besides, under the ground, though he is not here, we wish him a good and generous journey, because we think there's much to learn from him, and, well, he'll tell us what he can find there. In all these observations which may be placed upon the table, it is plain that we make one, but I believe that day the essence of the matter is a fraudulous road. That is to say, how it is still contracted, in what condition it is made, and how the work itself is valued, the work itself. And that's where some of the biggest differences happen. I know that there is a design of making an examination of the employment, in which they are derived from this examination of the pay-alas, and we believe it is very important, because they are not of the same value to the different employments of the same rank at the present day. That he will look at the length, and in that way the proposal which Podemos brought with him to-day brought in, as we believe, certain and useful ways. And therefore we shall protect this proposition, because it puts its particular paths on the table, and rather than to begin by making the way, because we see it as a possibility of making certain measures to the desktop. Thus, as I have said, we will both defend the proposition which we have proposed together of Poseidon and of ours. MADAME DE ROSEMONDE! On the other hand, I would like to tell Mr. Arbulus not to sit with me, but I'll invite you to sit down with Mrs. Ugarte, who will bring this discussion about social clauses, and, well, we'll see how far and what agreement we can get to, but I appreciate the proposal we've made. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u47	Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, do not worry, that the royal decree is published today. Then, when it's finished – yes, it's been published today. You have not looked at today's bulletin, but it is already published today; it was approved by the Council of Ministers on Friday and today it is published in the official newsletter. When you're done with point three, if you're interested, I'll e-mail it to you. For general reasons, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, your amendment as a whole. Of course, what you proposed was commitment and always support for initiatives that seek to eliminate wage inequality. If you wish to make this commitment, I would ask you to vote in favour of our amendment as a whole, because it is the one which is the most concrete commitment to this very subject, to the wage gap, from which we have presented ourselves at the point we are debating today, and then you also call on the Basque Government to develop effective policies. But we have already made Mrs Arrizabalaga and I a list of what has been done in the Basque Government in a lot of initiatives! The Operational Action Plan 2020, Mrs García, is the first plan of our Autonomous Community, but it has four axes of action defined with a lot of actions in each of them. And it has four axes: reducing wage-hour inequality, reducing inequality in working hours, in education and social awareness, and in business and trade union awareness. Read it, because it collects a lot of specific actions in each of them. And we've made reference to that plan, obviously. But that plan already has many concretions collected! It does not give us time now to explain all the practicalities of that plan. That is why the plan is there, it is quite broad and contains many, many measures in this area, which will, precisely, facilitate us, in carrying out these actions, better results in the elimination of the wage gap. And Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, do not confuse the creation of the specific unit with the launch of the campaigns of the Labour Inspectorate either. It's two different things. The creation of a unit within the inspection carries out its procedures. It can't be done like this, from one day to the next. You have to carry out your internal procedure within the Basque Government for its implementation, taking into account the RPT, etc., etc. But another thing is for specific campaigns to be launched. Specific campaigns are already in place, don't worry; don't have any problems in that regard, or any concerns, because they are already in place. And we will have results, as we have also had in the campaigns that started in early January 2018 from the Department of Labour and Justice to fight the wage gap, which have so good results and which have managed to make indefinite many contracts that were made in our Autonomous Community in law fraud. These are real and effective measures to combat the wage gap and to make progress in real, effective equality between men and women, in all fields and also in the wage gap. That is why we will only vote in favour of our amendment as a whole, because it is the most concrete and the one that reflects these concrete actions directed in the right direction in order to make further progress in this area. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u48	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs García, you tell us that last year a broad agreement was adopted on the basis of which the foundations were laid, and that this year it was about taking that step towards concrete actions. Man, it was complicated. That is what we saw, of course, if the subject was not even focused on the original proposal. In your opinion, your original proposal contains very concrete actions, which may or may not be concrete, but, of course, for our group the approach is not the right one. It is very unrighteous about the approach. I'll explain to you why, and I'll tell you with all due respect, really. It speaks of a wage gap, but it also speaks of institutions such as ours, for example, which curtail and violate the strike of women workers. You will tell me how, where and when. And for once during this participation, I agree with what Mr Ruiz de Arbulo said to him when he explained the reasons why he is not going to support his amendment on this subject in the first point; I agree. Our group also argues the same. It doesn't make any sense for us to support this, when we don't know what the reasons are going to be for the strike. Okay? He also talks about a minimum wage and wage increase and specific working days... This does not help to narrow the wage gap, as has already been explained; there are many other factors, which are almost imperceptible, which cause the gap to be created, widened, surpluses, shorter working hours... Retribution is only one more consequence of this general structural problem. The crucial issue in the labour gap is conciliation, whether real motherhood or its foresight is a factor of weakness in access to employment or internal promotion; sadly, but it is so. Moreover, the responsibility to reconcile remains with women because of the lack of co-responsibility of men, the most obvious symptoms of inequality being horizontal segregation (feminization of certain sectors) and vertical segregation (glass roof). The wage gap, as the Lehendakari Urkullu pointed out to him during the inquiry that led to this motion, is a complex problem, of a structural nature and the result of the incidence of multiple causes. They not only affect economic factors; they also, and above all, socio-cultural factors, which cause a lower wage per hour worked and a lower number of hours spent on paid work by women. We therefore understood that those specific actions which you say reflect your amendment were not the right ones in this case. And Mr Ruiz de Arbulo said, during his first intervention, and then also during the second; first he spoke of opportunism and demagogy, and I repeat to him that when is the opportune time to present a plan; if it had happened in another month, what would he have said about it. Of course, I also came to say that, of course, these are 2012 requests, what a scandal. It's not like that. And in fact, the plan that has just been presented is based on the entire collection of information and data, from Emakunde's reports on the wage gap in Euskadi of March 2018 – late because I am translating from Basque to Spanish–; a quantitative study by the Lehendakaritza sociological review office on values of equality between men and women, of May 2018; a qualitative study also by the cabinet, of June 2018; perceptions and opinions of the women of Euskadi on the wage gap, of October 2018; and also the strategy on salary retention by the Basque Government and the operational plan, of October 2018. All this information has been collected in order to be able to diagnose and draft this plan that has just been presented, and it also tells us that it is inconcrete and why we do not support its amendment; I will pass it to you for a look. I repeat, more than 60 concrete measures, 20 guidelines and four strategic axes. That is why we do not support yours; it is you, your group, who would have to support ours if what you are asking for is concrete action, and which, of course, we hope will be very, very effective and efficient; but time to time, as in everything. And, finally, what is needed to combat the wage gap are efficient mechanisms, as I said to them: transparency, monitoring of that labour inspection, training, social clauses, visibility –please, very important – and awareness, and a structural response, and that is what this government is doing. We are required or required by the Government to take concrete and efficient measures. These are the ones that are presented here today, and these are the ones that our group and the Socialist Group are going to support. And tomorrow, 8 March, Mrs García, I am also sure that many women who go out, that we go out on the street, we are also waiting, are also waiting for the implementation of these plans and these actions that this Government is developing; I am very convinced. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mrs. García Troublembie's original text of the motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 28; the opponents are 45; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u51	So, not allowed original text. Then we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 8; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0; the abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u52	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. We're going to vote for the full rights of the EH team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 28; the opponents are 45; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u53	So it's not accepted. And in the end, Eucabertians and Sociaists of Euzalia will vote for a full-signed correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 37; opponents 36; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u54	So the full correction has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced in Ibañez by the parliamentary members of the group of the Ibaña KH, about the state of residences of the older men of the Esquila Rascal Autonomia in the Erdi. Discipline and final resolution. On the page of the proposed team, Madame of the Kotha, the representative of the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u55	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. Now, 15 days ago, the commander of the Imperial Department was engaged on a new strike at the Gipuian ego, and we discussed the fact that the Basque People are very worried about what's going on in the synagogues of the age of Bizkai and Arbatua, and I must admit that this anxiety was by no means lightened here by the explanations or explanations given by the chief physician of the Artolaries. I wouldn't know how to define the ones that were thrown here. There had been no minimum authortics, and there had been no sign of what might take another direction, but there are some figures we're talking about. Ten years have elapsed since the law of the Social Services had been admitted, and the rights received in two and a half years from the foundation of social services and preparations, those of the old-year-old centres, two and a half years ago, had been introduced. The 21,4th of our population is more than 65 years old, and the tendency to increase comes from a long period of growth, and is expected to be 28,2 percent of 2031, and more older and longer. We live, moreover, more in a good state of health, even in bad health, and we cannot forbear talking of decency; Between the 8% of the population over 65, it has a kind of dementia, and, between over 80 years, the proportion is transmitted to 25%. It is shown that more than 65,000 has been rated by the Esscal population of many kinds. Besides, it is more and more common to find people who have not cared for, and this demands a greater and different degree of care than Egnononononono, or Labla. But in this situation, it's from 1998. one, the former century, the decree of the established retrogressions, which have lasted for about 21 years, and in these years have not been updated by the professional qualifications or profiles which belong to personal life, or by the functional and material needs which these centres ought to be. In this situation, 92 minutes average number, the time given to a resident in a gym center, and another cipher, 42, and in the Biscaves there is only one future in the night, and only one in the morning shift for 150 of the night, as far as the nurses are concerned. Or no nurse in residences like Oyon or Amurrio at night. Three or four showers a week, that's what the members of the Babestu Association asked for for for their families; and 87%, which are the working people or the women who work in those homes for the elderly. A year and a half – that's another figure – is the time that lasted one of the most relevant strikes in recent years: the struggle of women workers in Bizkaia residences; and 32 are the days that women workers in Gipuzkoa residences have been on strike today. The facts show that we are face to face with a situation of great power. Even if the head physician had said here that he was doing his work constantly, I shouldn't have done his work, and that has some very serious consequences, as we said the other day, for the people who are in those wards, as well as for their relatives, and of course in the lives of all the professionals who work in those places, because the women who work in those places are all thousands of thousands of people, because they are a perfectly feminised and premeditated work-rooms, and, as is the case in other cases, the vigilance of old people's vigilance in these situations. The sector is underestimated and preglected. And you look where you look, it's a situation that's not acceptable. And I will remember here what a person who has a family member cared for in a residence in Gipuzkoa said: "The residence does not have enough staff, because care for the elderly needs time and dedication, and the workers are suffocated." Asphyxiated, undervalued and struggling, that today we also wanted to remind all those women who today complete those 32 days of strike. Gutxietsiak eta beren lan-indara merke saltzera behartuak. Our position on this subject is known: Our choice is on the side of public services which will allow the sentries to be centred. We believe that professionals in social services are indispensable to a decent condition of service, and we have shown it when we're in government and opposition, and I'd like to remind you, too, that this motion has an agreement which we have here made in a wide agreement, a broad agreement, which this laughter has not fulfilled. I put two questions on the table in the interference of the chief physician of the estate, and asked two questions which a worthy society ought to make: how we want to be looked after, and who will take care of us. It was clear to me that the other day, seeing your answer, and seeing the amendments made by the groups, this is not one of the prerogatives of this government. I would also say that, seeing the reports and all the documentation that I have been able to read these days in relation to the residence decree, it is not an issue that concerns him or her too much. And it's not like I said it. You said in the interpellation that we made him that you were working, that the issue had been extended, but that this new decree was in line, let's say, with the real demands and needs of the older people's collective, in every sense. And I don't know, really, whether this is credible if we read the report issued by the Legal Advisory Office of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, concerning the draft decree, because the truth is that what that report says is not to be quiet at all. And I read it: "It is indicated in the statement of reasons that this decree addresses the need to increase the ratios referred to the templates, as they affect the level of care to be provided". And it follows a few lines later: "We understand that the explanatory statement should be reviewed and, if necessary, refer to the type of staff or professional categories that see their number increased, since, in view of the comparison of the total figures exposed, in appearance, the increase is not given". Screen! But there is more: it is added that "the justification of the initiative should be complemented, outlining not only the need for it, but also the why of its concrete content, taking into account the reality on which it is to be projected". He goes on to say: "Some statements are considered to be made, and it is not later possible to say that these statements are supported and supported by the data provided." Euskal Herria Bildu does not say so, who has already strongly criticized the content of this project in the appearance that we requested from the counselor; it is the legal advice of her own department that warns of the little rigour and the shortcomings that this draft decree presents. Do you think this is acceptable? Do you think this is going to improve the care of the lives of people cared for in those homes, of their families, of those who work in those homes? If there is not sufficient technical justification for this project, if there is not a solid basis for the contents on which it is to be projected, can you explain to me what is behind this draft decree, what are the elements that support or justify, for example, the proposed ratios, or the times of moratorium for the fulfilment of the material and functional conditions of the centers? Well, I'll tell him. I believe that behind this there are market criteria; behind this is the mercantilization of care; neither life, nor the prioritization of care that has been spoken of today in the long and stretched morning, nor that recognition of care to which some representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party have referred. I said it the other day and I repeat it today. It is not for this government to make this a profitable business, but to put people, life, care at the center. The chief physician said that the purpose of a decree is to guarantee royal housing services. I do not believe that this report and the rest of the reports which have been made on the return of the decree will be at all secured, and, in my opinion, dede luego. To which I think it deserves two words of repentance introduced by the EAJ and by the Socialist Party; for when two settlements and three years have passed, you have here eaten your promise with the amendments introduced to you to-day. There is no mention of the functions of inspection which this government possesses, but which forgets. Where is the higher inspection in the presence of all this situation, in the presence of these grave accusations made by the SATSE or such associations? Where? I don't know, a department organic structure, desde luego. Among the accounts which the chief physician of the division here threw out, he remarked more than once, I believe that it is important that one of the most important elements of this decree of the Diarasticus was that of the model of attention which was planned: The more individual, the more integrated, and also the more remote from the physical needs, would suggest other ends. But do you think that's possible for women who are involved? It's been 82 minutes since you've been offered to a resident in the gym. But if the application of this new decree were exact, it would be less. Can that be the way you plan it? This athletic pattern, these development plannings, binculators. Once more, I dare say, if other rations do not plan, at least you wish to take them back to the premeditation of women. Maybe you think women will do free. Which leads me to the second question: who will look after us and watch over us. I think he's talked a long time this morning, and, above all, he's talked about it very much the other day. Arrizabalaga andreak aipatu ditu Gobernu honen planak, aipatu ditu berdintasun-planaren helburuak eta, in fact, talk about social recognition of care as an indispensable condition for the sustainability of life, and a specific axis to transform economies and social organization to guarantee rights. That is reflected and is in the plan, and it is also reflected in a report – by the way, quite deficient – by Emakunde, regarding the gender impact of this decree. But how do you plan to do it? How do you plan to do that? This, ladies and gentlemen, is public responsibility services. They cannot say that this is a problem between women workers and companies. There is also this situation mentioned by Madame Arriguega, in the heart of this people's wages. The negotiation of the surveillance works brings pay-water, and there is no credible position against the pay-rals in the eyes of such situations as these. There's no pay-off top five In this regard, and under the circumstances, in the course of two years, we saw the necessity of planning here on these three specific demands which we have brought into this motion. These demands are very clear, and I dare say that they have been rounded together by Podemos. But it's very clear what we're asking the government for. We ask the government to do what this congressman said in 2017, Let him observe what has been said in 2017, in these terms. Let him observe in the terms mentioned what was promised and committed. We ask, moreover, that, conforming to this new reality, he should update these ratios, and that example which he makes, if true, if it be true, he should place the ratios that concern him. We ask him to do his work and to see these centres, and we ask him to take a step from words to actions, and we ask him to improve the conditions of the women working in social services, a new and special fund of 20 million. What's the point? Because it's necessary to act, and because equality doesn't come out for free, and the first act mentioned by Hadad Leixuri, too, is the need of such steps as this country requires, so that such modifications can be carried forward. And some will say: "Well, we don't see the funds." Well, then, here's your proposition, which is the proposition that goes beyond a dialectical level. The day before yesterday, the representatives of the feminist motion insisted upon the actions and commitments of the organization, that they did not only wish our adhesion, but would have precise commitments and actions. And these are ours. These are ours. But before this you plan to remain at a discursive position, and to satisfy yourselves with that will of an agreement which has no longer any credibility. Euskal Herria Bildu has a clear choice, and it is to raise to the political category the care of people, and, by elevation, the care of those who care for them, and we have demonstrated it on more than one occasion. We clearly see that it is time to start the politics that are really transformive, which demands commitments and demands resources, and demands the exact planning of placing them on the table. That's why we're ready. We ought to know that you, beyond this discursive plane, and beyond those engagements which already have little credibility, are ready to place something on the table to assure us of this equality. But here is one of the principal elements of wages. It is in the hands of the chief physician of the Artolarians, who is placed in the service of public responsibility, you have many here to say, and we shall see what your actions will be.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u57	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, congressmen, chief physician. Today we are in this atrium, in a kind of perverse day of the marmot. It was February 9, 2017, and we came to an update of a June 2016 agreement. We did so in the heat of the strike of the women workers of Bizkaia residences, who at that time had more than 80 days, and which finally lasted 370, within the framework – we have to say – of more than two years of conflict. A strike that ends with some steps, but, I see, not thanks to the Government, but exclusively to its arduous struggle. Today we again discuss this issue in the heat of 8 March. Because yes, I am talking about 8 March and the Bizkaia women's strike and the already 32-day strike of the women in Gipuzkoa, because they are 90% of the staff responsible for care in this type of facility, and it is we who are fighting for conditions worthy of care and dependence. This is a struggle that has a lot of feminist struggle. Today, in the custody area, there are almost 6,000 women strike at Eukadin, Gipuzian egotians, and residents of Biscay. This way. We salute them because they are leading us to the right of guarding all, and to the struggle for equality. In any case, and despite the regrets, there is no need for date, ephemeride or concrete conflict to talk about this, because this must be a central issue. It is essential to value care work, because it is indispensable for life-sustaining. It is not to be expected, there are no excuses, it is not to be left for another day, because we have been waiting a long time. In spite of everything, the institutions of this country, to something else. A Basque government that sells the holder that they will fix the ratios to update them on at least three occasions. But, beyond the headlines, three years behind the commitments made to this house by the parties themselves that support the government. I do not say how many years have gone by with the commitment to ensure quality public services for citizens. On the other hand, outlaws who sell programs with fantastic names: Zainduz, Statute of the Caregiver, "We care to take care of ourselves"..., but who, working better or worse, open the door to privatize care and market them, when they sell especially bets like Mr. Rementeria, to pay EPSV to the caregiver, so that they co-pay. Measures that involve, in the moment of truth, more precariousness, more inequality between women and men and less quality in law services. Immobilism and empty headlines. Immobilism which, in addition to being serious, has consequences. In particular, the non-updating of ratios, in addition to the consequent overload of women in this job, has other consequences. One example: 2017, Uribe, Las Magnolias, Meñakabarrena, 124 people affected. 2018, Portugalete, Elguezabal center, 11 people affected. 2018, Barakaldo-Sestao, Sanitas residence, 39 people affected. Gallarta, 16 people. Portugalete, Aspaldiko residence, 28 people. Mungia, residence Etxe Alaia, 10 people. Murgia, Gorbea residence, 15 people. 243 elderly people who have been affected by the disease in the residences of Euskadi. 243 people who have become infected, depending on the causes that attend to the appearance of a disease such as sarna, whether by sharing mattresses or bed linen or because it is not changed regularly. Irresponsibility or disdain on the part of the workers? Of course not. Overburden of your work? Of course I do. Desperate? Absolutely. In any case, we are clear from Elkarrekin that it is impossible to properly meet the support for daily life with 0.29 workers for grades two and three of dependency, or with a 0.006 medical staff for grades one and two. Anyway. It is not fair and not even feasible for a person to have to change the diaper to 25 adults, or have seven minutes to clean or shower up to three times a week for a dependent person. It's impossible. And what is impossible should not be promoted by a public administration. There was a strike that lasted more than a year. Today there are 5,000 women workers in Gipuzkoa in an identical context. Casualty? I doubt it. Right now, 26 days of strike also in the home help sector in Bizkaia. My colleague Edurne García has already explained more than just the open conflicts that depend directly on the competences of the public institutions of this country. Casualty? I insist, I don't think so. In our opinion, lack of will, and, if I'm in a hurry, well, I'm going to leave it because I don't want to be disrespectful, but it's terrible that in March 2019 we continue with a 1998 decree – more than 20 years ago, a decree that, no matter how much you want, no matter how much you stretch, is impossible to meet the needs of 20 years later. It is true that the original regulation was supplemented by amendments in 2005 and 2006 and was then undoubtedly affected by the regulation of the Basque system of social services. But the mummy And we have a problem, and a serious one, because, because of many care strategies for caregivers, if you don't take into account all caregivers who work in all areas, we're not solving it. Considering the increase in the life expectancy of the people we live here, because the increase in age implies more quality of life, more time to exercise rights and live well, from Elkarrekin We are concerned and believe that public institutions should address and improve attention to a progressive ageing of the population for which there is no coherence, no alternatives, no solutions and we continue with the same tools of 20 years ago. We are concerned and concerned about the part that affects us that caregivers are not in the centre and continue to be relegated to a private responsibility, because that is the basis of the problem that we have so that the working conditions of these women are not dignified. And finally, we are concerned, and we believe that you should also be more and better occupied, by the fact that in this area you are not seeing or highlighting the weight that care can have in the necessary transformation of a labour market that puts lives at the centre, not the benefits of others: lives. We are faced with an obvious precariousness of working conditions and, in addition, we are letting go of the opportunity of a transformative, sustainable and very, very important employment niche for all. That is why we believe that it is essential to value the work of those who care, but also to value the work of those who need care, and to draw attention and focus on those who are not putting the political will to make such care a responsibility of the whole of this society and, of course, a fundamental tool of public policy. All this must be done as a decisive and useful commitment to care, reconciliation, a struggle for equality and to stop hiding fundamental elements for the maintenance of life in the private sphere. That is why we consider it important to support the proposal presented to us today by EH Bildu, adding fundamental aspects, such as a time limit for monitoring – because, I am sorry, but we do not trust – a gender impact report – because, again, I am sorry, but the current report is an absolute pointless one – an accessibility report – because, of course, I do not trust that the high inspection will do its job, because in response to you the high inspection is not too much. Together, according to the Podemos team, life must be placed in the centre, as the feminist movement proposes. To do this, it is necessary to give priority to old people's care. And that is why, among other things, we thank EH Bildu for having negotiated our amendments, and we reject from the point of view those of the Government, but, look, not because we are the no for the no, which is the classic speech that you bring to this rostrum, but because it is an absolute shame that even today you are not able to accept an agreement that we all put on the table, that we were all part of two years ago and that today is a failure, a failure that means not respecting the word, that is the basis of the work that citizens have entrusted to us in this House. For Elkarrekin Podemos – and I finish already – it is essential to agree with what is being proposed from the feminist movement, to put life in the center, and this, without a doubt, is to understand that taking care of all the people who need it is the least and is the right thing. It's not worth going on like a donkey with ears, because, despite the great headlines and that you don't like anyone telling you that you're not doing everything right, there's a lot, a lot of work. To be done. And today they have tabled an amendment –Excuse me – who talks about something else, not about the issue we're here to discuss. We are left with the fact that this Government, which is the motto of the common good, forgets to value the lives of all, the common thing, because we have all, at some point, been, will be or are dependent people. The effects of the faults of the government are supported by men of age, and by women, and by those who work in their houses, and by those who look after them in their own houses. We have a clear example in our hands that the policy of equality is not a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Basque Popular. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning again. We have spoken of the sisters at the first point, and on this third point, though particularly to speak of certain decrees, it is required again from the Eukko, or, at least, of the proposition proposed by the meeting of EH, that is to say, of the penditentiary decrees, and that we agree with this request, as has been said here, that we have obtained this extensive agreement, at the beginning of this legislation, at the beginning of February, and before the precedent was over, a treaty concerning this matter. Here, clearly and clearly, we must repeat that governments have not fulfilled their duties, and that when we speak of care or sisters, this subject is not the prerogative of this government, and we must say, clearly and distinctly, that it is very strange. We are again talking about care on the third item on the agenda of this plenary. We, from the People's Group, wanted to highlight the social value of care with express recognition. We also need to talk about the role that women play in care, because the role of caregiver has a woman's face, and in this regard, when dealing with the previous debate, we have formulated an amendment with a specific content: that a specific report and an analysis be made of the model of care, of care for dependent persons, which exists in Basquedi, with an assessment of the measures put in place, especially those of conciliation, bearing in mind that we are talking about a feminized sector, and also that, in the future, concrete proposals are being made to continue to focus on this area of conciliation, with a timetable and with a specific budget. That point was accepted, and that is why we practically signed this agreement in its entirety. Now, let us clarify more what is the issue of care for dependent people, because we are talking, I was talking or referring in my first intervention to what care can be provided in the family environment or outside the family environment – that is obviously a decision that is taken by the family – and, when it is decided to care for dependent people outside the family environment, one of the options, of course, are residential centers, in their various and multiple modalities. As I said, this issue is not new; this issue has already been dealt with in this Basque Parliament, as Mrs Kortajarena and Mrs Guanche have pointed out here, which have preceded me in the use of the floor. In addition, we have had concrete appearances; the counsellor has also been asked to explain the draft of the decree of the residential centers, which is what we are dealing with, and, as I said, it is not a new issue, because, already in two previous pronouncements, two years ago, in 2017, and before the end of the previous legislature, in 2016, we also asked this government, we urged this government to update the decrees that have to do with the development of the Law of Social Services, and in the last pronouncement, a concrete reference to the decree of residential centers. That is why I have to say once again that this government of people, the government of the common good, as has also been said here, in some matters which concern people and which affect them very directly, and, above all, in a society which has a structural problem, with a low birth rate, in an increasingly ageing society, one of the oldest societies in our environment, it would have been desirable for this issue to have been placed – this government – as one of its priorities on the political agenda. But we have to say that, after more than two years of the legislature, this has not been the case, and that a debate on this issue has again had to be brought to this Parliament. With regard to all that has to do with the services and services regulated in the service portfolio, which are covered by the decree itself that was adopted in 2015, which, in turn, comes from the Social Services Act, of which 10 years have passed this year, we have to say also and we have to give again an ear ring to the Basque Government because the development of the Social Services Act of 2008 – which was completed 10 years in December, this past December –..., we have to give this government another ear ring, to the Basque Government, because development has undoubtedly been slow, has been scarce and, of course, leaves much to be desired, with some very weak regulations. That is why we thought it appropriate, too, when we tabled an amendment to this point, to get down to the concrete ground. Beyond, obviously, that there were many points of coincidence with the proposing group, we wanted to go a little further, and, apart from talking about updating the decrees, behar will say dekretuak eguneratzea, behar den weretzuna emateko gai honetan, eta, beraziki, stop egokia emateko. As I said, the purpose of the update, to update the decrees we are talking about, which regulate social benefits and services, is to provide an adequate response to social needs and adequate care, in accordance with the agreements reached in this Parliament. But we asked that, in the drafting of this decree – which is why I pointed out that we wanted to go down more, to be more concrete – not only quality care should be guaranteed, but also that this regulation should take into account the typology, nature and needs of the different centres when providing the different services. We have been meeting with many residential centers that provide these services, and some showed us their enormous concern about how the regulation of all these issues and the provision of these services by the decree of residential centers would finally remain. And, therefore, I believe that, also, in this decree, the nature and typology of all the centres providing this type of services must be adequately addressed. And, on the other hand, we went a little further, because, because of the competence of the social services inspection, which, moreover, was something that the People's Party introduced in one of its amendments to the Social Services Act discussed and adopted in this Parliament in 2008, I say that, according to that forecast, we were absolutely pertinent at this time in drawing up a report before the end of the current session, because we believe that it is a priority, on the situation of the residential centres of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. What are we meeting? There is indeed a compromise amendment. We can agree with some of the points on which the EH Bildu and Podemos Group have agreed, but we believe that we have also missed an opportunity to go a little further along the lines of some of the specific issues that we raised in our amendment and which I have just pointed out. And on the other hand, the amendment by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, the groups that support the Government, because it is undoubtedly once again lame, it is again short, undoubtedly, because we believe that it does not address this issue as it should be addressed by the Basque Government. I believe that the agreement will be difficult, because there has been no approximation, but in any case I do want to point out that we hope that we will not have to bring this debate back to this Parliament, which, as I say, we brought two years ago – we have had numerous appearances with the centres, the residences concerned, explanations from the adviser herself, which have clearly been insufficient – and, above all, that once and for all this Government assumes its responsibility and fulfils the mandates of this House, which are very clear. And, above all, they are very clear as to the regulation of aspects that need to be regulated and that need to be regulated in a certain sense, which is the meaning that benefits all citizens, in this case, so that quality care can be provided and that these services can be provided adequately by the residential centres responsible for providing them. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u60	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u61	Thank you very much, President. On this agenda item we will be discussing the situation of residential centres for the elderly in the Basque Autonomous Community and also, in particular, residential centres in Gipuzkoa, as a result of the strike started in February this year. We discussed at the beginning of this year, in a few days in January in the Basque Parliament, the lights and shadows of the 10 years that have passed since the implementation of Law 12/2008 on Social Services, after two years have elapsed since the adoption of the portfolio decree within the Basque System of Social Services and the validity of the subjective right of access to social services, and we have recently discussed the development of these social services in this very plenary. All parliamentary groups recognize that development has not led to the speed initially foreseen, when Law 12/2008 was passed, and the portfolio decree was adopted late to the scheduled date as well, and that we have a residential centre decree of 1998, with its amendments, which should be replaced by the new decree as soon as possible. However, at the plenary session on 22 February, the Employment and Social Policy Councillor showed that the procedure for drawing up the draft new decree on residential services for the elderly began in May 2017. He appeared on the Committee on Employment and Social Policy to expose it, and we discussed it. In June 2017, the consultation process began, and the project was approved in order of July 28, 2017. And, at present, it already has the explanatory, economic, legal report of the Directorate of Services, and it is currently in the opinion of the Euskadi Legal Advisory Commission, which should issue its report within a maximum of two months. And then we will have to incorporate into the draft the modifications that the COJUA determines and that, in its opinion, we will have to include. It is therefore most likely that we will have such a decree within a short period of three or four months to replace the one currently in force, and these deadlines cannot be reduced. The decree defines the physical and structural issues to be taken into account in the residential centres of older persons, but also the model of comprehensive care, its assessment and continuous improvement of quality based on guarantees of rights. That is why the request made by the proposer group, EH Bildu, will be fulfilled in about three months, and, of course, cannot be fulfilled, as requested by the initial proposal of Elkarrekin Podemos, within a month. It is true that the benefit and social services decrees that were contained in the agreement adopted at the February 2017 plenary session were to be adopted as soon as possible, but it can hardly be implemented within the three-month period that they mark within the compromise amendment that you, the Elkarrekin Podemos group and the EH Bildu group have signed. Nor do we agree with the creation by the Basque Government of a special new fund of 60 million to improve the working conditions of women working in the specific field of care. It is curious: they did not negotiate or support the Budgets, but now both the Elkarrekin Podemos group and the EH Bildu group want special funds to be created, not in a global way to fight for equality or for the elimination of the wage gap, as we talked about in the previous point, no, but at this point they propose the creation of this fund, of 60 million, for care, and to serve to improve working conditions. And in the previous one we proposed that fund to achieve a salary increase of 20%. That is, now, at the initiative of the initiative, what they want us to do is to create funds here and there; they do not support the Budgets, but now we must create funds according to the conflicts that arise at every specific moment, in order to reduce the situations of discrimination in this particular case. And we do not agree with that, because we agree to implement global policies; that is, if you carry out actions and actions aimed at eliminating the wage gap or at combating inequality between men and women, it has to be global for all groups; you can't cut it by initiative, create funds here, create funds there, but those budget lines have to be aimed at fighting globally for the elimination of these inequalities between men and women. On the other hand, I have to say that I am, in this case – on this point – hallucinated by the position adopted by the Group of the European People's Party because, Mrs Garrido, we presented you as a possible compromise amendment, which was your amendment as a whole, without including anything else. And being the copy of your amendment as a whole, you said you weren't signing it. I believe that this is the first time in the history of this Parliament that I see that, coinciding with its amendment to the whole of the compromise amendment, the group that has proposed it is going to go and not to sign it. But, well, you'll know. No, no, read it; it's the same, and he didn't want to sign it. With this, sincerely, it is absolutely unusual and disappointing. But, of course, in view of this situation, we are of course going to support our amendment to the whole that we tabled at the beginning, where we wanted to: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in cooperation and coordination with the rest of the administrations – each, of course, within its fields of competence – to make progress progressively in the adequacy of the services and services provided for in Article 22 of the Social Services Act, concerning the catalogue of services and services, in order to better respond to the needs of the population". On the other hand, the Basque institutions were urged – each from its powers under the Social Services Act – to promote the inspection, evaluation and monitoring of the services they provide. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u62	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u63	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Chief department, congressmans, good noon. We have a discussion about the state of the housing centers for the older members of the Basque Autonomy of the Errol, although there are some problems about care and care, and, as I said at first, we should be able to talk about it here. The Social Services Act was admitted 10 years ago, as we all know. We've talked a lot about the time we've passed, we don't have to develop enough yet. It has been acknowledged that all the stages of development which the law contemplates are not at the moment set to work. Not long ago, we had a chance to participate in certain activities organized by the legislature. The 10th anniversary of the law was the time to balance, and there we published the remaining challenges. It's undisputable that he's not fully developed. It's true, too, that, using his hands, he's on the track of developments, and, as the chief physician told you in two or three months' time, the Dacre of the Mains will be all over the government's tramite and will be strong. It's late? Is he coming later than I'd like? I'm sure you do. We cannot forget that all the transfers of the decree have been effected with great participation, and that the embarrassment of the sector has been important, and that of all the institutions, when some political parties and others were in command, its change was accepted, as you know. And know, we all know how the rights of social issues are organized in this country, and what work it presupposes to be advanced. There is, therefore, very little to be expected of the decree, and we are glad that it has been effected by a great part of it. You've also asked questions and information that are related to this subject, and we're still waiting for some answers because they're within the deadline. So, what's the real purpose of the average? Because the Act of Decree is not sufficiently developed in the Law of Social Services? I don't know if every week we'll discuss matters relating to the development of the Social Services, but it seems to me that in this pretended contest of Podemos and Collect, we're looking forward to presenting ourselves as more social. The Basque Government – and in particular the Department of Employment and Social Policy – is finalizing the processing of the Regulatory Decree for the Residences of Older Persons. As Mrs Artolazabal told you, the adviser, on the day of the inquiry, within about two or three months all internal procedures will be completed and will enter into force. It is important to note the broad participation that it has had, in which the various institutional areas have participated, with competence in this regard. Therefore, if the purpose of the motion is to expedite the adoption of the decree, which we acknowledge is late, the proposer may be calm, because the entry into force of the decree is imminent. Another aspect mentioned in the motion – it is not a proposal for a law – is care in general; it must be placed at the centre of policies, which must produce a paradigm shift, which is a very feminized sector and with precarious working conditions. A speech that fully coincides with that of the feminist movement, as we were able to see last Monday, to which you also mentioned in the Commission on Human Rights, where two representatives of the feminist movement of Euskadi appeared. And that, in turn, has also been dealt with in the first item of today's agenda, in the motion presented by Mrs Arana, in that – we also believe – eternal struggle to prove who is more social and more feminist. We know this sector is feminized, especially the care of women. But we do not share what was said in the enterprise, the protection given to the ELA Union, or what you have mentioned here, and what you have said about Podemos and bundles, because the strike which you said was so long in the Biscaia mansions, that most of the women are the leading man. I think that's what you said in your initiative, or you said it in your interaction, and today Mrs. Guanche said it. And, on the other hand, many things get mixed up in the initiative. The consent of the Decree, and that's where we accept that we're late. It's necessary, it's objective. Due to the feminized sector, there are bad conditions. But do you really think that the jurisdiction of the legislature is the regulating of their relations? I don't think the unions or workers' representatives will agree if we get into it. And finally, it doesn't seem to be very logical to ask for the fund of 60 million euros to improve the conditions of this collective work, on the other hand, because it's not our jurisdiction, and on the other hand, in the budget project. I would like to know where the figure of EUR 60 million comes from; how many people work in this sector; how many of them are women; how the 60 million are intended to be distributed; why not 80, 120 or 300 or 1,000; what are the requirements, the conditions for access to that amount to be put into a fund; and how it will then be managed. We really don't need that funds, and the government has its funds, and they're approved. We will protect our correction, because it is clearer to us, because it demands the execution of the law in conjunction, because with the complication of all the organizations that have jurisdictions, it requires progress and progress to the administration of the euphora. I said we're late for the growth of the law. The purse of social services was accepted with delay, but it is still in force, and we regard it as positive. Although we are slower than we would have liked, we are ready to continue to advance, and in this are the institutions of this country which have jurisdictions in the affairs of society. Always looking forward, solid, responsible, slow, but moving forward step by step.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the answers, Madame of Kottaja, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u65	Thank you. Well, you can talk about everything, but you can't talk about the growth of the Social Services law, and every week you can talk about this matter, Mrs. Arreg. It seems to Mrs. That's the fact that everyone doesn't have their responsibility, and that's what you should be looking at. And of course it's possible to bring him back every week? Yes, we brought him here on a different level, and with ease we had a chance to open a form round it, which, at two times, made him refuse. That's a negative for two times either. Well, we can talk about everything, but apparently we don't. Now we bring this back and you say: "and why do you bring in two or three months to bring back this decree by the head of the Artola generous series?" Do you think it's credible what's happening here right now? This agreement is 2016, and in 2017, February, you are required to comply with it again, in some very particular terms. This is further required in this agreement, that the agents involved should have a procactive attitude in public oppositions. This is the three-third point, and this is how we increase the degree of explanation, so that we do not place it in profile. And you didn't do anything like that. And when they're two and a half years old, you tell me why we're bringing him here now? We bring it with us now that we are very concerned with the situation we see in our hands, and I think it is perfectly lawful to bring all our concerns here, even more when they come with particular propositions. That's what it's meant to be. And why do we plan a fund? Well, in order to go forward, because money is to be put on, and if you think it's not 60, you bring a new proposition. But there's never a proposition. You don't like the formulas that we bring to talk about the law of social services, but you, on the contrary, bring no suggestions. And you say: "Recreted because the process has been very dedicated." And if we see all those reports which follow the update of the decree, there is one which corresponds to the procedure, and here is the answer given by this government to the claims and reports which have been made throughout this procedure. And some are received, but sometimes they are generally said: "Esto no sleep incorporos porque no Procede," and it is literally written as follows: "No man se incorpora porque no Procede." "Por qué no successe?" "No se explicata, como no se explica por qué se aperlican esos rapios o por qué se ponos elementos que se recogen ese decreto." I believe that here responsibilities can be requested when no decree has been developed in return for ten years. It seems to me that this is no longer an ostrich; it seems to me that it is a crab doing, it seems to me, to retire. In any case, light isn't new Green anymore. And at the end there is a separation, which is called "to transform society" or "a proposition of making society" or something like that, and he says: "Work and life are at present a tendency to understand as a sphere separated from each other, but when the first object of work is the life of the people, it is time to re-open the schematics. Many of the people of the East have remarked that they work with people, and that their conditions, improved, are much improved by the quality of the lives of the people who look after them." This book has been tried to collect the experiences that the workers of a concrete sector had fought. From this concrete field, however, the whole world may hesitate, and even the working woman may begin to imagine the world that exists, a world that places it in the middle of life, and I will remain with it, with the struggle of all these women. I'm going to stay with a smile of those people who don't need permission from the strike tomorrow or from the other party. Tomorrow, you're going to feminist movement, and I'll advise you: go to these mutations and look for the watch columns, find the banners of the working people in the provinces, and explain the explanations you've given here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Poedemus. Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u67	Thank you, ma'am. I hope to make it as short as possible, Mrs Sánchez and Mrs Arregi. They do not understand what the substance is: that publishing a new decree with the same ratios that do not solve – which is recognized by the legal service of their government itself – does not work, does not solve and we remain frozen as 20 years ago, with the same problems that lead these women to have labor conflicts, to precarious care of our elderly people; that is the part that they are not understanding. This is not a competition, not by far, or at least not one of which I am a part. What happens is that you are not used to someone telling you that there are things to look at and do in a different way and sometimes even better than the one you use. They do not see it with the allegations, which, as Mrs Kortajarena rightly said, have rejected the majority. Nor do you see it with the work of the opposition, because you really are obsessed with us coming here to criticize the PNV because it is our raison d'être. No, ma'am. Our raison d'être is to improve the life of the citizenry, with the ways, with the tools and with the ideas we think we have and for which we have voted and for which we are here, and that is part of our work. And, besides, you are not used to having discussions, because because, you like it more or you like it less, in feminism and social rights are where you have a bigger deficit, because there are many other things that you do deal with: big infrastructure, big money... That's what they do, but then what social policies are about, what the women's agenda is, all that's left to them in the background and out of the focus of priority. For us, this is a matter of conception of social policies, and it is that for us, you have the wrong shot, because you are more concerned about saving the ballot than about developing the policies that Euskadi needs, because you are more busy in controlling that no one who should pass but to protect citizens, and that is a problem of policy focus, especially social policies and, of course, feminist policies. And that is what we have come to say that it is important to change, and I do warn you, Mrs Arregi, that some more initiative will fall into the field of social services, and I also believe that you should take care of what you are not doing well, and stop worrying about what we bring or stop bringing, because, if you are doing well, that does not pose any problem. I, of course, am a woman who I am clear that I do not need the permission of the Basque Nationalist Party to bring any initiative to this Parliament, and of course I do not accept either that we should learn from what we can or cannot discuss, with the permission of Mrs Kortajarena, because, of course, that the issue is yours, but we will continue to bring it, if you continue not to comply with the agreements and if you continue not to fulfil your duty, and we will bring all the issues that we consider to bring about in order to improve the life of the citizenry, not to compete with Bildu or to annoy you, but to improve the life of the citizenry, as part of our mission of impulse and control to the government, which is what the opposition does – do not forget it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Basque Popular. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mrs Sánchez, I don't know how you compare it: the text you have sent me may not have been sent to you, in relation to the proposal that Mrs Arregi has made to me in this case, but I understand that it is extended to the Socialist Party of Euskadi, since you are in a coalition government. But, look, you haven't noticed in a fundamental detail. I was talking about bringing the report on the situation of residential centres before the end of this session, before the end of this session, which, as you know, ends at the end of June. And you, in the proposal that you have made to me, that you have sent me, that you have sent me, speak of before the end of 2019; therefore, a substantial difference. But I will tell you more: look, my amendment in its entirety has nothing to do with the amendment in its entirety of the Socialist Party, which says absolutely nothing, but that it substantially lowers the agreements and commitments of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party acquired in this House on this issue and, in particular, the last agreement reached unanimously in this House. It is that you have substantially lowered that agreement. Because, in the proposed amendment, they talk about further progress in the adequacy of the services and services provided for in Article 22. And then he talks about urging the Basque institutions to each, from the competences assigned, promote inspection, evaluation and monitoring. What do you want me to say? It is that you are portraying yourselves, that you have portrayed yourself with this amendment, that you are going backwards, because you have not even had the political honesty or political coherence to translate into an amendment the agreement that we signed unanimously and that you signed two years ago, and that was talking, in particular, about updating the decrees, in relation to the benefits and services of the 2015 benefit portfolio, of that decree and of the Social Services Act itself. And, look, I'm going to tell you more, Mrs Arregi and Mrs Sánchez: if you like the whole amendment tabled by the People's Party so much, which I think you liked at the end, because it makes it clear to you, and I think that, when you see the amendments from the different groups, you have said, "It's just that I think we've been a little bit past, because, of course, two years ago we said one thing and now we're almost turning away from that agreement that was in a very concrete sense." Look, if you like the People's Party amendment so much, approve it. If you're going to vote before yours! If in the next point you have considered very opportune the initiative that my colleague Mari Carmen López de Ocariz is going to defend and you will approve it in its entirety! You support the amendment of the People's Party if it suits you so well, but, look, it is that, in the end, as it is usually said and as it is said, in fact, you will know them, and what is clear is that this government has no commitment to these issues. If you turn away from your own agreements! If the Basque Government is to be brought here to explain a decree, a draft decree, because no one understands it, because it is insufficient! And you, seeing all the criticisms you are receiving with that draft decree, which does not resolve and which does not emphasize the aspects in which a decree of these characteristics has to affect, are looking clearly elsewhere. Look, Mrs Arregi, without a doubt, everyone will have to assume their responsibilities, and this government will have to start assuming their responsibilities after more than two years of legislature, which we have already spent half of the legislature, and that in some matters you are doing nothing. And they will like it more or less, and, as much as it weighs, from this group and from the acronyms I represent, which are those of the People's Party, every time we have a chance, as long as they continue to do nothing, we will tell them that they are doing nothing. And in this particular matter, of course, they leave much to be desired. And, of course, it is once again clear that the slogan of the people's government is a genuine bluff.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u70	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u71	Okay. Mrs Guanche, if there is a government agreement, if there are two parties that have reached a government agreement and form government, obviously, the initiatives that are carried out from the government have nothing to do with those that are carried out when a party is in opposition. It's logical, because they're two different situations. So there is no need for authorization or no authorization, no; it is that the initiatives are different; no one authorizes anyone in that sense; thus, their claim is incorrect. He said that you present another way of doing politics, and let me tell him that I often do not understand his way of doing politics, because we like to try to correct if we have to improve laws, try to fight for those laws to be improved, take measures to eliminate situations like the previous one, for example, from the wage gap... And yet you are getting used to, every time you try to talk, getting close to certain subjects, making a mix or a mix of things that prevent you from making progress in what, perhaps, in that matter, you want to make progress. If we're talking about GIR, I get a minimum wage of 1,200 euros, minimum, and if not, then I don't go in. Let's see, focus on that; let's see if we can move forward on things or on those issues, for example. In the previous one, three quarters of the same thing goes on: we talk about the pay gap, they mix things up, and then they say, "We pose another way of doing politics"; no. We put many real measures on the table that can be used to resolve issues. And, Mrs. Garrido, you said in your first speech, and now in the second, that you didn't want it because you've changed the month in the agreement... It is a copy of your entire amendment. Let's see, in three months it's impossible. It's March. In three months, it's impossible for them to get you out... And with the procedures that are established, because we have already said that in the decree of residences, being the COJUA, you will not be able to take it out, they will not be able to take it out within three months. So, what are we talking about? Let's see if we're a little serious here when we talk about what we're talking about, and you're told a change that's nothing, that's identical; it's your amendment to the whole. And he says, "No, no, I don't sign it; how am I going to sign that." It's yours, it was your entire amendment. But, well, you'll know. You didn't want to sign; you were very clear. You didn't want to sign because you wanted to come up here without any kind of agreement and be able to make your speech. Well, that's fine, that's fine, but don't try to sell what's not. And, on the other hand, in his first speech, he talked about that you always want to make policies to improve care, etc., etc. Look, I remind you that since the Rajoy government, contributions for caregivers were cancelled, for example, and last Friday, on 1 March, in the royal decree that was passed in the Council of Ministers, they have recovered again. And you have tried to make a clamp from the Congress Bureau of Deputies to paralyze a lot of social laws that you didn't want to go ahead, clamp that you have done with Citizens to prevent laws that you had or that you were going to have a broad agreement from coming out. And now what bothers you is that, by royal decree, you are taking out last Friday and going out next Friday those measures that you have wanted to paralyze through that clamp. But what we want to show is that there is another way of doing politics and getting back on Fridays the rights that you made the citizens lose every Friday when I ruled Mariano Rajoy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u72	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u73	Yes, thank you again, Mrs. President. Y volvindo del Congreso de los Diputados, Parlamento Vasco, Mrs. Well, I didn't say... I agree that we can discuss it, and that's what we're here for. I didn't mean to interrupt, and we're used to arguing, Mrs. Guanche, Thursdays, almost. So that wasn't the question. It is true, however, that a motion had been announced about a decree, about a very particular thing, and that the chief physician had said that it was at the gates to admit it. So we didn't understand why we brought him here. At that particular moment, knowing... I know that with all right we can bring forward the initiative and discuss it, and all the Rhodino around the first point. And I said, and I've confessed, and I know that we're late, it's not exactly the way we were supposed to do it. I agree, and we have confessed it over and over, and it is indisputable that at my first appearance I have said so also. Gero, esaten zenuten, the theme of the political category of care and caregivers. Ados gaude horrekin, eta horren inguruan eztabaidatu dugu lehenengo puntuan, eta adostasun zabal batz onartu da. And then, around the bottom, I told you yesterday, when we talked about a middle course, we couldn't see the essentials, and I've said first in my involvement. I have made it clear, and you know very well how money and priority are marked: the most important equipment is the budget. And that's where you shut the door, too. So, to beat the others, or to say, to accuse them, that we always close the doors, there was a possibility that you had, or needed, to accept the funds, and to give you a step. Because you think this government doesn't do anything, I'm sorry, but that's not how it works. Eta, Guanche andrea, exacten zenuen hitzetatik ekintzettara pastu behar genuela, diskurtsoetatik haratago joan behar dugula eta, which we are not used to discussing. I have already told you that we are very used to discussing; we do it every Thursday, and we are fully prepared to continue to do so. But, look, today you're talking to me about feminism, today... [[Show a paper]] Is this the contribution they have made to feminism related to March 8th? Is this your chief of staff? I am very sorry, Mrs Guanche; this is certainly not credible, and all your speech remains, therefore, on the floor. That's all. Thank you. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Please be quiet. Please be quiet. Please. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with the middle-point correction that Podemos and EH Teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 28; the opponents are 45; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u75	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 8; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0; the abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u76	So it's not accepted to the full correction of the Basque Potion Group. And in conclusion, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists and the Eubertarian patriots in full-signed correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 37; opponents 36; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u77	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, Maria del Carmen lópez de Ocariz López de Munininka, a member of the Populative Groups, present at the admission of a law plan on tolerable motion. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, who is the representative of the Potion of the Basque Team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u78	Thank you, Madam President, Madam Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. I present this motion as a result of the question that we raised on 22 February last to the Counsellor, Mrs Tapia, concerning the commitment that the Department of Economic Development and Infrastructure had made with the legislative timetable for this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u79	Please. Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u80	A legislative commitment that committed this department to bringing the Sustainable Mobility Act to this House in the fourth quarter of 2018. The delay is obvious. She acknowledged this, and it is a significant delay, because the procedure for initiating this project coincides precisely with the dates on which the deadline for the Government's undertaking to refer this project to this House expires. We understand that this law is important, because it is necessary to provide this community with an integral mobility in which the different modes of transport intervene, to meet the territorial reality, the needs of the users, and that we can create a more efficient, sustainable, competitive system; and, for this reason, it is necessary to plan the necessary infrastructures, interconnections and –very important, very important – funding. We also take into account the commitment to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, where we commit ourselves to the sustainable development of cities and territories, social, environmental and economic development, and to this must also make a very important contribution to public transport. Actually, we don't start from scratch. We have tools that we have been providing; among others, the Basque Climate Change Strategy, the Strategic Road Safety Plan, the Sustainable Transport Master Plan or the Euskadi Energy Strategy, among others. All of these include actions that should be reflected in this Sustainable Mobility Act. In addition, we have the mobility plans of the cities and territories, which will have to be evaluated, make a diagnosis of each of the situations, and evaluate the measures and commitments they can take. This requires a deep involvement of the municipalities and parliaments. That is why, in our initiative, we call for this coordination with the new teams emerging from the polls in May. In addition, from the People's Group, we believe that we must assess the impacts that the decisions we intend to make will have in the sectors mainly involved: in industry, in employment, in users... The 2030 Agenda expressly states this: moving forward yes, but leaving no one in the gutter. And we are not doing that, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a law in which administrations must commit themselves to transforming the public transport system into a more sustainable one. And all this has a cross-cutting implication in many sectors. Therefore, this prioritization of public transport to which this law would lead us, reducing the use of fossil fuels, must have an important assessment of the effects that this could have on different industrial sectors and, as I said, also on employment. Incorporating railway networks, moreover, implies this law, because we are betting on intermodality in the stations, the connection between train, metro, tram or bicycle, and the improvement of the transport of goods, the new multimodal platforms, taking into account the need to transform traditional transport into more sustainable ones. The problem is that the investments that were planned for the high-speed train by underground stations and entrances to the cities are stopped. Indeed, this law also needs a funding accompaniment. So far, we haven't seen a single document. We have seen a rather opaque text on commitments. It is a declaration of intent, but, frankly, it lacks an implication, both from the administrations and from the Government itself and other government departments. We understand that, in this period from now to the end of the year, which we propose as a date to bring this law to the House, this is being fed by all those elements that make it operational, because this law, among other things, has to be operational, and that all those measures of sustainable mobility can be developed harmoniously in all the territories and, as I said, without leaving anyone at the stand. We have tabled this motion, in which we urged the Government, first, to use all the tools in its hand to activate as soon as possible the measures that were already planned to advance the high-speed train in the Basque Country, in the Basque Autonomous Community, and I refer to the underground in Vitoria and Bilbao, the advance of the TAV network, and therefore I think that is essential. Otherwise, this project doesn't make sense. On the other hand, we say that the decisions in the advance of this preliminary draft law have to count on the approval of the new corporations that come out of the elections, because, in fact, it is up to them to bring their vision. And, thirdly, what we urge is that this bill arrive in this House before the end of 2019, so that it can be dealt with in sufficient time. To this day, we do not know any other document than the one that arrived in this House on 22 January, in which, frankly, we have an advance, but of an inconcrete text, and let us hope that all this will come to date and, as we ask in the motion we put forward, by the end of 2019. Groups that support the government? They have not tabled an amendment. They are apparently going to support the motion we put forward. Since EH Bildu, they have not tabled an amendment either. Well, they'll tell us what their position on this motion is going to be. In the whole amendment tabled by the Podemos group, rather it makes a basic statement of those things that the bill should have. In the progress or annex that the Government accompanies to the order of beginning of this process, among the objectives of the normative draft that is intended to elaborate, therefore, already tells us about the inter-institutional cooperation, subsidiarity, efficiency, the rationality of the public service through the intermodality of the different means of transport. Somehow, we understand that they are collected as basic principles. It is true that it is a text in which all this has not developed in a normative way and is not applicable. Let us hope that, throughout this year, therefore, with the – very important – contribution of both the municipalities and the parliaments, which are really the ones who then have their implementation plans in their spaces, this is nourished by much more adjusted regulations, and, as I said from the beginning – and I also said in the inquiry – this also requires a very important financing plan, because, if not, then we will hardly be able to face all the investments that this law should require. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u82	Thank you, Mrs. President. All members of the legislature, good morning. Well, the People's Party is proposing to us today a motion related to the sustainable mobility bill, and what it proposes to us is that this bill come quickly to Parliament. Our group, without disagreeing with that position, wants it to come well, so to speak, colloquially. It is true, and the People's Group is right to raise this motion, because the government, at the time, in the legislative calendar, established that this bill would arrive in the last half of 2018, and we are already on past dates. But it is also true, and this is what our group basically defends, that the most important thing is not that it comes quickly, but that its contents are adapted to what our society needs today. In this political discussion, then, it is not only when this project of laws will come, but how, above all, it will be useful for this project of laws to-day in the Euskade, in the Basque society, to resist the romances which we have. And these challenges are of no small importance; these challenges are important: how we should develop our public service to be more efficient and more rational, and how intermodity and subsidianity should be established. We have challenges. We have important challenges in the country that this sustainable mobility bill has to face, and these challenges need some tools. And that is why I said at first that this bill not only has to come quickly, but it has to come well; it has to bring legal tools, administrative tools and, above all, financial tools, as Mrs López de Ocariz also said, to get ahead. And those instruments are the ones we need today, and we know that in all the legal projects the funk brings, those instruments don't show. I have to remember now what happened to the Book of the Universal Social Security, how it came and how we accepted it. And so, perhaps, the bill, the proposed energy sustainability law, which came to this Parliament a few months ago, a year ago, how it came and how it came out, could be an example of how a law needs to be amended to respond to the challenges our society faces. With regard to the motion itself, I have to say that precisely because we have read the preliminary draft law, which the Government has already made public, we understand that, today, the content of that draft law does not in any way correspond to those minimum contents that we proposed in our amendment to the whole; hence, even if we accept the need for it to arrive in time, we also believe it to be important that it arrive in shape. We are not going to oppose the initiative of the Group of the European People's Party, but our vote will, in principle, be abstaining. If I want to say one thing, it is that it draws my attention to the fact that, in an initiative related to the sustainable mobility bill, reference has been made to the high-speed train. I would say that talking about sustainable mobility and the high-speed train is an oxymoron; if there is an absolutely unsustainable means of transport from a social, economic and environmental point of view, that is the high-speed train. From a social point of view, public transport, sustainable mobility, serves a majority of society; the high-speed train serves a privileged minority. Public transport may not be financially sustainable by itself, but it does not generate an insurmountable debt in society. The high-speed train is not only insurmountable financially, but, today, it is taking the resources that rail transport needs, let us say conventionally, to finance its snowball, its insurmountable deficit, which, today, we are paying all the Basques, the Spanish and the Europeans. Therefore, I will ask the proposing group to allow us to vote for points, because we understand that, today, we cannot support a first point of its initiative related to speeding up the timetables of the high-speed train, and we will therefore ask for a point vote to make it possible to abstain from the rest of the points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u83	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing to groups that don't run, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u84	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. I shall make it very short, for in the heart, we are favorable to the motive which the Poptular party has presented, not only to the text, but also to its ends. I believe that Mrs López de Ocariz has made a story that I can share perfectly, with some nuance on some specific political issue, but that I believe that in the sense of the motion itself, in the objectives and in what is all about not only the law of sustainable mobility, but also in the question of high-speed train, we share absolutely everything. Of course, the Socialist parliamentary group understands that this issue, the law on sustainable mobility, is a very necessary law. In fact, we, in the time of the lehendakari Patxi López, already began the drafting of what was to be a law of sustainable mobility, which finally could not be, could not get forward. It is no less true that we, from the Government right now, are also working side by side, from the responsibility we have in the three historical territories, since in the three we manage the Department of Mobility, and we are committed to the elaboration of this law. A law that – I share with you, Mrs López de Ocariz –, in addition to being important, gives tremendously important questions in terms of territorial cohesion, accessibility, sustainability, and which, in addition, has to incorporate specific issues that are fundamental to us, and I say this from the knowledge of the management that our colleagues are doing. Because, of course, it is not only a question of articulating the objectives or points to be incorporated in the drafting of the mobility plans of the different municipalities or of the different territories, but here there is a truncated question of knowing, of putting on the table, of what the financing model is going to be, what the transport model is going to be, and of addressing all the transport models that we currently have on the table, not only cable transport, not only rail transport, but also road transport, and not only and exclusively all that concerns public transport, but we also have to deal with everything that concerns freight transport, private transport and all the infrastructure that has to entail having a sustainable mobility law and betting on a clear objective, that is to have territorial cohesion and transport that is the cheapest, the most sustainable, the most efficient and the least polluting possible. So, we're on it. We have analysed the text of the preliminary draft that has been sent to us from the Government. Undoubtedly, the Euskadi Transport Authority is also being analysed, and I am aware that representatives to that Authority will incorporate issues that I have just mentioned and that are not in the original text. He also shared that vision with us the counselor herself in a first contact we had. It is a first draft, it is a preliminary draft, it is everyone's work, gure elkarlana izan behar da, that we can and will be able to enrich the text as much as possible, that we can incorporate issues, elements that we all understand are key, that are fundamental, and that will certainly improve that text. I think we have a precious time ahead so that we can enrich that text, make the relevant contributions in this House, debate it and that Euskadi has a law of sustainable mobility that meets expectations, which, I think, we share all the groups represented in this House. As far as the high-speed train is concerned, of course, our commitment is clear. We bet, we have always bet, at all times, on the high-speed train, and, of course, the commitment – as the Minister of Development, Mr Ábalos, has announced in his various visits to Euskadi – is a priority for the Government of Spain, it is a priority for the Basque Socialists and the Spanish Socialists, and, as far as possible, we will, of course, adjust the State's general budgets to deal with everything pending in relation to these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u85	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Ugarte, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u86	Yes, good morning, everyone. I'll do it very fast, too, but for reasons contrary to the Axez. For, on the one hand, as Mr. Becerra has said, it seems to me that, as regards the first point, a law project in a tolerable motion has nothing to do with the first point, not technically, and even less politically, because we do not think that the train which we have always said is a bearable train, because it does not appear to us to be a model, either economically, or socially, and so on, and so on. We have talked here often, and therefore I will not spend more time. But it seems curious to me that he should come and ask for a legal project about the bearable motion, and that the first point is to demand the introductions of Spain around the high train, and to plan an enterprise about it, because he has nothing to do with what is here to be done. This one, and, secondly, seems to me to be a serious word of law. Maybe I've got a professional deformation, I have a professional deformation, and I'm conscious that I like to bring the laws to this Chamber. In this legislation, this would be a bill of the eleventh law, and I have read the bill before the law, and if I have anything very clear, this is not a prevarication of a law. Then it seems very paradoxical to me to demand a legislative action, which should not, in some measure, be the legislative. Does EAE need a law about tolerable motion? Maybe he should. Is this a law of tolerable mobiles? No way. No way. And so I don't think we should justify it. Why is it so difficult to make a legal project about patient mobiles? For all the definitions of the laws, and I have here made of Wikipedia, by curiosity, a quick examination from Wikipedia, what he puts about a law, and says: "La ley es una whoma tuta por una selfrida plublica que a todos order, prohíbe o permit, y a la cual todos debecia." There is no one to obey this project of laws, not the forum-intentions, the councils, the society, the private individuals, or the corporations... I mean, this law has no consistent faculty. This law does not have a plan to say, "This is what you have to do. The first article says that this is what is to be done; the second article, the third, the fourth, if you do not observe it, will come to you, and this will happen to you." That's a law. Something which ought to be a category of law must say that. And he'll also tell you what he'll do, what sanctification he'll make, and how he'll finance himself. It is possible to regulate the finances by decrees or by rules of another kind. Baina legeak berak eduki bat eduki behar du. Bestela, ari gara hitz egiten of a declaration of intentions, or of a political plan, or of a master plan, or of a strategy, or of an interinstitutional agreement... The content, then, which is here received, being a content above nothingness, must be carried forward by an interinctical agreement or political agreement. For, to begin with, we have here a problem of competition, a problem of intervention. When we have made a proposal of the law against corruption, some institutions, as many parties will, are soon brought out, in order to prevent this rule or that law, to prevent it, to make difficulties, to set up the commission of the arbitrators, in order to appeal to the arbitrators, which is precisely because of a case of competition. And what is planned here is that the competition of other institutions or the manual will suddenly be eaten out of the Autorida del Transporte de Euskata, which has scarcely any competition except to make regular plans, if it is not merely to make proposals, and if it is not merely co-ordination. And it is only the work of coordination that a institution can have the least faculty of co-ordination. In the hierarchy of affairs, he is the least able. And now, suddenly, it is given power to make preceptive report, to the command of the conveyances of the aldudias or of the historical lands, and to the beauties of the formulae preceptives to which they are to be carried. That's why I give you an example. To give another example of the tariff union. That's a certain amount of strength in that project. It's been a long time since the Basque Country has proclaimed the tariff. He proclaims a long time ago, and, yes, he says, I mean, it's a problem for being truly passive mobiles to be efficient, and I think that we are in this Chamber to accept laws that will be effective, and not to act merely for political purposes, which are necessary for political agreements. And in this field, preciamente preabulo. The only concrete initiative which this project has, therefore, is confined to the founders, to the founders. O sea So what I don't understand is how you're trying to justify or how you're trying to protect the government. This is not a serious legal project. This can't be accepted on its own. We can't do this to the law station. That's why we're going to vote for the first point, of course, because we're against all the initiatives around a high-speed train, and because our position is quite clear, and we, like Mr. Becerra, are going to demand a vote on the spot because we're going to be on the other side. For it is true to be opposed to the second is very ugly. We also want the forum to be shared, we also want the councils to join, but not because we want them to participate, and they must share, because we are taking part in their beauty if this bill went forward. We're getting into their hands. And as for this, the legal frame of the present day does not allow us to do so. And I believe that this law will have great difficulties in it, considering the present map of right, in order to succeed. So you'll have our abscession on the other two points.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Ugarte. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u88	The chief physician, the chief physician, all the members of the legislature, all the good noontides. Look, when the proposal or the motion that comes is complex, it has edges, so you take advantage of all the time that the Rules of Procedure allow you to explain yourself, because sometimes it is complex. When a simple, simple and forceful motion like this comes, then it is not necessary to devote much time to it. Even if we can generate skirmishes around, he doesn't really have them. I warn you that our parliamentary group is going to vote on the first proposal that yes and the other two that too, but because it is very simple. On the Basque Y, we ask the Basque Government to work as hard as possible so that the central government can speed up the completion of the Basque Y, if we have been doing so all the Lord's life, with all the possible governments that could have been in Madrid! Moreover, we have done so since the democratic conviction that, whenever this issue has been discussed in the Basque Parliament, a majority has always emerged that has relied on this infrastructure. Then it's people's. It's from the people, it's from the Basque people, it's from the Basque Parliament. That's why we do it. With regard to the other two, which have to do with the law of sustainable mobility, so too. First, let the law be negotiated with the future corporations coming out of the future municipal elections, of course; the Government has already worked with the current outside corporations and has already agreed to it. We are confident that, with the results of the forthcoming municipal elections, the new consensus that needs to be achieved will be very quickly. And, with regard to the last point, which is where it is done in 10 months, when it is a proposal for a law that already has the order of commencement in its processing as a preliminary draft, which has already been sent to us, they already know the first preliminary draft and that it is being processed internally in the Government and with all the public presentation that needs to be made, therefore, we understand that 10 months is more than reasonable time for that preliminary draft to arrive. Of course, in what I am not going to enter and I am not going to waste any more time is in generating edges where there were none, and discussing the contents that the law has to have is done by Parliament when the bill comes to it. When he arrives, a paper is created, amendments are made, negotiations are negotiated... There's to be done, there's to be said what people think they have. And we're supposed to agree and decide among all of us what surely people want. At least that is what Parliament wants. And, as I think there is no need to devote more time to an issue that – I insist – is clear, concise and determined, we are going to vote yes to the first, yes to the second and also to the third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u89	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. At the turn of the answers, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Briefly, if I may, to thank the groups for their support of the initiative. And, Mrs Ugarte, you have given me a lot of arguments to oppose some of your group's initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u91	Thank you. Mr. Becerra, together Podemos, no. Don't touch them. Not even Ugarte... Now that the discussion is over, we'll go to the vote. Madame Lopez de Ocarariz's motive. We vote for the first point and the other two. So we vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 71; the votes are 72; the supporters 45; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u92	So the first point is to be accepted. Next, we'll vote for points two and three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u93	So, they've been accepted, 2nd and 3. even points. Five point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the parliamentary members of the "Unai Uruzuno Goldsti, the Book of the Union, concerning the Calendar of Transfusions. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Urruzuno, it's your word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u94	Yes, good noon to all. I'll try to be short, too. For the fifth or sixth period is already at this point in a very short period of time. Mr. Egibar told me this morning that we came in the same way, and it's true, we come in the same way, but I'd say to the Socialist Party in that sense, and to EAJ, that if they did anything different, we might perhaps have a chance to say something different, and it's not so. Why? Now because this subject of differences remains in this respect. Yet there are always accidents, which give occasion to make different discourses, and at the present moment this ultra competition in the Spanish State (whoever it may be, who is of the right hand, who is more Spanish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u95	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u96	...nor den ultragoa), norgehiagoka zentzugabe horrek, bada, ore de la gutxi ekarri digu, adibidez, Alderdi Popularraren mozio bat Senatuan, éta beraiek ere hala esaten zuten, "in a way honoring the heroes of the Plaza de Colon". Eta, guretzat, mozio hori, drinking horretan, skandalu bat izan da, has been a scandal, has been a dislate, to use a word that often uses the People's Party in this House. But at the same time as it has been a disillusionment and a scandal, our colleague in the Senate Jon Iñarritu also referred to it as a clarifying, clarifying initiative in the sense that the exceptionality of this initiative did not come so much into its content, which is what he proposed only to continue doing – today, many initiatives in this Parliament are also "encouraged the Government to continue doing, as up to now" – because the motion of the People's Party also encouraged the successive governments of the Spanish State to continue doing what they have been doing during these 40 years, to fail to comply with the Statute or not to transfer the competences that are pending. I would like to recall that the question that led to this motion was also motivated by an arbitrary, unilateral decision by the Government of Pedro Sánchez not to include in the timetable of work referred to the Basque Government the competence of social security. Then, the exceptionality or the strikingness of the Popular Party initiative did not come in content, but came because it wanted to give some ideological coverage, some legitimacy to something that is, in our view, unconstitutional. And we are not going to stop here now to defend the Spanish Constitution – in fact, you know that recently we passed a PNL here rejecting the Spanish Constitution – but it urged the parties to do something unconstitutional. It gave legitimacy, wanted to give legitimacy, wanted to give ideological coverage to what they have been doing for 40 years. Mr Pérez Royo, a professor in Constitutional Law – if I am not mistaken – in his self-government speech, said that after the Constitutional Court ruling 31/2010, which invalidated the Statute of Catalonia, he said that since that ruling Spain no longer had a Constitution, that the only thing left to Spain was a Constitutional Court. For, in our view, with the motion of the People's Party, and now, does the People's Party even intend to stand above the Constitutional Court? Do you stand above the Constitutional Court and file, after 40 years, give final file to this 40-year period in which they are said to be transferred but not transferred? To give folder and officiality, once and for all, to involution and recentralization; to say, once and for all, "It is enough, it is over what was given, it is over what was given". Therefore, the exceptionality of the Popular Party motion was that. They tell us that we have to respect the laws, that we have to comply with the Constitution, but it seems that at the same time they reserve the right or some kind of patent of course in order not to comply as they please them or not, and we say, guk esaten dugu: baldin eta Espaniak, Espainiako legera menperatu nahi gaituztenok, ikusten baldin badugu beraiek beraien legeak ez daukatela zertan erespetatu, zer geratzen zaigu? Do you want zaregen zaigu? What's left of the Basques and the Basques? The Catalans and the Catalans, what is left of this situation? With what legitimacy does the defendants sit on the bench to the leaders of the trial I quote these two cases because I think they are interesting in addressing this issue. They are paradigmatic when it comes to saying that the Spanish State is irreformable, irreformable. We must change the structures, we must change the power relationship, we must change that perverse relationship that exists today between Euskal Herria, the Basque Autonomous Community, in this case, and the Spanish State. That relationship has to be changed. That perverse relationship needs a clear, firm answer, first from Parliament, second from the Basque Government, and we must stop reading or trying to sell us the bike that everything is going well, that progresses. And there is no progress, Mr Erkoreka, this is not progressing, and in order for Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa to have recognized the competence of Social Security, it is necessary, it is essential that the relationship between the Spanish State and the Basque Autonomous Community be changed at this time. That is, without turning over, there won't be any Social Security, and we think here, what's happened, what's happened, what's happened... for this is not the question of P.P. I have mentioned the motion of P.P., but I say also that P.P. In the course of 40 years, the Social Party and the Socialist Party have done what the Party has done, and what they've done demands that the state should not be preserved. Then Peter Sánchez, too, has a right to Social Security in the street, that he has not put himself in the calendar of work, is but an example of it. We believe in such situations, really, really... I don't know how he said, "celebramos o vacramos posivament," something like that, when he was given a five-mile autotrack, I don't know how many years after he'd been moved. We believe that, apart from the inferiority complexes, we must leave them alone, and say that readings, which are used to deceive people in some way, "Yes, this time they seem to have a sort of will, but while everything is still, this chamber, and even the whole of it, with more firmness and firmness, must, in spite of itself, be charged with a demand for the sake of nothing, for the sake of it, for the sake of it, for the sake of it, for the sake of Madrippet. That's part of what we signed in self-interest. We don't know what you're up to now, we don't know, but we really say that the development of the state and the development of the thing must come without any further agreement. We have to give it. It's a technical operation. He transfers in exchange for nothing. It has to be transferred in exchange for nothing, in exchange for nothing. Therefore, in our motive, this is what we demand: first, Social Security, to get into the work calendar as soon as possible, and secondly, to execute it; but what we ask at the first point is that such attitudes, unacceptable in the Spanish Government are to be denounced, and that the Spanish Government has to be found in Exodus, PP, we must make it clear to him for the next time that he is here. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u97	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u98	Thank you, ma'am. I don't know what the discussion is today, I'm not clear. For I came here to talk about Social Security, as we did three months ago, with an agreement on the 12th of December, and the same half-way we made today, as he said, to enter into the calendar the transfer of Social Security, and it is true, we were glad at least that the Council Misty took a step forward. It is true, today, that this work has been left behind, because the Government has not obtained it by the Spanish Government. But I'm here today to discuss the transfer of Social Security because I think it's either there or there's the discussion today. We can repeat how many times there has been a problem with the Mercade of transfers I think, then, that there is an agreement, and a clear one, and that we have several times, in this law, tried the motives or the PNLs about it. And, as has been said, we tried on the 12th of December, with a majority in this parliament, a motive, or a PNL which we now require: Let him place himself in the calendar, as our state demands, the transfer of Social Security. So, we do reaffirm ourselves once again today, we say yes to the possibility of managing more competencies by deepening our self-government, but we do also say that more important than what we manage, although we care about having those transfers, is under which political project we want to carry them out. And that is why we are going to work so that these powers are not just accumulations of power, because today, what I have heard from Mr Urruzuno is "we want those transfers", but I have not heard you or how you want to manage them, or how you want to manage them or what political project you want to carry out. Because we are supposed to be talking here today about the economic system of social security, but I have not heard you defend a public pension system, which I understand you are in favour, but I understand that when we want to discuss this we have to give a little bit of substance to the matter. So let us think about how we are going to give substance to these competences and let us do so; let us think about how we are going to deepen self-government to create a real country project; let us build a plural Euskadi in which no one overthinks or feels different, in which equality, social rights, employment and feminism are central pillars. Because, as I was saying, it's not just about demanding the transfer. We believe that it is a priority to defend a system of public social security, universal and sufficient. That is the priority for us, for the system to be public, universal and of quality. And why? Because it is this and only this really the guarantor of a life worthy for the whole of citizenship, for the total of citizenship. And what Euskal Herria Bildu forgets today is that, in the agreement we reached in this very Parliament in December, this was within the agreement, and today it is out of his motion, it is outside his motion, but this was within that agreement approved by a majority in this Parliament: the defence of a public and universal system of pensions and social security. And we are very clear why we want a public system and solidarity of distribution, because it is true that there is a profound ideological debate about this, which is not given alone in Euskadi, which is not given alone in Spain. It is an ideological debate between two types of model in struggle: one based on public distribution systems, such as that which we currently have, undoubtedly, much better and which needs reforms to guarantee higher incomes and raise benefits, compared to another based on a mixed system that keeps pensions and other public coverage at insufficient levels so that they have to be completed with private plans in order to be able to have a decent coverage, something which for us is insolidary and, moreover, unfair. For us this is important, and we have been defending it in this Parliament every time we discuss the social security system; transfers do, but, above all, what model we want. And we understand that it must be addressed and that the approach to the transfer of social security must be given and that it must also be carried out with the utmost rigour, because this affects the only income of tens of thousands of older people and workers in different situations covered by social security. And because, although their transfer is a matter of certain complexity that is not resolved by occurrences, of course, it must not be an excuse not to be addressed, indeed; it must not be an excuse not to be addressed. This debate must necessarily be calm, that is, by responsibility, both of the Basque Government and of the Government of Spain, governs who governs. And, as I said, given the complexity of the transfer of social security, we believe that the institution of the Joint Transfer Commission should be urged to establish a specific timetable for compliance without further delay, 38 years after its adoption, of Article 18.2 and of the fifth transitional provision to the current Statute of Gernika, which is basically what we proposed in the compromise that I understand will be adopted today with the votes of the PNV and PSE and Elkarrekin Podemos. The solution to the problem of the sustainability of social security pensions as a whole does not depend on whether or not the transfer takes place; in no case is it managed here or managed throughout the State. It goes through how it is managed, what model of Social Security we have: one designed to cover all, or one, on the contrary, who wants some, which is to cover in a care way only the minimum. The solution to the problem of pension sustainability is to put aside the precarious model installed in our country's employment, to bet on a model of added value, where existing employment is stable and of quality. And I haven't heard of a job either today. But, well, the most important thing for us is our task, a system of public social foresight, universal and ensuring a life worthy of citizenship. Finally, I would also like to say that for our coalition, self-government must be a tool for managing the collective, the collective, the public and the service of a Basque and egalitarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u99	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Urruzuno, your proposal literally says that "Parliament reaffirms that competences in the field of social security, especially in the transfer of the economic regime from social security, are necessary for the improvement of the living conditions of the citizens of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa". Well, I'll tell him no. Pensioners are to receive the same pension whether or not they are transferred, as set out in the Statute and the Constitution. No, no, Moreover, if you did what you agreed with these gentlemen in the paper, it could seriously harm you, because you know, and we all know, that last year's annual pension deficit in the Basque Country is €3 billion. Therefore, if the system that you are proposing, the Basque system, were to be made, we need 6 billion for pensioners to cover what they are collecting today; no more, the same. And you've forgotten to always tell where the money comes from to pay those pensions. Man, I don't think you're very credible, but welcome to the club to defend the Statute of Autonomy, the Constitution and the enforcement of Constitutional Court rulings. Because, Mr Urruzuno, the People's Party is not above the Constitutional Court. I will read you my amendment. I've come with a lot of papers, because, anyway... Our amendment says today: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and Spain to establish the agreements so that the Basque Autonomous Community takes over the management of the economic system of social security, respecting the principle of solidarity and the unitary character of its box, as interpreted by the Constitutional Court". We're not above it. The Constitutional Court had already ruled on the subject at the end of the 1980s. Hey, I didn't rule the PP. He ruled the Socialist Party with absolute majorities many years ago. Nor were there people in the TC who were either the People's Party or the People's Alliance or whoever was at that time working. No, no, This was settled there. The People's Party is therefore not above the Constitutional Court. But if you agree so much that the Statute and the judgment are being complied with, let us vote for our amendment. Let us vote for our amendment. We say that it should be transferred as the Constitutional Court says. Don't make up arguments. If that's enough for us! If this same amendment has already voted against you and these gentlemen twice! And, man, if you want a Government of Spain to fail to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court, then we will never raise that, even if the People's Party is not in the Government. Please note that there are people on the bench today for failing to comply with decisions of the Constitutional Court. We are never going to ask a government to do that. What is more, what we propose is that the Government comply with them, that the Government of Spain, in the matter of the transfer of social security, comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court. That poses the People's Party, which must be a very rare, very rare, unconstitutional, anti-status thing. We are the only ones who advocate compliance with the Statute, the Constitution, because these gentlemen are in something else, and you are much more there, and those who do not know where they are. Because, Madam President, I believe this is the first time I have seen a compromise amendment which is a copy of a partial amendment. This of making a transaction in which not one comma of the amendment on which it is traded is changed, seems to me, at least, to be a pilgrim. But, Mr Martínez, you tell me about the public pension system. The only group that has brought to this House today the defence of the public pension system is the People's Party. Point one of our amendment: "The Basque Parliament reiterates its defence of a public pension system that guarantees the dignity of people at the end...". They vote for our amendment, because that was their speech. But no. You have signed as a compromise the amendment of the parties that support the Government. You'll know why. And you said why the Statute is not fulfilled. Well, because the Basque Nationalist Party did not want to, because, if not, it would not have the argument "We need another framework". He'd run out of that argument. If you read, if you bother to read the report of the 37 competences that the Basque Government referred to us, and you go to Social Security, which claims, and you start by saying – quotes the Constitutional Court's rulings on the subject – and says: "In particular, the STC has manifested the non-existence of a single constitutional model of Social Security..." – obviously, there may be several – "... opening the door to a new model that gives the management of the regime to the community." Hey, if there was a new model... But what are these gentlemen doing? That is, with the sentence that says, "Hey, management, the single box does not break; exclusive competence of the State," says, "There may be another model." And as we want another model, we propose that we be transferred on the basis of another model, which is illegal. So, what's on your mind... Next page, and they literally quote the ruling of the Constitutional Court, and says: "The autonomous sanctioning power – on that occasion, of the Autonomous Community of the Country Vasco–..., and thus excluding that of the State, to declare the concrete existence of infringements and to punish those that are not related to the economic regime of Social Security". This is what the sentence that you have written in your report literally says. And do you know the conclusion of the report? That the transfer should be made to him. And then they say, "And the Constitutional Court, in its ruling 124/89, has peacefully recognized for the Generality of Catalonia with powers no higher than those of the Basque Country." They assume those powers in that judgment. Take them down. Why don't you just assume? This says your report. Why don't you just assume? And I don't know if I've left any more papers than I had. Why don't you just assume? They do not assume that this is the literal phrase of the Lehendakari Urkullu four years ago: "That is broken goods." That's what the lehendakari told us here four years ago, "It's that you assume that, so, it's broken goods." Of course, it is not what the PNV wants, because the PNV interprets the Statute every different time, but, as they do well, interprets the Constitution every time differently, because I remember that the PNV voted against an amendment to the right of self-determination of the Spanish Constitution, but now they have interpreted that it is up to the additional provision of historical rights. But it is the PNV that decides how all the rules are interpreted, and in addition, the PNV decides whether or not the rulings or decisions of the Constitutional Court are applied. And there is also another phrase that comes very well into this debate, which is also from the lehendakari Urkullu and which he also told us in this rostrum not so long ago. "An effective system of guarantees for Basque self-government is not accepted, and this is what we denounce, and this is what we demand: a guarantee of compliance with the updated Basque self-government, as decided by Basque citizens." That is, the PNV; not what the Constitutional Court decides, not what the Statute says or what the Constitution says. And, of course, we are not going to play the game to the Basque Nationalist Party, although now Bildu buys the speech – they will know why – or those gentlemen sign their amendment and call it a compromise, because, of course, we are not going to play the game of devaluing the Statute of Autonomy, as they have been doing for years, because they have always proposed that it be left unfulfilled, so that they can say that it is unfulfilled. And this happened to us with the active employment policies, which had to be changed by the Government, which had to be changed by the Government so that, 10 years after they had been received by all the autonomous communities, this Basque country could have the active employment policies, with the PNV outside the Government, of course, but tangled on the outside, but tangled on the outside, because until then they had refused to receive them. And with this we are in the same, in the same. And to us, I'm very sorry, they can call us whatever they want, they can invent adjectives, they can say that we are above the Constitutional Court. We say, "No, what the court says"; that's what we have proposed, that's what... And, Mr Urruzuno, if you agree with that, I shall vote on our amendment. You will see how these gentlemen vote against compliance with the rulings of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u101	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Well, like that one said, "And turn the burra into wheat," Mr. Urruzuno. This is like a dejà vu Look, the Basque Socialists defend full compliance with the Statute. And, moreover, we note the unequivocal commitment of the Government of Pedro Sánchez to continue this path, because the greatest development of self-government has been with the socialists in the governments of Spain and Euskadi, because it means complying with the statutory law and reaffirming the pact between Basques and Basques with the rest of Spain. And we added. The Basque Socialists want to assume the economic management of Social Security without risking its unitary character for the whole of Spain or the public guarantee of pensions. And I agree at that point with Mr. Martinez. We are very interested in the public nature of the social security system and the public guarantee of pensions within the framework of the State, in the terms provided for in the Statute and in the terms in which it is agreed with the Government of Spain within the timetable and procedure agreed by both. And go ahead with this statement, on the other hand known, before the debate – once again – cheating that Bildu puts on the table to talk again about his, his right to decide and those things, because that is why he has come to this debate, because, if not, you don't understand those scarecrows. Last November the meeting of the Joint Transfer Commission was held in Bilbao. And there were materialized the last transfers on railway and motorway sections, promised by the previous government, but which had remained in limbo. At that meeting in November, the two Governments also discussed the proposal made here to address 37 different subjects from a timetable. And on that occasion, both Minister Batet and Mr Erkoreka admitted the difficulty around the economic management of Social Security and agreed to start with what seemed easier to unravel. It is not, therefore, that the calendar known in January brought any new developments in that regard. Nor does it – because, of course, for the Basque Socialists, it does not suppose so – renounce any or only one of the issues reflected in our Statute, including the matters assessed on social security. And the bilaterality, which you talk about a lot, Mr Urruzuno, was this. Bilaterality is that no government, neither that of Spain nor that of Euskadi, can make its cape a say with self-government. Bilaterality exists because it is part of the recognition of differences and difficulties, and it has a forum, which is the joint commission, to resolve them. Because, contrary to what Bildu proposes, we do believe in this Statute. You've never believed in him. He's been fought, permanently. Now they use it as an instrument. We believe in him and his content. And we do believe, moreover, in the pact that it means for us to live together with the Basques, who are different, with the rest of Spain, which is what has made us progress as we had never done in our history. And this requires some things: it requires dialogue, it requires negotiation and it requires a pact. This is how self-government has developed, how transfers have been made, but above all, and something more important, how we have been able to use those tools to broaden rights. We already know that you, the abertzale left, have never been convinced of this formula, and therefore, unfortunately, you have been absent in every and every progress of self-government that others have taken care of to settle down. They were neither in the debate of the public school, nor in that of Osakidetza, nor in the RGI, nor in the normalization of the euskera. None of them were expecting you. The only one in which they have been has been in the conquest of the right to housing. It's true. And it was "It's not bad to remember it" because we convinced them that we should do it together and adjust to the doctrine of the Constitution, which is what we did successfully, by the way. And that constitutional doctrine has also been incorporated into the proposals contained in the transfer report, which has been taken into consideration by the Government of Spain. And, from there, technical work is under way, and we hope that they can continue to materialize transfers, because, no matter how hard any one commits, the government will rule until the last day, until the election. But we are also convinced that after 28 April, President Sánchez will continue to lead the country, and will therefore continue with the work that has been carried out so far. And it is not small, by the way – although you will certainly not appreciate it – what has happened in these nine months, since the Socialist Party regained the government of Spain. In the month following his arrival in Moncloa, President Pedro Sánchez undertook with the lehendakari to remove from the courts the matters that Rajoy had questioned and to create a stable commission for the transfer of matter on the proposal of the Basque Government. In the first half of the year, the government of Pedro Sánchez untied the promised but not executed matters in relation to several kilometres of motorway and railway sections. In seven months he proposed a road map to go through the rest of the materials, which will materialize in the coming months. And, in the area of prisons and the economic regime of social security, which we continue to demand from the Basque Socialists, both sides recognize its complexity and commit themselves to continue working to solve the difficulties. And the proposed timetable is one of possible compromises if the technical and economic differences are resolved and does not deceive the possibility that the one concerning social security will materialize in this legislature, because nothing is worth the compromise – it could be made in the air – if then it does not take effect, as demonstrated by the previous government of the PP. And, at this point, the urgency in relation to Social Security is the agreement on its guarantee as a public system of protection and income adequacy, not only for half a million Basque pensioners, but for the 9 million Spanish pensioners, without renouncing what the Statute provides. On the other hand, we would like there to be a loyal opposition in Spain now, such as the one we exercised from the Socialist Party when the agreements on the concert, on the quota or on any other reached by the previous Government have been ratified in the Courts, but it is clear that we are not in those circumstances. So, as we said, the socialist response to this re-centralizing involution that – in that I agree with you – exists, the answer cannot be neither independence nor self-determination. The socialist response is that we shared as partners of the government 10 days ago. And I end by reiterating that Basque socialism welcomes the opening of this path of loyal and rigorous dialogue to resolve technical and economic discrepancies from the shared commitment to this self-government, the Basque self-government, without a single waiver of a single competence from those contained in the Statute, but I already know that that matters to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u103	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u104	Good morning, everyone. Well, as has been said, this late three months ago was on the table, we discussed this Chamber and agreed to a resolution. It is true what he said and today is true. For instance, it seems that those who are admitted to be alike, while others are the same. And there has been something in it, something has happened, something has happened, not only the dispute of the Moor of the Senate, but the answer of the Spanish Government. And the Spanish Government says that between the difficulties and the technical objections he has, we must end by arguing and agreeing. So when we're doing a planning thing, we're saying to ourselves, "You know, this is a political character, it's a very important jurisdiction, and, please, it's a part of social security." Well, the Spanish Government has another opinion. He doesn't seem to see that preference we see. Therefore it is important to say again, or what this Chamber decides, what it decides is important to bring it to the Spanish Government. I value it there. What's going on? Now, this motion we have in hand here again gives us occasion to look at the past, because we are talking about a calendar 39 years later. We have faith in a calendar, don't we? Thirty-nine years of delay. And it is an important subject; seeing the past, of course, because it was not given at the time when it was necessary to discuss it, and because the absence of these hands in the hands of the Basque institutions had consequences. For afterwards another discourse, which is very remunerative, seems to be the ruin of social security, because it is said to us: "You'd better not take it, because every year you'll have to take a huge sum of money from where you don't belong, won't you? "And even in the past and in the present time it seems to us that the care of the failure of social security or of ill-consumption is ours, as if we were independent states, and had been governed by social security all these past years. So it's not true, it's not true. It is evident what the Common-wealth says, and what Law ought to take place, or Jurisdiction. And it's not the same, it's not the same, just as you mention it in your repentance, it's not from any sentence what you say. It's not what you're saying when you're doing it, because it's a thing that's a union character, a lot of caractarian del cajaúnic. They are different things, which is distinguished by the State, and is distinguished by the correction of the fifth addition. One thing is caratarian del caja únicea And I would ask you a question: When has the popular party put a proposition on the table about Social Security for all these years? When did he play Mariano Rajoy's term? When did he put it on the table, in case, with the power to transfer it? When did he put it? Now the Socialist Party says, "I see difficulties, and we will discuss them, but it will have to be lost." He put it in the last place. We must answer this, and say: "Not according to this Chamber, it is a privilege, and begin to discuss it as soon as possible." And I'd say more, I think we ought to ask our Christmas for a proposition, a proposition, a transfer of that competition, how he sees the transfer, how he sees it, to inform the Spanish Government. They know him, but let us all know how we see our own system. And this, I know, is the only ones who know where it goes, and they know that this system, with the measures and decisions to take, would certainly ensure its future. Therefore, it is not only to ask the Spanish Government to put it into the calendar, in that work-making, or in that calendar, but, as we order it, to put it in, and to prepare it, so as not to make use of it as an excuse for it." Yes, things are usually difficult, but to have a 39-year-old delay under the pretext of this complexity is not quite normal. This is the past, but the examination of a situation which now influences the eucalypancy. And then he's looking at the future, looking at the future, and he's a similar right, like so many other powers. If they are not in the hands of the Basque institutions, it is clear that something fails, and that, if anything fails, a new political relation is required either to the institutions of the state or to the institutions, and that the schema cannot be founded on subordination, but in respect and equality of each other. And this is the change of political relations, because we want to keep the state now established, to renew and to sanctify that part of auto-grongery that has been reduced to a certain amount of restraint. And if we're looking at the future, an advanced society that will ensure its economic development, and even if we want to construct social justice, it's clear that we need new jurisdictions, that self-generacy requires enormous innovation and that it has to be a complete, complete, respected self-organization. But we've come from the past. After 39 years, some privileges are not yet at the disposal of the Basque Institutions, but of the Social Security. And, looking at the future, it is clear that this new relationship must proceed from this process of self-generacy, political desire, and must be a relation of respect between these two political subjects. otherwise it will not be a political and just relation; if it be not a relation of respect, equality, or equality, to the same relations, there will be only one under or above any one, which is subordination, and it has been the consequence of subordination that the present state has not been filled with it. That's why we think... We've already told you about three months ago, and we're telling him again, because we know that the conferences, at least at this moment, will often be in the calendar, if it's the country, that this young citizen, who's going to put what he's saying on the table, and put the Spanish Government on his schedule, in case, the discussions, the negotiation, and the agreement of the jurisdictions, of social security.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u105	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. After the answers, Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u106	Yes, good noon again. I, Mr. Martínez, will give him the reason in one thing, and when he says he doesn't understand what this discussion is about. And we really don't think you understand. You didn't understand, and we think it's quite simple, it's quite simple. Mr. Pastor, too, has hit the Lander Martíne's line. Mr. Egiebar's the only one who's got into that detail. Three months ago there was a discussion, but in three months there has been a matter of determination, and I think I've said that in my first word, and that's the way it was motivesed our interference. We asked the Spanish Government in December for a work market, and what happened here is that the calendar came in January and that we saw... What a surprise! So that's the only reason we've brought it because we believe that this college and arbitrary decision has no place here, because it makes the decision of this legislature and pass over the word, and at least for us, because it's a terrible lack of respect. So we interject Mr. Erkoke, and consequently we have brought this motion into our hands, where we ask Sánchezi to come in again, which he has not put in, as soon as possible. Hori da, chronology of the facts, sequence. It's pretty simple, we think. Then you throw me a sheet here of the system, of the model of the system, and what, and I don't know what, I don't know how many, and it turns out that on your initiative there's not a word about it. And, moreover, you sign a transaction with these gentlemen, with those of the public system, which is also not a transaction, as Mr Damborenea says, that the only thing that changes is the signature of Podemos, because it is berdin-berdina, ez da komarik ere aldatzen, but you put me here a retahíla that if public system, I don't know what, I don't know how many. Hey, we're in favor of a public system. And I'll say more, public and own system. System publikoa eta propriaa. That's right, but right now, we think we don't talk about it. To bring this hand here, to bring it here, and when we have it here, we shall speak what it must be. But what we do not allow is that you bring this dispute here, and that there is no word in your transaction about it. Where do you put it? A ver Eta Pastor jaunari ere..., berdina esaten du Pastor jaunak ere: public system, I don't know what, I don't know how many... Hey, you've come to a deal with these gentlemen; you don't say anything about it. I repeat, public and own pension system defends Euskal Herria Bildu for Bizkaia, Araba and Gipuzkoa. And Mr. Pastor says: "The government of Sánchezen has been nine months old." For us, hombre raoneble praudente Badakizu no desaktiba daitekeen gure mezu hau guztia? There's a very easy, very simple way to deactivate this whole Euskal Herria Bildu speech, and it's not welcoming him, that already so much ongiitorri we are already also... I mean, it's very simple. Pedro Sánchez transfers the competence of Social Security and already, it is over, the whole speech of Euskal Herria Bildu is deactivated. But don't do it, don't do it. We brought him back three months ago, and on the third month, April 29, we're going to bring him back; look what I'm telling you: on April 29, we're going to bring him back. Why? Because the competence of Social Security will not yet be transferred. We don't know what the government is going to be on April 29, but we'll bring it back, because we don't care. Be the PSOE, be the PP or be the one who has to be. Ekarriko dugu. And, to finish, I must say, somehow, I was glad that Mr. Egibar's speech made me happy in a sense, because he calls me a pretext. And in this sense we planned the middle-class ones this morning, and in these terms there would have been a middle course, and we could have carried this out. He didn't want to, but we're glad, because he calls to you because he calls you, and then, on the other hand, he calls him, plus a proposal from our system, a proposition that would be our system. If the Jelt Party of the West made another way in this sense, it will protect us, it will protect us. Because that's important, and that's Mr. Damborene's a way of answering that discussion he always makes. Damborenea jaunak esaten du: "Where are you going to get the missing 6 billion and what?". Esaten diogo: "You give us the machine, you bring us the machine, and then we will see how the machine works." Today, we know that giving up social security is giving up one third of our financial assets: 8 billion, 8 billion. Bring it, bring it, and we'll be able to do your best. We'll manage. In this country, there are far better conditions than in Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u107	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u108	They have a much better condition for making a more fair system of pensions and a more high-class organisation; And that, you know. And if it is not so, bring it to us, bring it to us, and it shall be in our power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u110	And, well, I'll say we'll go with ours, because we think it's more important to claim the jurisdiction of Social Security than to denounce the Spanish Government. And then, first of all, we'll go with our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u111	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Together, Poedemus. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u112	I understand the discussion very well. Then it's different whether you follow your line or not. But since we're asking for seriousness, did I spit on you? Did I spit on the public? Go outside and tell the pensioners that they're putting a pair of cards around the public system. Go and tell me. Klaro, begging On December 12th he spoke clearly in defence of the public and universal system, and not in ours, but in your proposition, not in your proposition, nor in your proposition, nor in your proposition, nor on the public system. And there it is, there's our difference and there's the argument. Good. You said now, at the end of your interaction, you want to talk about when to transfer, and when, and how, and how, how, and how, how, how, and how, how, how, and how to handle it, and place the defence of the public system upon the table; and talk about it, because I think, when we talk about Social Security, we must also talk about it. And although our planning is clear in self-reserving, defence of the state's performance, and in the gravity of the re-succeliative movement we are now seeing, we are also very anxious, and we have seen what has happened in the last three months, and we have been accused of what happens in the last three months. But this does not remove, though coincidence in this case does not remove the difference. One, because we believe that this transfer is made, as I have said before, complex, and a calendar is necessary; it is true. But, perhaps, an exclusive calendar is required for this thing, and thus we assure ourselves at least that it will come, and that it will not be in a package, waiting for what happens in it. And, on the other hand, as I said, what will we do with it? Should we guarantee a public system? Can we guarantee that all adults who are more than 65 in so many symmetrys will receive the only money they sometimes have? What example do you want? What are you trying to do with that transfer? Just content? A badge on paper? Or how do you want to run? How do you want to manage it? I haven't heard anything about it since I heard the second intervention. So your discussion will always be about bringing you in, and our discussion will always be about how we want to do it here and what public system we want to do around the social protection we want. And I think that's enough for that, as I said before, because there was a deal here on the 12th of December, and it was clear that it was the defence of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u113	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Popular. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Pastor, I didn't know that Mr. Sánchez was a dangerous involutionist re-centralizing, because he's been in the government for nine months. That is, if you continue with that mantra, you have not heard that the Government of Spain has changed. That is, if there is an involutionary and re-centralizing pusher, it will be yours, that of your Government. They rule here and they rule there. Let's see, Mr. Urruzuno, me, for being very brief. Neither you nor we give up a third of our income. Look, that money isn't yours – I know you'd like to keep it – or these gentlemen; it's from the contributors and the pensioners. But how do we give up, we have...! But what are we playing at? When the little machine comes. What little machine? The one about making money? Is that the one you got? Like they've decided 3 billion, the same way, pulling the little machine, right? The one about making euro banknotes. That's what we're talking about. Man, I'm not surprised you liked Mr. Egibar's intervention, because it's obvious he's gone where he went. Man, Mr Egibar, I have not told you that the responsibility for not having the powers here is because the Basque Government has negotiated badly, no; I have said that it has refused to negotiate and refused to claim them. In other words, active employment policies were not because the Basque Government refused to negotiate them and to receive the transfer for 10 years. That's not that they were negotiating badly, no: the refusal expresses. And the 39-year delay... But if they had run out of speech if they had to recognize that virtually all competencies are transferred! How they were going to say "No, we need another Statute because it is not being fulfilled"; you were going to run out of speech, of course. It tells me to distinguish between unitary character and single box. Listen, accept what the Constitutional Court says, and that's it. Don't accept me... What the Constitutional Court says, accept it. He doesn't accept it either; then, don't play word games that we don't... When did the People's Party put on the table...? Listen, this we brought today we brought four years ago, and ruled the People's Party in Spain; there was Mr. Mariano Rajoy. Did the Basque Government, chaired by Mr Urkullu, ask for the transfer as we said here, in compliance with the law? No, Mr. Urkullu didn't. Two years ago, we came up with it again. We... the party... let's see... I... you have to understand me: we're not the leading party like the PNV, are we? We respect the institutions; it is the governments that have to reach these agreements. Of course, I already know that the PNV, even if it is not in the government, is tangled behind in these matters, as we saw in its day, at the time of Patxi López. But the other parties are more modest; we are not so party guide at the time of these things. We put things here ruling in Spain. Why didn't you do it? "Mr. Rajoy, let the Basque PP say this like that." They were not; you voted against, you voted against. And why did they vote against it? Well, because he said it, because you want a system of your own, which he said literally today. Yeah, I know, I know you want your own system and independence, yeah. Sit down. I don't. The Constitution says no, the Statute says no, and the CT says no, of course. They say what they say, but, to make their speech about what you want it to be above, what is inadmissible is that they have been devaluing the Statute of Autonomy for years, which is more than an organic law or it was more than an organic law, as they call it in the amendment they have brought here today. Because it was a pact between Basques, and Basques with the rest of the Spanish, in addition to an organic law that must be complied with by both parties, Mr Egibar; all parties must comply with the laws. And, man, I understand... Let's see, if I know what you want! It would be enough for you, in the pension that the pensioners receive, instead of arriving at the Spanish coat of arms of the INSS, to arrive at the ikurriña of the Basque Government. That'd be enough for them. Yes! Why? To see if they can fool the pensioners and say, "Don't you see? Spain does not exist; the Basque Government pays the pensions, the Basque Government so..." As Mr. Urruzuno used to say, "We're giving up..." No, you're not giving up anything; you'll give up, if you want, your pension, if you're ever entitled to any, I don't know. Leave the rest alone, leave the rest alone. This is about deceiving the Basque pensioners by making them believe that it is not the rest of the Spaniards who have been paying the pension deficit of the Basque Country for more than 10 years, even with taxes from the rest of the Spaniards, because from what we collect here thanks to the Economic Concert there is not even a euro earmarked for the payment of pensions, Mr Egibar. And that's what it's all about here, hiding and deceiving pensioners. Let them really know why they are collecting their pensions and who is paying them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u115	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u116	Thank you. Well, you'd really have to know what each of you came to with this particular point in the rostrum, wouldn't you? Because one thing is published here, but, in fact, other intentions are hidden. And, if we are talking about the Statute, as Mr Damborenea said – and you are right – the Statute is not just an organic law. The Socialists have said that many times, that the Statute has a body of law but a soul of covenant; that is what the Statute of Gernika defines. It is a pact between Basques, between the different territories of the Basque Country, and between these with the rest of Spain. That's the Statute. In that spirit, those parents of the Statute set it in motion, and it would not be good for someone to try to distort that with other different readings. Because, of course, when you try to reach agreements by way of a pact, that path of pact that is consistent with that concept of bilaterality so dear to you, it is necessary for both parties to make efforts to reach agreements. And that means that everyone has to try to get close to each other's positions. I believe that we are at this point in time, and there are more difficulties in some cases and less in others. But everything requires a criterion of loyalty, because the pact is necessary and indispensable, and for that both parties have to sit at the table with their heads placed in the same place, to play with the same coordinates. And then more or less agreements can be made, but, in the end, you are not, Mr Urruzuno, precisely the most legitimate ones to come here, to this rostrum, to talk about compliance with the Statute. If you have done all you can to carry it from the very day on which it was approved and the feast was held in La Casilla to celebrate the approval of the Statute! They have always been against it, because it was radically against its strategy, its policy and its trajectory. I'm glad that, at least formally, in the speech, now they don't say the same thing. But, for you, it's just a transit phase to get to another place, we don't know exactly where. And you care a fig the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security, a fig, except as a claim of what is called your own system. Look, we're not in favour of a system of our own – you don't have to explain it in the gallery, because I think you know it – but it's that the only way to maintain a solid pension system across Spain for all pensioners is the one. Other models have appeared here, huh? Not long ago, a Basque pension system was put on the table here. What, do you know how it was funded? With contributions from social security and private entities. That was the Basque pension system, i.e. pensions for the rich and pensions for the poor. That's not and will never be our model, and that system can be very good for a press conference, but for nothing else. When things want to do well, in fact well, guaranteeing half a million Basque pensioners who have guaranteed their pension that will be revalued, that they will have decent pensions – which, unfortunately, they do not yet have – we must guarantee an efficient public pension and unitary system, and on a unitary basis; and everything else is dreams, which are very good for a Saturday night with a drink, but which have nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u117	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Finally, Eucariats. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u118	Mr Damborenea told me that we have not raised. We have not only raised the various governments of the People's Party, but if it refers, for example, to the last years of President Rajoy himself, before our position, before our insistence, Rajoy summed up – and I think it is literal –: "You are assisted by the legal and political reason to claim this transfer..." (the Social Security one) – the legal and political reason – "... but I cannot do so, because I have against the CEOE and the majority unions. I can't do it." "You have legal and political reason." You tell me where the problem was. Was he in the Basque Nationalist Party? No, no, No, no, The problem had it – and the current president continues to have it too – in the CEOE and in the unions, for that of the single box, etc., etc. Then, well, he has made a circumloque about what is the unitary character and the single box; that not, that are not the same unitary character and single box. And you deliberately confuse them. And it tickles. No, no, Well, no. Distinguish unitary character, principle of solidarity and the single box, which are different things. So it is that of Mr Rajoy that also Rodriguez Zapatero called publicly intransferable, intransferable. And yet everyone knows what the Socialist Party originally thought, in the authentic interpretation that is said of the Statute of Gernika, that they said that, well, the program had been written by Solchaga, a Navarro, who had apparently lost track. But, well, the Socialist Party's programme in the first, genuine, interpretation of the Socialist Party's Statute of Autonomy said that Article 18.2 attributes competence to the autonomous government, so it should be envisaged that a general treasury of the Basque Country would be created as a single box. Page 106 of the program. "Once the transfer process has been completed, the future Government of the Basque Country will have the capacity to administer and organize within its territory all matters related to health and social security under the high inspection of the State." Page 106. Like this. That was the interpretation in force, that of those who had adopted the Statute of Autonomy. We're talking about the '80s. What has happened: has the PNV changed the interpretation? Or did those who claimed to believe in the Statute of Autonomy cease to believe, or did those who, with the intention of fulfilling, warn of insurmountable resistance to fail to do so? Hori as benetako egia. Guk ez dugu ester inbentatu. Eta bukatzera noa. Ezen, Azkenean, guk esaten duguna Legebiltzar honetan onartu da, legealdi disparateetan. Baina badago, baita ére, gehiengo beat genuine onartu, nola izan behar two transferentziak, zein eratan. Eta guk exaten dugu, éta hemen, Legebiltzar honetan, onartu zen: "... with the establishment of agreements by which the management of the economic system of social security will be assumed in Euskadi, and in which it must be included as the executive capacity of the Basque Government, at least the recognition of the right and the capacity to collect social security contributions and the payment of benefits; the ability to decide the high and low in the system, both of employers and workers; the capacity to monitor and supervise the system, and the autonomous accounting and budgeting of the economic result of such operations". That's the scheme, it's not far from an apex... No, it's not the interpretation of the PNV; it's the consensus. When I ask you about these subjects you tell me that you were in UCD, but we already know that the People's Alliance voted against. I admit it, and I admit progression, development and change of mind. But those of us who approved the draft Statute of Gernika, and then negotiated, in General Courts, the Statute of Autonomy, the interpretation was this, not another. And I can understand you that as you pass from a no to the Statute, when you find a Statute mutilated, mutilated and cut, you feel more at ease, more comfortable, because, in short, it has not been what you said it was going to be. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u119	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now, since the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of Mr. Urruuno Goldsi's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 16; rivals, 56; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u120	So, not allowed original text. Next, we'll vote with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and Eubertarians, half-relational corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 64; opponents 8; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-03-07.u121	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon.
