ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Good morning. First point in theme list: "To bring in a special plan for four years to the legislature, which determines the new policies of union and reaction. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The wife of the Kotha, the representative of the EH Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, all of you. Today we come with a request that is very simple: We ask the government to grant an agreement made by this legislature, to fill the government with groups supported by the government, and a treaty with the government itself. It sounds paradox, but that's what he asks for. Tanto y tan poco. Not many of the disputes around the systems of the legislature contribute to facilitate the measures of cooperation and equal parenthood. The diagnosis is made around the subject, and I dare say, in a great degree, that it is shared. And the evaluations of the family's plan to support the families of the Basque Country, children, and teenagers...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u3	...it introduces a rather distinct diagnosis. And it shows that some basic elements, in other words, continue the decline of the birth rate, the desire of young men and the difficulty of producing hopes. He says there is a deficit of well-being and warns us that there is a disconsolate between the number of the children who wish to be, and the number of those who are at last. People cannot therefore create whatever family they please. In recent years the prospects of the propagation of the population have not changed, but the chances of the realization of these hopes, which is really important. The difficulties in building up projects for young people and autonomists follow, hidden poverty in this diagnosis. Diagnostikoak esaten du: "The percentage of the population that points to a high degree of difficulty in reconciling work with care and that of people who have difficulty adapting their day or work schedule to the needs of care, or of those who believe that it...". I'm sorry, but there's a lot of Christ's noise. You can't concentrate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u4	Yes, it is. Please be quiet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u5	I'll continue. As he said, the diagnosis indicates that the percentage of the population that indicates a high degree of difficulty in reconciling work with care and that of people who have difficulties adapting their working day or schedule to the needs of care, or of those who believe that motherhood hinders very or quite the female career path, has grown. The diagnosis also says that the differences of genera and the difficulties in the growth of their children follow the growth of their cares. The diagnosis also mentions that the expense of families and children is small. And the diagnosis also tells us that we have a standard of preparation, which is best suited to the union of work and family. And it is that yesterday Amaia Pérez Orozco told us in a very interesting appearance in this Parliament. He said that there are no good times for life: we have very late years of emancipation, the elderly in Europe; we double the rates of youth unemployment compared to those in Europe; precariousness, instability; record prices for housing; women who are still condemned to care, as she told us, for the care of the elderly, minors and adult men; women developing survival strategies to solve life. And so we are. Eta vadintza orietan, and being life as it is, because it is very difficult to emancipate and it is very difficult to develop a dignified life and to develop those desires – whoever has them – to have sons and daughters. The result, a society growing old, with everything that it presupposes. And it is true that the benefits for the reconciliation of work and family life and those geared towards co-responsibility in the upbringing of children are not all. But, as the diagnosis contained in the Fourth Family Plan points out, given the centrality of the economic benefits aimed at this purpose in a strategy aimed at investing in families and children, such as that promoted by this Government, it is appropriate to analyse in some detail the impact and functioning of these benefits, because, as the diagnosis itself says, these types of policies have, both in their general conception and in their concrete implementation, a number of limitations that suggest a relatively broad reformulation of them. The patches of prestige, which are expected to assist families in the system, and to excite peers of parenthood, have long been known. Many of these patches were received in a special report made by the Arts in 2014, the Basque Family and the Protection of Childs. He even told us about the plan's evaluations, didn't he? It is quite clear that these hitherto connected policy and preparations which have been directed to it have not been successful in the proper results. For the latter make great differences, the families which are in great difficulty are excluded from these preparations; They often remain unused for want of knowledge or lack of its efficiency. Reality is that families don't ask for these preparations. The Ararteko's latest report points to the difficulties in this regard, and if we go to the implementation of the 2018 economic items intended for this purpose, we will see that we are far from having implemented everything that was planned. And I think that there the simplistic explanations given to us by Councilwoman Artolazabal that "as there are no children you do not ask for this help" are not welcome. But, for the most part, preparations have a malicious influence: It makes women watch their backs, they play separate roles in the custody of their children, and encourage women's watch-dogs. They are pure answers, as a measure of stimulating the difference of genera. And this is not what we have said, in this diagnosis of the family, and the assertions that appear in the new plan. In the context of Familian and Children's Euscalum, the scholars recommended a profound consideration of the establishment and parentship of the family, as well as of the reorganization of the family and of the children's alliances, are cited in IV. IV. That this profound reflection was the need and benefit of this profound reflection, and that it was something to be reorganized. Family Plan, too. All this has been known for a long time, the diagnosis is clear, and I dare say it is almost undisputable. And, as politician Eva Silván said this very week in a very accurate opinion article on the challenges related to ageing, "in times of clear diagnosis, it is time to set priorities", and here we all have to do things. And we, of course, as we have already shown, are ready to take the initiative and do things, and to do them together with this Government, because we are talking about a matter that is strategic for this country. We are ready to work, to hold our shoulders to reverse the current situation, to reverse trends and to improve the opportunities for people to have children, to talk, inter alia, about quality employment, access to housing, but also about our system of support for families, co-responsibility and reconciliation. And we have. As soon as we announced the Euscal Familian treaty, we ordered a monographic in front of the doubts that had arisen about the subject, and, taking advantage of the new times which might have been opened in this line, we made this parliamentary proposal to correct these patches we had for a long time. In connection, the change and response of the surveillance culture and a set of promotions to the generic equality presented a set of approximations in the Basque Country. And among these measures we required the Parliament to make a four-year-old plan for complicitation and reactional politics. We were asked to discuss this job with the feminist movement, and to establish a sort of order in this series of enthusiasms and assistances which are directed to promote contact and response. And besides, we were asked to consider four elements in their design: The condition of this universality, its readiness, and its assistance, is the amount, and the manner in which it is paid. And we wanted this specialized plan to be brought here to discuss and also to insert economic memory. And we agreed with our fellow-citizens here, with you and our fellow-citizens, and then in the plenoia, EAJ, Socialist Party, together with the voice of Podemos and Euscala, and here I have to address myself, because Poptulous Party had recourse to abstration, but in any case, it went on. This being so, he had no intention of making this special plan. Family plans. In fact, the budget bill that M.M. was set up for 2019 showed that this change in the Family and Children's Euskal treaty was not made, at least, according to the model of the firming stations. For the council station and company continued in the same line in this proposition, and some alterations were received, but not those which were going on the foundation, not those which were going to rectify the patches they had not identified, not from that profound meditation of the paradigm, or from the direction marked by the signers of the alliance, not from the direction of the organization and the arrangement of the watch. And the report itself, in order to see how the budget's genus view is inserted, made a disturbing remark. And if that were little, more: To allow the paternal leave of 16 weeks of 16 weeks, one of the only measures which was remarkable in the budgets of 13 million, the chief physician has admitted that the decree to execute this permit will hardly be prepared before the autumn of 2019, so that it will hardly be possible to use the planned million game. And I dare say that we were placed in the context of a marchetin champagne rather than a change of paradigma. Because I don't know if you've made it up. How many times have the chief physician and Mr. Erkoa announced this measure? How many times since the last monographics? How many times? And how many times in different forms? You guys get the check out. In this state of mind, as to this profound reflection about the coloreds of confederations, it seems more necessary to us than ever to do this deep reflection of the experts and recommendations which are proposed in all places, since we see that we have, above all, a year later, nothing, or at least that you have, apart from words or plans. We've got a change of decree, we won't take any importance from it. I don't know how many times a measure has been predicted that it can be positive and that it can be in the right direction, but we are still here to see how and how it will be done. The will for reproduction, the promise to increase the games, the lack of specifications, a lot of predictions, a lot of predictions, but all the same as a mushroom. And what we need is an integral plan, a connected plan...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u6	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u7	And above all, he will mark a new north social that will place us in a particular direction, and solve the patches of our present life, and place us, as it were, in that way which is marked by this pact. There's no such thing as giving and no sign of it. But, as the song says, "nothing is the same here." Here, nothing is the same, for things have changed since a year ago, this government, which excited a popular state in this country, had first taken up with it some of its engagements which it had not fulfilled. And at that time, when the focuss were somehow lit in this town, it's just a year's up, and we talked a lot about the demography, and there were a lot of headlines around demography at that time. And I dare say that we agreed that among the romances which this people observes, there were those which are mentioned, and many that are not mentioned; And I wouldn't like to begin here again the discussion about the scene of that time, or the messages sent, because there is something to be said, and it is my intention here that we can continue to concentrate on harmony, and not in the way of disagreement. But the fact is, from the first January, that in this country there is signed a Basque treaty for Familia and Childe, with different agents, and that their fruits are not seen at all, nor in the change of direction. We, aware of the importance of the matter, and, above all, aware of the strategic point of view, suggested a monographic discussion. The government did not encourage the dispute we brought into this legislature, and besides, all the groups agreed, or agreed to the pertinency of the matter and the controversy. The chief physician himself admitted in this monographicograph that the things here agreed on would be important, so as to strengthen, in a certain way, the works that stood in front of him. And we made a good try. We came forward with precise proposals, a good attempt to penetrate into the paradigm, and to open new roads, and to find harmony above the differences, and we confessed to each other that the attempt was a good one, and made a decent arrangement. And I want to ask you today what it was for. What did he do for you to get this deal, then without explanation a la chita callando?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u8	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u9	...you've decided. Yes, I'm sorry, but I'm begging.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u10	But time is the same.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u11	...I'd like to take it. You've decided to do other things differently. And I will admit, Lord Faraway, that at least you have been smart, that we haven't lost each other's feelings. We made a sort of agreement with you, and I want to know what's the excuse today. What is it? Pincer? Is the reason today? Or what is it? That what we plan is too complicated? Or do you propose to agree with what is planned on the leftover, but to do it differently? What's the excuse? Because we agreed to this. We agreed to this with you and the government. And I dare say, apart from this sincerity and clarity, when we come to the agreements, when at least they are not satisfied...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u12	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u13	...that we are able to ask explanations. And I'd like to know what's the real reason for not filling up what's agreed here and what's been for you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. The team that issued the corrections together, Podemos, Mrs. Arana, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u15	Yes, good morning, everyone. The head of the table, members of the legislature. Care has entered Parliament and the Basque political agenda, and we have no doubt that it is to stay. There is a very long way to go to widen and move forward, it is true. But there is no turning back, as much as some parliamentary groups and, above all, the Government put stones on the road or do not want to tackle it properly. There is no doubt that, mainly thanks to the constant, tenacious and solid work of the women's movement, of feminism, care has broken into the political agenda. The care of dependent persons, children, sick persons, older persons or persons with functional diversity is a daily concern for absolutely all families, and especially for half of the citizenship, women, who have historically been overburdened with this responsibility. A work whose direct objective is the satisfaction of needs, and is characterized by the realization of multiple tasks at the same time, by a constant management component of times and spaces and by the versatility of the necessary knowledge. Care plays a strategic role, as we all need it at some point in our lives in order to be able to exist, although this is intensified more or less throughout our life cycle according to our poor or old age, or according to our state of health. Therefore, our ideal of self-sufficiency is unreal as we are all interdependent. I will not go into data since Mrs Kortajarena has already done so, but I would like to tell you that care is part of that scaffolding of the economic system that we have. It is essential in any economic and social model to incorporate infinite care work. And Elkarrekin Podemos has thus put it on the table, with initiatives in commissions or in this plenary, or placing for the first time the right to care and the right of women not to be obliged to care in a self-government presentation in which no one had raised up until then that this issue was worthy of a statute. There is no country project if care is not included. For all this which seems so obvious and so common sense, which is also based on objective data and statistics, still encounters resistance and obstacles to making policies that respond to this reality, which has been covered up and hidden for centuries. Those who defend an economic and social organization that offers good benefits and power to a few and forces all Andonis The inability or the null will of the PNV and the PSE to dialogue and reach an agreement today is a sign of that time of shy but hindering resistance that puts stones on the road to face this tremendous challenge that we have in our hands the political leaders of 2019. The initiative we are discussing today was presented at the beginning of February and highlights and calls on the Basque Government to comply with one of the agreements reached more than a year ago in the full monograph on family policy and demographic challenge. It's very good to vote in Parliament, and then if I've seen you, I don't remember. In between, Elkarrekin Podemos presented an inquiry into care, and on March 7 we reached a unanimous agreement from a motion that I myself presented and defended. It was an initiative on care, more egalitarian society and tools to put lives at the center. It is pertinent to recall this motion, because it is closely related to the non-law proposal put forward by Mrs Kortajarena. Firstly, because it urges all the institutions to promote recognition of the social value of care, and I understand that this Parliament is not a white horse and that it should also put up its batteries and reflect on it. Secondly, because, as a Parliament, we are committed to finding paths for development in which the sustainability of life is central. And third, in that initiative, we urged the Government to carry out an evaluation of the model and care policies. Because doing public policies without data, giving sticks to the air, is a lack of responsibility. This point, the third, is directly related to what we are discussing today and to the task that we want to entrust to the Basque Government, which is nothing other than to comply with what this Parliament unanimously agreed more than a year ago: to refer to Parliament for its debate a special four-year plan which involves a paradigm shift and concrete policies of co-responsibility and conciliation. In this plan, a set of new benefits and aid will be collected, based on the following four elements: universality, entitlement to benefits and aid, amount and form of payment. It is therefore very pertinent to present it, especially when it has been approved and not complied with. Appropriate steps to provide responses to citizens necessarily go through assessing what is being done and then developing plans to address the needs and problems that arise. But this, which seems so common sense and manual, is not shared by the groups that support the Government, even though they voted in favour of this same point during the monographic debate on family and demographic challenges. Where I said, "I mean Diego." Unfortunately today we will not be able to get an agreement that had already been approved a year ago, this is terrible, and it is wonderful to see how some change from jacket to function – as I said – from where the wind blows, and we are clear that it is due to the decision of the PNV and the PSE not to promote or contemplate this initiative, because they do not want it to come forward, nor to solve the underlying problems related to care. For you care is Yupi's worlds stuck in Eurodisney, or something like that, that you don't know where it gives you the air, or how you can deal with it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u16	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Euscalal Group Representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chairman, the congressmen, all good days. Well, we're still talking about family politics when we're talking about the law, probably it's not the last time and it's not the first time. We must say that this group has brought this subject several times to discuss the legislature. We have, indeed, directed four interpelations to the chief physician, and have introduced motives in this legislature to discuss this whole meeting, and have discussed several other undertakings which have often been introduced by the other parties. For a particular reason, it is plain that this government has not fulfilled its duties after three years. I should be more clear: This government, in family politics, has not kept its commitments, its precise commitments. He said that this Government's balance sheet on family policies leaves much to be desired, much to be desired when almost three years of the legislature have passed. And I say this, first of all, because there has been a delay in adopting the necessary instruments to articulate measures to support families, concrete measures. I am referring to the delay in the adoption of the support strategy for families, and that the Lehendakari himself in the general policy plenary, back in 2015, told us that he would arrive soon; he arrived more than two years late. The Family Support Plan, the IV Plan –because the third one ended in 2015 – was approved in the summer of last year: more than two and a half years late. We have to say that the measures provided for in the III Family Plan aimed at convergence with the European Union in 2020 have also not been implemented. We must also say that the multi-annual investments announced in the pre-election campaign, in the electoral campaign, have not been reflected in the budgets either, because the increases that have come in the area of family policies, we must say loud and clear, have come from the hands of the People's Party. We must also say that one of the measures also announced at the beginning of the parliamentary term, which was to increase aid to the second child in an annuality, from two to three years, because it was launched this summer, and that was announced, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the year. Well, and then came the big announcement, the big announcement that comes to us precisely in the debate of the monographic plenary on March 21, 2018, which is the economic benefit for paternity surpluses. This announcement is made last year, more than a year ago, it is still unimplemented and, above all, we see with great concern these announcements of the Basque Government that remain in advertisements that fill newspaper covers, news covers, and then citizens do not perceive them. I therefore believe that the Government is clearly failing to fulfil all its most important family commitments, which makes it quite negative and, as I said at the outset, leaves much to be desired. But it is that this concrete measure, the great announcement, the star measure of paternity leave also overlaps to some extent with the paternity leave announced by the Socialist Government, and, with the latest statements by members of the Basque Government, we see with concern that it will not take shape this year. In the budget debate in the Finance Committee, when the Budgets were presented and we saw this appropriation of 13 million to implement this measure – and I say "the star measure of this government" – the councilwoman herself was already telling us, she was already announcing in that appearance that the corresponding decree would be approved – which we would already see – at best, in the autumn of 2019. Several statements by other members of the Government have also corroborated this issue. That is to say, we can think of the end of the legislature without the possibility of implementing this star measure, which, as I say, was announced in drums and plates more than a year ago, specifically on March 21, 2018. It is clear, then, that this government does not fulfil its duty as a family policy, and we should remark in the political political policy of the family. Here we have a proposal of meeting to-day, which, as has been said here, is required to make a certain proposal which was tried in that monographic plune, because this government has not yet fulfilled this precise proposition. We, as Mrs. Kortache has shown, at that moment gave the proposal our abscession. We have exaggerated, because we thought it best to apply this plan to a treaty between different institutions, or to have a collaboration, Eudel, and the co-ordination of many associations, and so we gave it our abstention. At this time, when we are presenting an amendment to the initial proposal of the EH Bildu group, we consider it appropriate to introduce the nuances or safeguards that we thought at that time should have been introduced in the proposal that was adopted with our abstention in last year's monograph in relation to family policies and the demographic challenge. We believe it is important that a specific plan be put forward, that policies be put into practice in the area of conciliation and co-responsibility, but as long as account is taken of the rest of the institutions, provided that account is taken of Eudel and all the associations involved, not only some associations, but I believe that of all the associations involved. That is the amendment that we have tabled again. It seems that there is not much chance of consensus on the different positions that the groups have taken in our amendments. I therefore have to say that we will maintain our amendment, in principle, if there is no possibility of agreement, as we have incorporated it in our entire amendment. And with regard to the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, because it does not come to say much, because it says, in fact, "that it is fulfilled in the IV Plan and all the measures of the IV Plan". But seeing that the III Plan has been breached, that it has been breached in the various concrete measures in relation to the increases in aid envisaged, seeing that the convergence criterion with the European Union has been clearly breached, because we do not have much hope that this plan will be fulfilled. Especially when announcements are being made, the announcement of the principle of the legislature to increase an annuality, from two to three years, for the second child has been implemented with a year and a half of delay, and seeing that the star measure of the paid surplus, remunerated, for the paternity permit of 100% of the contribution base is not going to be approved even this year, because the truth is that we do not have much hope in that Family Plan which, as I said, arrives late. Therefore, Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor, and also taking advantage of the fact that Mr Lehendakari is present in this debate, I did not expect anything else, talking about family policies and above all about the government that stands in the people's government: a clamorous suspension, which I see is very difficult to reverse at this time of the legislature. But also, look, the problem we have there, that is, we have an autonomous community that has the lowest birth rates: 2015 compared to the previous year it fell by 2.8%; 2016 it fell by 3.2%; 2017 it fell by 6.4%. The fertility rate is the lowest, not only in comparison with the rest of the autonomous communities, but with the rest of the European Union: Ireland and the United Kingdom, 1.96; Sweden; 1.8; the Netherlands, 1.7; Germany, 1.5. I, Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor, do not know what else you need, of course, to tighten the accelerator and, of course, to consider family policies, and in this case also as a very important point and a part underlining within family policies, reconciliation and co-responsibility policies. I don't understand. Honestly, I don't understand. I think they have slept on a key issue, on a crucial issue for this autonomous community, above all, seeing the problems and the figures we have. Therefore, I do not know when the legislature will end, but, seeing the inaction of this government, this group will also wonder whether it is also necessary to bring another question to this Parliament in order to ask the counsellor again about family policies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u18	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u19	Yes, thank you, President. We have discussed on numerous occasions in this Parliament the support for the family in motions following an inquiry presented by the People's Group at the plenary session on 9 March 2017, on 2 November also of the same year, and on 15 February 2018, and the last one on 7 February 2019. We have also discussed motions on care, as the Elkarrekin Podemos group has also indicated. We discussed in the monograph plenary on 21 March 2018, where numerous resolutions were agreed that have been included in the Fourth Family Support Plan, where we had the opportunity to discuss in depth the measures to be taken in support of families in our autonomous community in a broader way within this plenary. Prior to the monograph, the Basque investment strategy for families and children had already been developed since the last quarter of 2017. Already prior to the February 2018 motion, we showed that the adoption of the final document was delayed because it was considered that such a strategy would be desirable if it were implemented with the greatest possible consensus. And so it was done, and the Basque Pact for Families and Children was signed in January 2018. Since June 2018, after the family monograph, we already have the IV Family Support Plan 2018-2022, where the strategy and the pact were implemented in concrete measures. Because the revenues of the strategies are achieved over the years and that requires a global strategy that does not change every short time, but that is maintained and sustained, so that the results are the desired in the long term, that allows to improve those birth rates. It is also important to bring about this change in culture and society, and that cultural change within companies. We have also reiterated on numerous occasions that we cannot base this overall strategy on short-term policies, based primarily on assistanceist aspects of conciliation aid, but that, on the contrary, broader aspects need to be covered. We must make progress on the European model. However, it must be borne in mind that we are the only autonomous community that already goes through the Fourth Family Support Plan, and that every year more resources have been allocated to this social assistance. And it is also considered a subjective and universal right. We've got good wieners. In the original proposal put to us by the proposer group, the EH Bildu group, that based on an amendment adopted in March 2018, in the family monograph, the overall strategy set out in the 4th Family Support Plan, another special plan for four years, which involves a paradigm shift and concrete policies of co-responsibility and reconciliation, should be developed apart from this strategy. Moreover, the design is carried out in collaboration with feminist movements, based on four elements: universality, ownership of these benefits and aids, amount and way of payment. And in the transaction signed with the Elkarrekin Podemos group, it is added, that a concrete collective is included, within that plan, the one chosen by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, to include special measures to address concrete problems for homoparental and homomarentales families. And we do not agree with what has been said. Because, as I have indicated, we are in favour of global strategies, which deal with all the needs as a whole and for all the collectives, in order to change trends that continue over time and serve us to achieve the objectives we pursue. You propose, and we are seeing many similar proposals lately, that where there is a global plan, you now want a special plan to be drawn up and that different and specific plans be drawn up for different groups, and that is not correct in our view. And having a global strategy does not prevent us from delving into measures that will help reconciliation and improve co-responsibility. Because within this plan, this IV Plan, the need for us to move in this direction and move along the lines of what the European model marks. And that is precisely what this plan seeks to achieve. We do not see it as a good thing that we now have to adopt specific plans separately, today for one collective, tomorrow for another, for another, for another. That does not seem to us to be a serious policy and that is why we have not supported the compromise amendment. The People's Party, in its amendment to the whole, also proposes that a special plan be drawn up for four years, which will give concrete policies of co-responsibility and conciliation to be promoted in the coming years. And, in the same vein, it does not seem necessary either, because we already have the Fourth Family Support Plan, where these issues are already included. That is why we are going to support our amendment to the whole, the amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, where the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to two things: to develop the measures envisaged in the second axis of the Fourth Family Support Plan and the other measures that affect an improvement in the corresponding reconciliation, and to develop the measures envisaged in the strategy against the wage gap, in order to promote a more equitable sharing of care tasks. We're already counting on the wieners. For us care, conciliation, co-responsibility are important, but we consider that they are already collected within this IV Family Support Plan. Nothing more. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u20	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Chief of Staff, Congressman, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. To-day, the starting-point of our party on the subject is the need of promotement of a member of society, by a model of a family which both parents share in productive or professional duties, and which is equally shared in performances or care. And all this must be the purpose of a short-term period, including the practice which has already begun to value and expand, to guard or co-operation the launch of the pilots of projects which will experience the new formulas of the co-citation, or to co-ordination, and to establish grounds for continuing work in all sorts of ways. Again, the object for a longer period is to extend the balance measures to the majority of Basque companies, sizes to size, and sectors to sector. And at the same time, based on a society which had been conscious of solidarity and was directed to an effective redistribution, it was evidently advanced to a higher equality of the use of time. And, yes, we are aware that there has not always been a good result in the fine works made on this subject, as we are aware, especially since it has been altered with the Family Testament, that it often requires more time to judge of the propriety or incomprehensibility of the settings of these policies, or to judge of the imperfections of these policies, than we do of those which we make use of, by the consent of distinct agents, and by the arrangement of families, and by the latering of the law, to begin the development of it. Like the family with the plan. IV. That which raises the policies of positivity and reaction. The family plan, strategy and action plan that will come in the next few months to reduce Eukadin' salary, and the men's strategy to come in the next few months. It seems to us that we have enough tools to deal with the matter in code and not in other cases. The government is moving forward, after its monographic meeting in this house, to introduce two plans, and soon to come the third. And the chief physician of the department is to help Familiai Part IV of the Art Organization. When he introduced us to the plan, as he said, IV. This family plan has received 73 from the 93 resolutions approved in this monographico, and it has been left to be too exact or too generic for the fact that it was not received. 4. What is required in this resolution of no monographiccle, is placed in a great measure. Organizational Family Plan. And when we got here, I'd like to introduce you to 4. I'd like to give his value to the family plan. What was done under the protection of the results, which contains a series of readinesss and assistance, which tend to promote solidarity and reaction, and the other a confession and protection of family equality, alliance, and dismemberment; a reciprocity, a genus equality, and a ratio of balance, or a principle of activity of progressive universality, as a policy. And everything with its economic support. That plan has an important fund, because we should add not only the resources of several departments, but the resources of the town and town towns. So, in the family history, the year of 2018 to 2022 is $1763,7 million. Of these, 1.243.7, are directly governed by the Depart of the Eplegus and Polic Society; and from all which they are to be ordered to give rise to 286 million contingencies. That said, before the introduction of the non-law proposal, as regards the amendments tabled, before the amendment adding Elkarrekin Podemos, the fact is that we did not understand how, at this point in time, a pre-plan evaluation can be requested as an addition, when the evaluations have long been materialized with the collaboration of a large group of experts and academics. The evaluations have had a broad consensus on conciliation and co-responsibility among the various actors in the sector in the previous years of the Family Pact and the Fourth Family Plan. And, by way of information, I say to you that the Family Plan itself contains two types of evaluation, in the first of which an interim evaluation will be carried out in 2020, in order to update the data that allows to diagnose the main needs and to evaluate the degree of compliance of the actions envisaged in the plan and their impact and to promote changes and adaptations in the formulation of the actions in case the evaluation so advises. Also, with regard to the second point of the addendum amendment, which is included in the transaction you have signed, concerning special measures to address the specific problems affecting homoparental and homomarental families, as I have already said in Basque, the IV Family Plan itself includes as a principle of action, among others governing this plan, the recognition and support of family diversity, equal treatment and non-discrimination, since the plan starts from the recognition of the profound process of change in which family structures, family life paths and family relations are immersed, and seeks to ensure that all family structures have the same degree of recognition and social protection. This plan incorporates among its principles those of equal treatment and non-discrimination on the grounds of racial, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation or identity and gender identity, and we therefore believe that all this is included within the IV. Inter-agency Family Support Plan. On the other hand, Mrs Garrido, as regards your amendment, I believe that I have already responded – and probably in the second round of speaking I will still do so in a more specific way – to the non-specific need of the plan in view of the existence of the plans and strategies that we have in hand. For the time being, the Fourth Family Plan, the Strategy and Operational Action Plan to narrow the pay gap and the next strategy on caring for caregivers. In agreement with you on the need to do so always with the other institutions, Eudel, social partners and associations involved, for example in the Basque Family Council, I would add that with broad agreements with a vision of the future and of the country. In front of all this, we introduced our own correction and we'll stand up for that amendment today. On the one hand, we'd ask if you'd help me with the families. Let him develop the measures received on the second side of the plan, especially those which will assist him in improving his answer, with the measures directed to the cultivation of the positive parents and to the subjection of secure affection. And, on the other hand, we requested that his salary should be developed in the preventive strategy of the filigree, and that he might thus take advantage of the more effective distribution of care-tasks. Finishing up. I'll finish up with Mrs. IV. When he introduced the Family of the Art Organization, like I ended my first engagement. Once I read a thought of René Descartes saying there were two ways of advancing: one to go faster than any one, and the other to take a good road. I don't know if we've gone the best speed, but we're quite sure we're on the right road, and that we always have to follow this way from the wide agreements, because we have here, after all, one of the most important challenges of the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. In the turn of the answers, representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Kotha's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u23	Thanks again. Far off the gentleman said there are two ways of moving forward: one to go faster than one, and the other to choose the right way. The question is, we agreed with each other on this side of the legislature that this was the right way, and that now you have chosen the easiest and the fastest way: 'I'm going to go to a college school-that's what it is here.' Ze, begira, hemen dago full monografikoko..., and this too I say to Mrs Sánchez, these are the votes of the full monograph we made here in March, and that is where we discussed this proposal that we agreed with you and with the members of the government. And it says: Basque Nationalists, yes; Euskal Herria Bildu, yes; Elkarrekin We can, yes; Socialist Party, yes; and abstention from the People's Party. That is, that you are talking about serious policies, Mrs Sánchez, you are talking about global strategies, that it is not right now to make a plan about another plan, but it is that you agreed with us to do this, to incorporate it into the Family Plan, you with the Basque Nationalist Party and with the members of the Government, because it was not unilaterally, the members of the Government were also present. Y vamos a rectapular. Miren, do we agree on the diagnosis? Yeah. Is it clear that this new path and reflection are the necessary ones? Yeah. Did you do what you said and ask me not to put a perfile in that business, and we did perfile and co-worker to open up new steps on that new path that could be opened? Yeah. Did we get the deal? Yeah. We made a deal. We agreed to the right way to follow it. Did you do what I said? No, you have not obeyed, you have eaten your word, and now you come here to tell me that it is not fitting for you to do so. Is that serious? Is that the way to cooperation? Is that the way you've so often spoken of and the way you've been talking about? For the continents are produced, and they are created, as I have said, about the measures of alliance, in which, Sir Faraway, I agree, and so am I. And there are consensus about the patches we have and about the thoughts we have to do. And, above all, there are consistent reflections about the way to follow them. So, a little seriousness. I think there's two things here. On the one hand, you were committed to this law, and in the plots of government, to the demography, to the performance, and to the family aid, and you did not observe them. And on the other hand, in this monographicographic, you have not even fulfilled those which have been agreed to work and cooperate with each other, and this has morality. For it seems to me that this is the moral of all that we have discussed today, because in many of the things that we have talked about, aurrekoan esan bezala, ba, adostasunak eta desadostasunak ditugu, baia aurrekoan adostu genuen herri honetan demografiaren inguruan kokatzen direla herri errornka asko, éta horiek jorratzea eta nola jorratzea inportantea zela. And we're ready to agree with you, and we're ready to open these paths for popular traditions, to go on in matters which will give us the opportunity to draw the future of this people under other conditions, and it's clear that those who are related and are not told are some of them, and we work, but we know how to adapt our positions and to the agreements. And besides, we have brought this expressly out of elections, so that we may open this way of consent, and have no other excuse. And we said what we were going to do, we said we wouldn't put up a perfile, we'd bring in suggestions, we'd go through the roads to cooperate, and that's what we did. What are you guys up to? You told me that new times opened once, that new times opened in return for this pact, and they are still to be seen, and I think we are still in time: he spoke and kept his word, and voted for the performance of what had been agreed upon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Podemos, Mrs. Arana, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u25	Mr Urrutia, we ask that current public policies on this issue be evaluated, because some policies that are currently being implemented are perverse for women. And if we ask to evaluate them, it is to detect all those who are perverse to women and to lay and pose others who are not. Look, here's a clear little problem that we've been dragging for decades, and it's that you, the PNV, between the care needs and the capital enhancement needs, obviously prioritize the second logic. And from this vision and country project arise the problems of reconciliation. We do not have to look for three feet to the cat, we women have problems to reconcile, because they have organized the labor market as if there were no care, and because women are required to care as if we did not need an income to sustain the lives of our families. And if not, let them ask Rementeria, that he has it very but very clear. And you, strong followers and followers of liberal feminism, the one that Rivera thought was discovering for the world, that yes, you, with Basque label, promote policies of supposed equality that are the save who can. The conciliation policies developed by the Basque Government so far are a trap for women, and you say so yourself and do nothing to change it. They are a trap that you perpetuate and consolidate an inequality that benefits those in need of precarious workers and promotes someone to support the social reproduction of baratite for the Basque Government's arks. And, Mrs Sánchez, that we go through the Fourth Plan does not guarantee anything at all. Lanbide's data on inclusion in the labour market, part-time work, surpluses or abandonment of the same motivated by the care that we can all see, also in the gender impact report in the budgets, are compelling: women still bear the primary responsibility for the care of dependent people. The gender gap in the occupation rate increases as more offspring are born: when no children are born, the gap is 7.2%, while it is up to 15% when two or more children are born. And if we put the magnifying glass on people's right to be cared for decently, then more of the same. Economic aid, but no intention to put these people in a place of public policy, so that each person resolves in the family sphere and nothing changes from this economic and social model that benefits only a few. In Euskadi, Mrs Artolazabal and members of the PNV and the PSE, there are 13,794 people who are in the limbo of the unit, so calculate how many families are in serious trouble to reconcile and how many domestic workers are solving care at low cost And if they tell us about the wage gap strategy, they are talking about a document that they published without the backing of 60% of the union representation, but they dared to use their acronyms to look like support. A document with a budget that can't be found anywhere, because only you should see it, because neither we, nor I don't think anyone is able to find it. And, in addition, they have labour disputes over wage gaps in sectors that are entirely their responsibility throughout the Euskadi, which are their full responsibility: police and judicial cleaners have been on strike for eight months because of wage gaps. When do you plan to take responsibility for the wage gap that you create yourself? Not only with the budgets, but also with the measures and contracts that you carry out. Well, I can see from their faces that they don't even think about it, but good. Look, this week, the PNV and the PES and the PP have agreed to pass the Police Act, in which they have refused to take measures to end the wage gap. You know, liberal feminism, with Basque label. And, if we look at the unique family model that you promote in the background of your plans and initiatives, it is composed of father, mother, son, daughter, and surely also some photogenic pet. The last report submitted by Ararteko, without going further, once again, underlines all the obstacles that single-parent families have to overcome, and also points to the continuing discrimination in the educational system towards non-heteronormative families. And their policies also do not reflect the reality of the multiple family roots that exist in foster care. Mrs Sánchez, your global strategies are based, as I have said, on a heteronormative family model. And not meeting other realities and their needs is called liberal feminism fatherhood And if we speak, as you say, Mr Urrutia, in the IV Inter-institutional Plan of Support for Families, of principles of non-discrimination, do you believe that in the term paternity leave The same would happen to homomarentales, homoparental families, do they have the same needs for conciliation and co-responsibility as the heteronormative couples on which you make your global plans? Do you think putting a paragraph is all solved? Non-discrimination, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Measures must be taken to meet the needs of the different models of families. Otherwise, we're...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u26	Finish up, Mrs. Arana.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u27	Just a moment, please. Otherwise we are invisiating and not taking these families into account. Mrs Sánchez, your globality is perverse for minorities. And, last but not least, you are voting no to something you voted on that only a year ago; an initiative that was unanimously adopted you are boycotting it without indecentness. Of course, we are clear, we will continue to work, we will continue to put care at the centre of the parliamentary debate and we will continue to put forward concrete proposals to improve a Euskadi that is for all and for all and not just for a few.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u28	Thank you, Ms. Arana. Euscalal Group Representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here it has been stated that we have discussed family politics several times, and the question would be why it is necessary to discuss this subject several times in this legislature. We've been presenting a number of these three years of initiative, some of us have been introduced by the Poptular party, and it seems that we must continue to present the initiative in this area of government. The question is why we have had to debate so many family initiatives, why it is still necessary to debate so many family policy initiatives, and it seems that in the future it will still be necessary to bring them to this House; of course this party and this parliamentary group, if the legislature continues to do so, because we see that it is difficult to reverse a very weak trend and situation or a very negative balance in relation to family policies, because of an attitude of this government. But well, if the lehendakari's intention is to finish the legislature, I imagine that something will gain, seeing the bad balance that he has, not only in family policies, but in legislative production, because that is things of the lehendakari itself, but I want to say that in the matter of family, Mr lehendakari, nothing has been done, it is that you have done nothing, and you do not laugh. I think this issue is very serious. It's just that you announced that you were increasing an annuality from two to three years, and it's cost you a year and a half. It is that you announced last year the waiver of paid maternity leave and still, it is going to end the year, and you are not going to start it. Two measures, Mr Lehendakari. It is because you have had money put on the table by the People's Party in successive budgets and, for lack of diligence, to approve the necessary instruments to ensure that these measures can be implemented, have not been approved in due course and there are many amounts that have not been implemented in the year envisaged, Mr Lehendakari. Do not tell me if this is not inaction, if this is not apathy, if this is not a government's passivity in relation to an essential policy affecting Basque citizenship, such as family policy. It is that you have told us many times that it is the people's government. But how can you tell us that it is the people's government, when then, to the first change, and forgive me for saying so, it has left the Basque families thrown away? In an autonomous community where we have a demographic challenge problem, where we have a low birth rate problem, where we have a population ageing problem, with health and social spending growing year after year. I do not know, it is that I, in fact, have been trying for three years, especially this past year, to find a reason for this inaction, apathy, passivity, no longer know, irresponsibility of a government in relation to an essential policy, which had to be absolutely priority, seeing the situation in which we are in Euskadi. It is that then you have a problem on the other hand, because, if the population in Basquedi is getting older and older, we have more problems also with dependence; it is that you too the young people are leaving. It's just that Euskadi is not attractive to young people who decide to go to study outside, which is very good, but the problem with young Basques who decide to go to study outside, to form outside, to have a professional curriculum, is that then that talent stays out, because they don't come to the Basque Country, because Euskadi is also no longer attractive to young people who were born in Euskadi, Mr Lehendakari. What I do not understand is the lack of diligence on the part of a government in relation to these policies. I did not agree, I did not agree with the original initiative of Mrs Kortajarena and the EH Bildu group on the proposal and the motion for a resolution. I did not coincide for the reasons I pointed out, because we believe that consensus must be sought with Eudel, with the rest of the institutions and with all the associations, and not with a number of specific groups. But they're right. It is that you have failed to fulfil a commitment of your own monographic plenary. What credibility has a Government that is systematically failing to fulfil its own commitments? The commitments that go on its government agenda, the commitments that go on the legislative agenda, the legislative timetable, the commitments that go on the plans that this government approves. What credibility does it have for you to tell us here that you are going to comply with the 4th Family Plan, when the measures of the 3rd Family Plan, many of them in increments of concrete aid in concrete annuities, are not being complied with? We will continue, Mr. lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u30	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u31	Let's see. When we were in the family monograph in March last year, the wish of all parliamentary groups in this House was for the Fourth Family Support Plan to be drawn up soon and as soon as possible. That Family Support Plan was drawn up in June last year, that plan was drawn up; a lot of measures were taken within it. It's been a few months and we come here and we say that we don't like the plan, and now we want this and the other thing to be done, more still, that it's not bad, that we always keep moving forward is good. But of course, we have a plan, recently approved, and now we want a plan for this collective, tomorrow will come another and we cut for another, and we are with global plans, with global strategies, which is what I mean, and the globalization of a plan where the needs of different groups are collected is not bad and does not mean that we do not want to meet the needs of different types of family, because, of course, it is going to meet and meet the different needs of each other. And, of course, for us, co-responsibility, the fight against the wage gap and improvements in conciliation are important. And measures have been taken against the pay gap on the part of the Basque Government, but we also forget that, throughout this period of time, other things have also been approved at national level, right? Because nobody here has referred to different decrees that have been passed that also affect what we are talking about today, because from the Government of Spain, at the beginning of the year, by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, with the support of some political groups – which are also in this House, right? – different decrees have been adopted that are aimed at adopting policies and measures, precisely, to improve different areas of what we have talked about here today, such as paid paternity leave. That influences. That didn't exist. When the announcement of what was to be done was made here, this decree was not approved, was it not? Is there anything you'd like to bring in? Is it good that it has been approved at the national level for everyone? Yes, but will that also affect income, the money that from here has to be directed at that, because something later has been approved that is also interlinked with that? Well, yes. But it is good that it is approved at national level, so that everyone can have that right and not only can we have it here, in the Basque Country, as was our desire and our intention; but it has been approved at national level. As has also been approved at the national level and the Decree on the contribution of non-professional caregivers, which is already being requested and requested, as has also been approved against the wage gap, also at the beginning of the year, also supported by different groups in this House, which are aimed at adopting policies and measures to improve all these matters. With this, it is very clear to us that all these policies, everything about conciliation, co-responsibility, the fight against the wage gap is very important. That is why we are taking measures aimed precisely at achieving improvements in this regard. But we believe that after all that monograph we had, as I started to say at the beginning of my presentation, we have the recently approved Fourth Family Support Plan, which must continue to be implemented, and that is why our amendment to the whole is aimed at deepening precisely those measures that are contained in that plan. That is why we support our amendment as a whole and have not joined the compromise amendment, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of our amendment. And that doesn't mean we don't make policies in that sense, because they do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u32	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. I think things should be counted as whole. Here it is true, as Mrs. Kortja says, that this resolution was admitted. And then what happened? Now, what I have already said has happened since this, that in the first place a plan of families was introduced, IV. Family Plan, and the anti-Pural Plan, where they get the demands, or the demands, I don't know, a lot of things. Lehen datu batt eman dut, eta, henera, salburu andreak IV. The family Plana aurkeztu zuenean eman zuen datu bat. Honako hau esan zuen: "93 resolutions were adopted in this monographic plenary; 73 are included or included in the plan, as formulated as principles, measures or values, and several of the resolutions are reflected in the guiding principles of the plan, such as, for example, the resolution on incorporating the principle of the best interests of the child into the definition of public policies. "Resolutions aimed at reconciliation, promoting the situation of family units with greater difficulties or care for unprotected children, among others, are reflected in the measures designed in the plan. It should be noted that 20 initiatives have not been included in this plan for the following reasons: three resolutions, because the content contained therein is not the competence of the Basque administrations; nine, because the content contained therein is not the subject of a family plan; six, because the definition was too concrete or too generic to include them in a plan; and two, which are not a resolution as such, but must be taken as statements by Parliament." Where's the little letter here, Mrs. Kotja's? Where's the little letter here? Where's the little letter here?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u34	Please be quiet. Mrs. Kortja's, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u35	So you can't say it clearer. Yeah, what happened? Well, you presented another proposal, legally by your consent, because you've found a resolution which has not exactly been executed as it appeared. But what route did you take? You've done a lot of harmony here, what's your route? When I asked you for a medium, what was the plan for the deal? 'There's no way for the agreement,' because here there's an agreement that's not met. And the way to harmony is always, if you like. What was to be done? Well, that's what I'd say in the bottle, what was to be done? It was possible that IV should be asked for. To insert the family into this plan, what it was saying or what it required, and what is not in the theory in this Family Plan, could have been done too, but it has not been tried to do that. You said how do I understand cooperation? I understand cooperation, first of all, when you speak plainly, and then you acknowledge that I have spoken openly and, yes, quite frankly. And the second, when I have been employed in the will of agreement, and have always been, and myself in particular, I think I have always been open. Mrs. Arana, you were talking about inability to dialogue, you were talking about politics without data. It gives me the impression that you have no idea. Mrs Kortajarena herself, in her first speech, made a brief review of the whole evaluation, where the data are, if you want, I can send it to you. But there is one thing that, look, now that no one hears us I'm going to tell you: I'm especially upset that I'm being treated with this tone of moral superiority, in which it seems that the history of democracy has been waiting for you, to dignify even the situation of women, conciliation, co-responsibility, etc. Look, I'm neither a liberal feminist with a Basque label, nor anything, I'm a Basque nationalist, in Basque abertzale, ball point, and if you want another day, when you have more time, I'll give you content what that means. Mrs. Garrido, man, says, "betebeharrak ez dituela bete Gobernu honek", non-compliance with electoral promises, man, look at me at least since Mr. Urkullu was president of the Euzkadi Buru Batzar, I attended many of Mr. Urkullu's rallies, and that day he said that, because it must be that I did not attend. But, anyway, don't anchor yourself in the III Plan, we're already in the IV. We are in the IV, and that economic endowment that Mr Urkullu was able to make in that election promise... Look, the current plan is endowed with 1.7 billion – for the data that we have in our power – for 1.7 billion, in an inter-institutional plan, of which 1.2 billion corresponds to the Department of Social Affairs of this Government, and 286 million are dedicated to the issue that brings us here today. I mean, probably, even regardless of whether the time frames might not be met, regardless of that, I think with the plan we have in hand...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u36	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u37	... With that we should continue to work, we have more than fulfilled even those electoral promises to which you always make so much reference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u38	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The discussion's over and we're gonna vote for EH Collect and the middle-direction signed together by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u39	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 8; rivals,66; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u40	Integer correction not allowed. We'll next vote for a full correction signed by the Basque Socialists and the Eucabertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u41	Since it's a draw, we'll vote again. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u42	As a tie maintains, we'll leave it for the next round meeting. Second point on the subject list: "Mution, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, introduced together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos, the Visfer of Udai on the sobic development of the Reservation. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Becerra, to introduce and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. 89. here in the year, in this Parliament, two historical decisions were made. It was 30 years ago and next January 6th. These historical resolutions were, on the one hand, that we decided by a people, and by a law, to protect a valuable range of nature, like the Ural, and, on the other hand, that we decided to protect it not only by nature but by the eternal activities, culture, history, and traditions of man. And, being historical, we must say today, after 30 years, that it's time to confirm the commitment to this legislature. Today, on account of our plan, we must confirm that our motion is on the one hand necessary to protect and guard the environment, we must admit that this is a scandalous role, and, on the other hand, we must confirm that we make a permanent basis for the development of the region by protecting the environment. Yesterday was International Environment Day and it is a good time – it is the best time in our opinion – to strengthen the commitment of this Parliament, not only with the protection of the environment, but with a decision that was taken in this Parliament almost 30 years ago, which was to declare the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve, to protect not only its natural values, but also its human values. And, 30 years later, we consider precisely why, it is a good time to talk about the socio-economic development of the Urdaibai region, to talk about the PADAS, which, for those who do not know, is the Plan for the Harmonization and Development of Socio-economic Activities that governs a biosphere reserve. A PADAS whose latest version was completed in 2015, and the new one will begin to be developed in this first semester, according to information received from the Government, but the last evaluation that was made on this PADAS was in 2007, 12 years ago. Our group believes that Urdaibai needs a PADAS. It needs a socio-economic development plan to achieve two objectives: on the one hand, to break a preconceived idea, and I would say that even malicious, that protecting the environment prevents doing anything in that place that has been protected. And, on the other hand, and even more importantly, to reverse the decline of the traditional economic activities that have been taking place in Urdaibai – for millennia, I would say – and that today they suffer an accused decline. In my question to Counsellor Tapia I gave some data which I will briefly review: from the year 89, when the reserve was declared, until 10 years later, the percentage of cultivated land fell by 50%, the percentage of animals fell by 40% only in 10 years. From the year 86 to 2016 the number of ships registered in Bermeo has increased from 140 to only 20 and, in addition, these 20 are dedicated to the fishing of the species with less commercial value such as, for example, the verdel. And what about forest management? We have 50% of Urdaibai tree area covered with Pinus radiata Pinus radiata I could go on like this with industry and other sectors, but I think that what we are interested in is focusing on the future. The stomach has a future, but we have to build that future. We have to build the foundations to build that future, so we have to put a new PADAS in motion. The stomach is alive, but we want it to be alive in the future, and we need to encourage permanent development. Some activities must be under this permanent development, for instance, the ecological farming and blacking, fishing, an artist, a permanent wood-making industry for transforming first-matters; and the means of transport must be organized, and the clean energy must be encouraged and the waste must be recycled in order to build this future. And we have to change something, because what we've done so far hasn't been enough. Something has to change so that Urdaibai remains a living space and not a kind of theme park. And for that it is not enough to promote tourism. I would say that it is not only not enough, but it is also not advisable. And we will not get involved here in the pernicious effects of mass tourism. But what is essential is to recover traditional activities, not to do the usual thing, or not just to do the usual thing, but to do the usual thing in another way, in a more sustainable, more modern way, to improve the capacity of those traditional activities to adapt to the new times. In my 10-day question to Councilwoman Tapia, she said that Euskadi is not understood without her rural and coastal world. And I added to him: and neither without his environment. And she said we have to maintain a rural, living, diverse and active environment. And I complement: rural, living, diverse, active and sustainable. This requires a balance between protecting and living, between the living human being and the nature that must be protected. And to understand that, while the environment is not a static value, it is also not possible to do everything in all places. And it is true that the environment cannot be a garden, but Urdaibai cannot be understood as the garden that surrounds the villa we have built. For this reason, a commitment is needed between all the institutions to protect a natural space that is important per se. After all, the population of Umibai doesn't care who handles the reserve, but how he runs it. And what the population of the Umibai expects is the commitment of all institutions to enable and finance permanent development, and, on the other hand, to protect valuable sites, as well as to the organization of the state and of the preponderance of the first sector. Two years ago, we decided we needed a PADAS. It was in this law, and now we're talking about how we're going to do that PADAS. PADAS is necessary, we have already decided that, and we voted unanimously in this Parliament in this same legislature two years ago. The issue is how to develop this PADAS with the help of all economic and social actors, strengthening citizen support and also strengthening institutional commitment. That must be the compromise, that is the subject of our motion today, and that should be the spirit of the decision that this Parliament takes today, as it was 30 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u44	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u45	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. The initiative that Mr Becerra brings us today from the hands of Elkarrekin We can not only talk about the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve, but also about the conception that each of the groups present here have of the future of our society. I believe that everyone here can share that achieving a sustainable Euskadi must be achieved on the basis of a measured and responsible balance between nature conservation, our natural heritage, the conservation of our cultural values and the socio-economic development of a prosperous Basque country, where the future well-being of society as a whole is guaranteed in the face of threats as real as climate change. And I would like to recall that with these sustainability parameters, the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve was created, within the framework of the biosphere reserves, with three clearly defined objectives: one, nature conservation; the other, sustainable development; and logistical support, referring to scientific knowledge and education for sustainability. The Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve is therefore a laboratory of experiences to achieve the balance between conservation and sustainable development, ultimately to improve the living conditions of people living in the area. Mr Arriola's Department, from the beginning of this legislature, has worked to reorient its work in this regard. Many things have been done, far from being a theme park and a place only linked to tourism. The reality is clear: before, a few years ago, we could talk about conflictivity in the area, and not today. A process of participation was attempted in search of consensus, but it was true that it was not achieved. There was a clear conflict in the handling of three administrative disputes by people and bodies as different as a forestry association, an environmental organization and a particular, disputes that are already resolved at the moment. And, above all, we encountered a bad image for some people within the Urdaibai Reserve, which had not succeeded, it is true, to be seen as an instrument generating well-being and wealth, and indeed as an office that some understood more administratively. The challenge has been faced by the Basque Government, trying to provide measurement, project and search for social and political consensus in something that was supposed to be complicated. And, in this regard, I would like to point out that on 22 June 2017 a non-legislative proposal was unanimously adopted in this House concerning the suspension of the amendment of the PRUG, which was immediately transferred to the reserve. The Plenary of the Patronage approved the agreement in session on 28 June, and on 14 July 2017 the Order of the Councillor of the Environment, Territorial Planning and Housing was promulgated, by which it was agreed to initiate the procedures of modification of the PRUG of the biosphere reserve, thus fulfilling the parliamentary mandate. Since then, work has been done on a series of reports that enabled a legal, urban and technical diagnosis of the actual situation of the reserve and its scope of responsibility. This has led to the conclusion of a proposal for a decree amending the PRUG, which was submitted and adopted with maximum consensus in the Plenary of the Patronate on 3 May and which is currently under administrative procedure. This Government is therefore working on the implementation and commitments made. Mr Becerra, you were entering your motion, and at your time in the previous inquiry, in the PADAS, and, as you were previously answered in writing, I would like to highlight some actions that have already been launched. With regard to the strategic objective, a rural area developed in its multifunctionality, production and marketing, training and employment, the role of women and, in general, everything that affects the quality of life, I would like to say that the Governing Council, held in Urdaibai on 4 June, approved the draft decree regulating subsidies for financial compensation for the loss of financial profitability in the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve and its proper environmental management through custody agreements or compensation decrees. The project, in short, promotes the change of alloctone or fast-growing species to medium or long-term growth leafy in restocking for use or restoration. This is a deal this week. With regard to the availability of a tourism sector that advances in management, structuring and external promotion and whose benefits are materialized in work, the service of the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve, with the help of the Urremendi Rural Development Association and with the Bizkaia Provincial Council, which is one of the institutions involved, has embarked on the path for its accession as Euskadi's first protected area to the European Charter of Sustainable Tourism. It is not just an area linked to tourism, but it is also true that there is this European Charter on Sustainable Tourism, which I believe is important. All this, through a technical table and a permanent forum of participation. The foundations that we hope will conclude with the achievement of the above-mentioned Charter have been established. With regard to the optimisation of infrastructure towards attracting activities that are in line with the development model of the area and that integrate it with other areas, the implementation of the last section of the pedestrian route, which was also somewhat demanded by the neighbours, has been initiated. In addition to all this, we believe that the reserve needs to have a new PADAS, as you have said, and the implementation of the diagnosis and the proposals for work, which we all hope will be completed by the end of 2020, in compliance with the commitments, has already been put in place. At this point, we believe that the importance of public participation in these processes must be highlighted, but we would also like to highlight the role of the Reserve Board itself, as well as that of the Reserve Cooperation Council. Because already the law of Urdaibai, of which you told us, promulgated in 1989, created this Patronage as a governing body of the reserve, consisting of representatives of the Basque Parliament, the Basque Government, the Foral Diputation of Bizkaia, the municipalities of the region and the State Administration, as well as representatives of the Man and Biosphere Programme of UNESCO and the University of the Basque Country, representatives of ecological and conservation associations of the area of the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve and of associations of Euskadi with an accredited trajectory in the study and protection of the environment, and by the conservative director of the reserve himself. Therefore, when we ask for participation in what has to do with the reservation, I think it is more than accredited that there is indeed participation. Moreover, Decree 164/1995 established the Cooperation Council of the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve, with the aim of establishing channels of participation by representatives of social sectors with an impact on the territory of the Biosphere Reserve, because it was understood that the involvement, not only of the institutions involved, which, of course, should be, but also of those who know and work in the area we are talking about, was important. Here, too, the participatory role of all the social actors in the region, with the incorporation of the company Aranzadi, which also has the help of the Department of the Environment, has been sought. In addition to all this, and as we have already started on the occasion of the ESC, we will design the process of participation around forums or tables, because the department believes so, with groups of experts who consider themselves more effective in incorporating all the voices of the region that allow us to have a new PADAS, but not only new, but also effective. In addition to this, work is under way on the plan for interpretation, research, training and education for sustainability, where the role of the scientific and research community is crucial to enriching the management and decision-making for the sustainable development of the Urdaibai Reserve. Therefore, from the Socialist Group we believe that the interest and commitment of this Government to the reservation is clear. Much has been done in this House to equip it with what it required and significant economic investments have been made. I think I have been describing the actions that have been carried out in this legislature and I think we could interpret that we are working and dealing with this issue. We therefore welcome the agreement reached with Mr Becerra, who proposed the original initiative and, of course, we reaffirm this Government's commitment to the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve, recognizing that there are still outstanding issues, but also acknowledging that work has been done to continue progress on aspects that are true to have certain shortcomings. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u46	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u47	Congressmen, ma'am, good morning. We have a deal and I won't be long, I'll give you a couple of bolts. Lehena, let me apostilize you, Mr Becerra, because you mention the key to sustainability, which is about what this point and the PADAS are about, but sustainability has or should have three legs: it has the key to environmental sustainability, which is perhaps what you wanted to refer to; but it also has two other parts, two added pillars, which are economic sustainability and social sustainability, because we are talking about public policies, and the best way to ensure that public policies survive in time is that they have a budget that accompanies them. And it happens in Urdaibai that we have not yet come up with that formula that combines the three legs of this sustainability key and that does not combine, does not even fully match respect for the environment with economic development, with economic growth, and, therefore, it is a formula in which we must continue to work. I would not say so much that the conflictivity in the past is due to the lack of measure of previous governments, but rather, first, to the fact that it is a partly politicized conflict, which I believe must be admitted, and secondly, because it is a formula that we have not yet found. We need to find it, we are not talking about 15 or 20 political leaders of that Vizcay PNV that you assume as a scarecrow, but, well, there is still a lot of work to do, technologies that will have to come and global trends that we will have to take advantage of, for example, you mention, in tourism, in the agroforestry sector, etc. But I believe that the Basques can give the breast in this matter, because we were already able 60 years ago to illuminate a model, an economic ecosystem that was and remains absolutely disruptive, as it was that of the cooperatives of Mondragon, which was a model that previously did not exist, based on values, based on our civil society, on the network that we still have strong in Euskadi of civil society, and which stood on the two pillars, two of the three pillars of sustainability, which were economic sustainability and social sustainability. And it was, and has been, and is still being, and will be in the future, a model, this yes, that revolutionizes and changes our way of life. El PADAS ha cumplicdo mouth 20 años. Yo he poddo leer enos úllimus días un libro hreditado en el 99 ÇU que habla de un taller gaudiativo. In 1997, the workshops were built around a group of people, "The futures of the month: "Futeros de Usdai, entre sleepable y sleepable." And in it it is now 20 years ago, but I think he has the whole diary, there are two ideas mentioned, and I think they are interesting. The first idea is, that when this dispute is made, there are always four parties, people are divided into four parties; On the one hand, there are concertists, in this case I put Podemos and probably EH in this group together, the rurapists. And I shall not place myself in any of the four groups, I think we ought to do one more thing; that when we see the photograph of a short-term or middle-term period, and examine the measures, it often happens that there is no consensus. Campbium The challenges are global, those mentioned before: Tourism, farm, first sector, education, public transports, environmental... These are no challenges of Umibai, they are our challenges in society, they are the challenges of all society, and of all the world, and there are two ways of resisting them: the first is progressive, and there is an advanced way to face it, and it is the tenedity in the world that tries to bring them here, try to keep a pleasant context here to fertilize them, because there is an organic food in the bogan, so let's go up to that train, if agroturism exists, let's go up to that train. It's not just a matter of organizations bringing them up from below. And there is a second way to deal with the issue, which is a little defensive; if the former was the carrot, this would be more the stick. The defensive: there are two ways to focus on it. The first is to drown with a flood of subsidies all the productive fabric of Urdaibai, which we can do because there are 46,000 inhabitants, we could do, we have a population of 2,100,000, a certain economic health, we could drown from subsidies all the productive fabric. But it is not what we want, because if we want a model to export to the rest of Euskadi, to the rest of the world, which is a reference, that does us no good. And secondly, it's legally suffocating any kind of private initiative, spending a little bit of a break. And given that 90% of the land in Urdaibai is privately owned, yes or no, we have to bear in mind that private initiative does not flourish among legal asphyxiations, we have to promote conditions under which initiatives can move forward, and people can lead a life project without having to go out. From our group we will continue to work to achieve this balance, new technologies that will accompany you, the balance between social, economic and environmental sustainability, the three pillars that I mentioned at the beginning, will probably also have to come. Balance between the stick and the carrot, to make Urdaibai a reference for the world, as it was and is already being our cooperative system, unique in the world. And because we want the inhabitants of Urdaibai to be the first to enjoy that Urdaibai of the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u48	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The next round of the group that has not announced any corrections, Lord Damboreea, is the representative of the Basque Potion Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. I didn't really intend to intervene much because I saw Mr Becerra's motion saying "how beautiful Urdaibai is", I saw the government's amendment saying, "No, let's amend, Urdaibai is much more beautiful", and I said, well, I guess we'll all agree and say "how beautiful Urdaibai is". We already have the transaction that says "How beautiful Urdaibai is." But of course, hearing you, Mr Becerra in the speech you gave us, I will tell you that Urdaibai is very nice, but if you scratch a little, just a little, if you look under the water you will see that it is practically a desert of sand. 30 years ago, before the Biosphere Reserve Act was passed, there was much more life, without environmentalists, there were no Ecologists in Action saving Urdaibai. No, people there, apparently, were organized quite well and people seemed so good that they said "let's declare it a biosphere reserve." For the past 10 years, the beach of Toña has been banned from bathing due to pollution, I say for comment. Because we can talk, if we scratch a little bit on the ground, about the famous sanitation network. –well, EVA is a joke, the delay of EVA – Urdaibai's sanitation network, how many years have we had? 20? 25? 30? And there it goes, it goes to Portuondo, there under the campsite, it goes out there, it smells when it goes out, it takes advantage when the tide goes down to take it out. Of course, sustainable economic and social development, I do not see development anywhere. To be sustainable, first, there would have to be development, and then we would see if it was sustainable or not sustainable. Development I don't see anywhere. Perhaps the only development I have seen is that part of the Port of Bermeo was made about 20 years ago merchant, for four ships that go there, and traverse with trucks all Urdaibai, along, from Bermeo to Amorebieta. I do not know if it is development, if it is sustainable, it is absurd, it is absurd from my point of view and from our point of view. Sustainable development, raw materials must be transformed. Not five years ago there was a timber company that wanted to expand, it worked well, it gave jobs, it wanted to expand. He was not left, he had to go, he closed; he transformed raw materials, he already transformed them. It says, we have to go back to traditional activities, for example shipyards. There were shipyards in Mundaka, there were shipyards in Bermeo, there was a rather large shipyard in Murueta. No, it's just that it's forbidden to dredge and boats can't leave anymore, because there's no shipyard in Murueta anymore. I don't know if it was Mr. Ibarretxe who said "two thousand years ago he was dredging in that ria, and the Romans were going up and down the ria." There are no more shipyards, the wood transformers are gone, this is sustainable. Look, I can also tell you the actions of the ecologists who, in addition, created jobs, flooded Laida 10 or 12 years ago with sand, to recover some dunes that they said there were, filled with weeds that, filled with rats like dogs, but thank God the sea took it away. It took 15 years, but he took it, and it's back to the way it was, a very good beach. Very good. The problem is not tourism as you say. Those go to Rocadragon. They do their tails there and have a good time. Of course, that is, sustainable development. Well, look, I'm going to tell you: ecologically it's worse than 30 years ago, I'm not going to tell you about all the factories that closed in Gernika, the hatcheries or the armories and all that, or some in Bermeo. Yes, I can tell you that I don't remember any openings. I see that profitable businesses continue to go, because people used to work there, not now. Ask them where they go, where they work. Is this sustainable development? No, no, Now, you tell us, "Urdaibai is still alive." Yeah, he's still alive, but he's dying. He's dying. You can't work there. To live you have to work outside Urdaibai. And the laughter has more and more sand, you know? Look at the mojojones. And this is what is happening there: pollution, no drains and no work. Now, how beautiful Urdaibai is!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u50	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. The representative of EH Collector, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u51	Yes, good noon to all. How beautiful I am, too. I'll thank Mr. Becerra for being behind this initiative. But most of all, from the very beginning of the legislation, we began to cultivate the problems which surround the protection of the Ushadai and Urdai, and to give them a continued course. I, at any rate, have a doubt. Because you said it's time to confirm the engagement because of the World's Day of Environment. I've got the disreparance there. It was made in the course of the PDAS for the Sodiumnomical development time with a large part of it. In the year 1998, it was accepted. It is true that six years later he was allowed to do it more than the law said. The law said in 1989 that in two years' time the PADAS should be accepted. Well, it was nine years later that PDAS left, and I think one of the most important leads of what happened with PADAS came with the evaluation of 2007. This evaluation made it clear that something didn't work. There were 22 different lines of work and executed from them, which were 14% later, only three years later, and from the development proposals there were 98 in the initial PADAS, 26 finished. So back in 10 years, in PADAS, the development of this plan for social development was in no way suitable. Not just quaantitatively, it was given a series of quantum data when the examination took place, but qualimately. Here it was said that one of the main problems had been that there had been a lack of co-ordination between institutions, that there had been no united impulse. We said it in its own time, and it seems to us that the problem still holds, and the whole problem is that the division of Biscare didn't quite agree in his time that this development of the Viistophera was in the hands and hands of the Patrotus, and that there was no real serious impulse. However, after this evaluation in 2007, another proposal came, whether this economic development really came, for I think I shall reply later to Mr. d'Artovandon, that he has shown a considerable ignorance of nature or environmental preservation, and that some contempt here is not understood or refused to understand that the spirit of the PADAS is not the spirit of nature. For, in the end, PADAS is somehow: We all know that when environment or area is protected, and when it is carefully guarded to maintain and continue nature's values, this puts certain limits in the uses, and is made to compensate for it for a number of other plannings for the somnological development, and PDAS must be placed there. So the matter is extremely important, because in other places, where they are not protected, there is no possible type of development in these places. And this is where it happened, and I believe that Mr. Bareas is right, somehow didn't guess how to combine the maintenance of nature values with economic development and social development in these 30-35 years. And Mr. Becerra has put the data on the table. It's what's going on. As I was saying, in the year 2009, another attempt was made, and there was a system of patient development in January, 2009, 2015, and in that case it was foreseen that the strategy should be placed on the table with 533 million Euros to develop it as a whole, and then there have been different changes of government, but there has been a long way out of it. Now, seeing that this development has been somewhat recent, it is clear that we can here confirm proposals and commitments, all we want, but if we don't put up the deadlines and numbers here, we do not do much. And I think, rather than commit, it's time to ask for accounts. Urte osoa, osoa osoa gaiarekin lanean aritu eta gero, 2017ko ekainean aho batez onartu genuine hemen proposed bat, eta hor bazegoen puntu bat garapen sozioekonomikorako programrentzako bear argia. Hau esaten zuen, hitzez hitz: "Parliament urges the Government to concreteise the current challenges of the reserve in the economic, social, environmental and cultural fields, through a participatory process, through the updating of the Programme for the Harmonization and Development of Economic Activities provided for in the law, using objective and consensual indicators for this purpose". Jaitsi da hemen Natalia Rojo andrea, eta saiatu da, ba beno, Rajoyk katalanen inguruan esaten zuen bezala, "the government does things, the government does things and is very laborious", bathe bi urte beranduago, hemen ez da aurrerapenik egon, inondik inora. That is to say, if there was an evaluation in 2007, a renewed PADAS and reevaluating with a member of the process and then reevaluating it again two years later... Where was the part of the process, Miss Rojo, to renew PADAS? Where's the evaluation? What's the commitment? The questions Mr. Becerra has made to the Government, and in Arrian's answers, I think it is very evident; The answer is, that there will be no new PADAS in his commission for this term, because he says at most at the end of 20th year, that is, that the law may come after the end of the law. But these dates are not trusted in his answers, because they are according to certain decisions which he ought to receive from the patricians. So we don't have any PDAS evaluations, we don't have any members of the process, and we don't have any deadlines and no previsions. So I think it's all right to say, two years ago, Miss Rojo, in your own words, "vamos a abri el debatæ real necesita state reserva," but two years later it's not fair to say that we're still engaged. I mean for the time being to think about it, because today and here two things can happen: or, as you say, it was an interest, but then there was an impossibility. So this Department of Environment has not given any impulse to commitments which are unanimously granted to all of us. I think it's only two years, that is, we've been patient and had a responsible opposition, because we've tried to get to great agreements in time, and we're there. But two years later, we can't come here and say, as Mr. Damborena said, "qué bonito es Urdai" because what will be accepted two years ago was already accepted. So, I don't know how long you're asking for a project for two years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u52	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing on the answers, Mr. Becerra, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u53	Well, I'll have to start my reply by denying something I haven't said. I have not said that Urdaibai is beautiful, that it is; I have said that it is valuable. Valuable. And that that value is not being used. I have been the first to say in this rostrum that Urdaibai is not doing well economically. Now, what I needed to hear was that the blame was on the ecologists. That's the last of it. Mr Damborenea, when have the ecologists ruled in the Bizkaia Diputation, in the Basque Government, in the municipalities of Urdaibai? When did they rule? If Urdaibai is dirty, if Urdaibai has no sanitation, it is partly because there is a Ministry of Environment and Coasts, which had the responsibility for sanitation, already since the time of Aznar and before, and they have not put a single hard, nor has Costas put it, nor put URA in its moment, and 20 years later things start to be done. If it is dirty Urdaibai is, to a large extent, by some politicians of the PP, by others not, because Mr Aldecoa, at the General Councils of Bizkaia, defended Urdaibai many times, with much more enthusiasm even than some ecologists, and it is a pity that you do not go that way, but good. Of course, companies have been destroyed. But why don't you say why they've been destroyed? Inama could not be expanded in Muxika, but Inama had requested the lands of Amorebieta, of Boroa, which then the Bizkaia Diputation reserved to a certain Lopez of Arriortua to build a car plant. Inama didn't want to continue in Muxika, I preferred to go to Boroa, to Amorebieta. If he did not continue in Euskadi, if he did not continue in Urdaibai, it was not only because of the problems of the Urdaibai Reserve, it was because he could not move to larger lands. You know that, just like I do. And there are shipyards: Murueta. Murueta shipyards are still in Murueta making boats. There are shipyards, and boats can be made in many places, can be made in Murueta, can be made in Mundaka, can be made in Bermeo. When a river is dredged, it happens that sometimes the problem is not the boats that stop building, but that a wave disappears, the famous left wave of Mundaka, which is the only left wave in the world, who want to surf all the surfers who come to Mundaka, and the drama of the Urdaibai dredging, from the Urdaibai ria, is not that they leave more or less boats, but that all the surfers who come to leave the money to Mundaka go somewhere else, as you like to say. And I think that even Mr. Oster knows that there are several obstacles under this subject and that the Socialist Party is not the least obstacles. But I also accept what Mr. Oster says: PADAS was approved, two years ago, we may have to wait another two years, but part of it is necessary, and that is why we wish to condition the involvement of this motion. Mr Arruabarrena says that there are problems between the four sensibilities, the conservationists, the ruralists, those who advocate more communications and the economists. I would also advocate for those of expansive urbanism, the fifth sector, which you have not mentioned. I don't know if you're putting yourself in the expansive urbanism, but they're also a problem. You say that 90% of the land is privately owned and that is true. I have referred in my speech to the fact that everything cannot be done everywhere, which does not mean that there must be no flexibility. Forest owners may decide to plant Pinus radiata Pinus radiata All this must be taken into account and it must be known that sustainable development has not been done, and precisely because it has not been done perhaps we are in this situation now. Sustainable development must have the commitment of all. What I would say to Mrs Red is: you have to highlight the role of the Patronage, right, but in the Patronage there are all the institutions. The question is how the institutions go to that Board, whether it's a propellant or a restraint. And maybe that's where the biggest problem comes from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u54	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Becerra spoke in his first speech and, in addition, Mr Otero made some mention of the need to ratify compromise on the Urdaibai issue. I believe that if something is clear, because, moreover, it is an issue on which I have always been the spokesman in my group, it is that the Socialist Group has been in all the agreements that have to do with the Urdaibai Reserve, in all, in all, and in some with a decisive role. And I will answer Mr Damborenea: sanitation network. It is true, it is true what you have said, it is true that there are pollution problems. I think it was last legislature when we attended a visit to the Urdaibai area. We were able to see what was there and we are not going to deny evidence, but from there we will have to recognize the economic investment that this Government has made in what has to do with the sanitation network. All phases are being completed, and in October the most decisive phase in terms of sanitation in Urdaibai was completed. We can talk about millions of euros, 49 million euros committed that are being implemented, plus the 35 million euros that the Basque Government has been investing since 2003. Therefore, things pending, yes; need to continue to act, yes; but, man, we will also have to recognize what has been done. And he was telling us, I think it was Mr Otero, that the government comes here to say that he does things. It is true, you will have to acknowledge that we have come to talk about the PADAS, I think I have explained in my first speech all of the things that this government has put in place. He has acknowledged the commitment, he has acknowledged that he will work on participation, because it is already being done, and there is talk of decoordination in institutions. But if all the institutions involved, in addition to those that are not part of the institutions, are working to make this happen. It must be recognized that what has to do with the Urdaibai Reserve has shortcomings and there are many things in it. They were telling us about a commitment to participation, it's just that it's being made. Mr. Otero told us we didn't talk about deadlines, but, what do you mean, no? If there is a commitment to the new PADAS that has begun to work on the reports necessary for the realization of a diagnosis, and I have said that in 2020 it is intended to be fulfilled. What do you mean, we're not talking about deadlines? What do you mean we don't talk about concrete facts and things aren't being done? Man, I believe that when an agreement has been reached with Mr Becerra it is, first, because the Basque Government understood and understands that it is an issue on which we need to reach agreements among all, because, moreover, the region is a very plural region, with which I believe that it has worked well and I believe that they are able to recognize the commitments made and the fulfilment of these same commitments. And, as I say, it is true that many things remain to be done. It is true that it is often difficult to reach agreements when all the institutions involved are not always of the same colour, and not always the fault or responsibility comes from them. Let us not talk about guilt, but, as far as the responsibility of the Basque Socialist Party in Urdaibai is concerned, sometimes in the opposition and today in the government, I think that some of us have done things right and have never changed our minds. And, of course, this parliamentarian – if not, let's go to the hemerotheques – what she has always said with Urdaibai, and where she has always put the signature. By the way, I think EH Bildu was usually always behind as well. I think it is fair to recognise also when some of us are betting on some issues and we are constantly betting on whether we are in the government or the opposition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u56	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u57	Yes, perhaps, Mr. Otero, you've read your PDAS evaluation a little quickly. First of all, because I've seen more smiling faces myself, when they've been tested graphically, but especially because PADAS' evaluation had been done a few years ago, and some things have been done since. And I would classify the measures that are taken in two parts. On the one hand, the measures that are 100 percent in the hands of the organizations, that is, when the public investment is 100%. And on the other hand, when there is a private public investment, that is to say, private institutions, where private persons have a hand in it. Eta nik eztabaidari ez diot muzin egingo, and also mentioned Mr Damborenea the issue of sanitation which is one of the first cases, in which 100% of the budget is public and, well, I believe that first of all it is necessary to recognize that, although the charity in that evaluation of the PADAS – I say the charity because, for those who do not know it, it is an evaluation, let's say, graphic – although the charity is, well, neither happy nor sad, it is in that intermediate state, it is true, and it is fair to acknowledge that in the last 15 years they have invested 85 million euros for a population of 46,000 inhabitants. Yes, it is true that there is a certain geographical dispersion and it is a large region, but it is fair to admit that EUR 85 million has been allocated. It is also true that around 85 million or 100 million remain to be invested, but, in the changes to be made with the incorporation of Busturialdeko Ur Partzuergoa into the Bilbao-Bizkaia, it is possible that they can be made more quickly from a more efficient management, from a structure with more resources, once Busturialdeko Ur Partzuergoa is integrated into the Bilbao-Bizkaia. And, Mr Damborenea, in this regard, I sincerely share your concern about the drift of the productive fabric in the region of Busturialdea, but I would ask you for some consistency with the previous speeches and the way in which you have had in the past, because you were about to overthrow the pre-PRUG, which is the Urdaibai Management Plan. And precisely, not to make it more flexible, but to make it even more rigid, so we have a certain agreement on this issue. In the future I hope to discuss with you and reach agreements with you, because it will surely be easier than with your counterpart, won't it? That you're not listening to me. Finally, Mr Becerra, you have made a somewhat treacherous approach. He says: "And when have the ecologists ruled in Urdaibai?". Look, they've never ruled, but conservationists, because I make a difference, environmentalist is the one who fights for the environment, conservationist is the one who doesn't want to touch the environment. And an area populated by 46,000 people and with industry, not from now on, for 2,000 years, Mr Damborenea has said, cannot be left intact; yes, the core zone, yes, the value zone, of greater environmental value, but the rest, the perimeter zone, of course, must be touched, and there are no ecologists, there are often conservationists who do what they do is put sticks on the wheels of progress. And this has happened, in addition to the politicization of speech and strategies in the area that I denounced in my first intervention. We feel comfortable with the Government's course of action over the past four years. In the interpellation Mrs Tapia mentioned the 177 measures, the empowerment of the industrial soil, above all the redensification of the industry, the port of Bermeo, the road connection, which is also a pending project, for which it will possibly require financing from the outside, because they are huge quantities and it is difficult to do so in the next four years. The renewal of the Gernika market, the modernization of the bassura fleet. There are many small, large measures that will have to be done one by one, with a lot of work and, of course, in order to find that formulation that we have not yet found and that will serve in the future, we are convinced, as a reference for the rest of Euskadi and perhaps for the rest of the world as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u58	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u59	Mr Becerra, one thing is serious environmentalists and another city or urban ecologists, who are telling others what they have to do and how they have to do it, but then they there in case they don't stay to live. He says, "When have the ecologists ruled?". Hey, since the establishment of the Urdaibai Patronage, which is the Urdaibai Government, they have been in the Urdaibai Patronage since that day for 30 years. So don't tell me stories. Inama: "He was offered to go to Boroa in Amorebieta". That's outside Urdaibai, ah, of course it doesn't matter, of course, but are we talking about progress, working in Urdaibai, or are we talking about working outside Urdaibai? And Inama didn't want to go there. Inama wanted to be in Urdaibai, to expand in Urdaibai, but where he was was not fit. I couldn't fit, I had the tracks on the train, it was impossible, I needed another place. And it wasn't given to him in Urdaibai. He was told, "If you want, you're going to Boroa." Forget about Arriortua and the cars, that this was a long time ago. There were no cars, no Lopez de Arriortua there anymore. Please, that's what we're talking about from the beginning. Here he thinks: no, to work, out. Are we really talking about sustainable development? Well, it starts with development. Well, it tells me that the dredging of the ria is loading Mundaka's wave. Listen, let me know the wave of Mundaka has existed all my life and has drenched the laugh all my life. But what ecological arguments do you buy? Who? Step over there. And sanitation, Mrs Red and Mr Arruabarrena, I recognize that many things are being done, but listen, look at the absurdity of the situation. 15 years ago it was ordered to close the septic wells of the houses to connect them to a network that was not finished, but was in the process of being made, okay? And from there he pours himself into the reindeer. Yes, I know the works take a long time, but, Mr Becerra, these works are Basque competition. They're not state, they're Basques. The State was charged with some of the Upper Nervion, which was Basque competence, to declare it of general interest and to pay it by the State. Let's not get confused, huh? And if you're such an environmentalist, the first thing you'd have to worry about is whether it's dirty or not, whether it's dirty or not. I mean, because I didn't hear it. He says, "No, I said it's not going well." I'll tell him it's wrong. It's not that it's not good, it's bad. It's wrong. I tell you there is less life than before being a reserve, under the water and above the water. In any case, don't worry, because we will vote that Urdaibai is very nice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u60	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. The Basque Country, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u61	Yes, thank you. Mrs Red, if in the end it is not a question of me denying you the will that you have had or the will that the Socialist Party has had. What I am saying is that we are at the end of the third season of this parliamentary term, that we have been discussing the subject throughout the first, that two years ago the amendment negotiated with you was approved, and that two years later we have nothing on the table. And this goes hand in hand with the issue of the evaluation of the PADAS. Because we said that there was an evaluation of the 2007 PADAS, and Mr. Arruabarrena has struck me that he used some data on what was going on there. The ones I said are real. It's true that there are others I haven't said. And I was told that since 2007, when the evaluation was carried out, things have improved today, once again. All right. I say: there was an evaluation in 2007 that could be measured, what had been progressed, what had not been progressed and what was needed could be quantified. Where is the current evaluation? Where's the PADAS? I can't say they've improved things. This is Rajoy's "government does things" joke again. Governments from 2007 to today have done things. What we want to know is what, how many, what percentage of implementation PADAS has and what percentage it needs, and how that can be quantified in money and time. What cannot be done is to take for granted the plan that Mr Arriola has, when the exact answer is that it is planned to start the diagnosis and proposals of the new PADAS in mid-2019 and to finish by the end of 2020 with the legislature completed, and also to say that they are approximate dates, as the deadlines depend on the agreements reached in the Plenary of the Patronage. I mean, I insist, we have no evaluation, we do not know how the level of socio-economic development of the area is. We know from that sustainable development strategy that was attempted in 2009 that things have not started, that the economic provisions that were needed have not arrived and that in this legislature we will not have a socio-economic development programme in Urdaibai. That is what is clear in the Government's responses after what you have said. That the government does things? He'll do things. That what was asked two years ago and agreed here among all of us is not going to be done? I think it's obvious at this point. And, in this sense, it is time for results to be taken into account, not for commitments to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u62	Thank you, Mr. Otero. End of discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the middle-point that Eucators have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 55; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstain, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u63	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentarian People of Euscal, the attention of the Eukadian patients with cancer. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Potula team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, good morning again. Well, I would like to begin this intervention by thanking all the organizations and associations working in this area, in the field of childhood cancer. Not only the work, but also the experiences that have brought us, their contributions about the hard reality of the treatment of children with cancer. But, at the same time, this reality is faced with a great dose of illusion, hope and, above all, with the force that these boys and girls transmit to overcome diagnosed cancer. I would also like to quote here, to start this speech, specifically to the associations of Basque, Aspanafoa, Aspanovas and Aspanogi, the associations working in the three historical territories. We have a National Cancer Strategy, which already tells us about a specific strategic line for the care of children and adolescents. We have recently approved in Euskadi the Oncological Plan of Euskadi 2018-2023, which defines areas of action in the oncological care. The objective of this plan is to increase survival, obtain higher rates of cure, higher rates, and improve the quality of life of survivors It must be said that, in addition, there are more and more reasons for hope in the treatment and cure of different cancers. Because, without a doubt, science is moving forward, and I would like to highlight, above all, the figure of survival in the detection of childhood cancers, which is almost 80% and is almost total in certain tumors. This plan refers to the care of pediatric patients diagnosed with cancer, and points out the need for a multidisciplinary approach that includes different aspects, such as health, psychological, social and educational aspects. It should be said that childhood cancer has no possible prevention, but there are factors that clearly affect its healing and survival: early diagnosis, early diagnosis and appropriate treatment in the corresponding care units. Children with cancer in Euskadi are given this care in two reference centers, the University Hospital of Cruces and the Donostia Hospital, which have organizational structures with specific characteristics, so they are reference hospitals. I also want to mention here the professionals who work day by day in these units and who try to cure these children and who also do, try to make life easier throughout the treatment. Above all, because we know that they are excellent professionals. Scientific evidence in pediatric oncology also tells us that hospitals with the highest volume of activity and the most specialized are those that have the highest chances of success in the care of children. As I said, the recently approved Oncological Plan states in objective 26 that progress must be made in improving interdisciplinary care for pediatric and adolescent patients, through professional teams aimed at giving such care, as I said, integral, integrated and coordinated, centralized in these two hospitals, which act in network. But, in addition to having been talking to these associations for many years, we have received specific demands in the appearances in this Parliament concerning certain shortcomings or shortcomings which these units may currently present in relation to certain areas which have become small and, at some times, also in relation to staffing, which may be insufficient. I want to highlight a fact, which is of the unit of the University Hospital of Cruces, of this reference center, opened in 1989. He started attending 50 cases a year, but now 82 new diagnoses plus 10 relapses are being treated. We are therefore talking about 92 children who are currently being cared for. Almost doubled the number of children who are demanding their care now in this hospital alone. Therefore, I think it is logical that both the spaces and the templates can be resized in relation to the professionals who can care for these children, if necessary in this case. When we spoke with the associations, we were left with deficiencies in the day hospitals, in the consultation areas, in the waiting rooms, in the rest rooms, in the meeting areas for health personnel. I am not going to go into these questions, because it is in the appearances, it is in the transcripts; they are very illustrative of the demands and the situation of these units today. I would also like to make a reference to the situation of children with Alava cancer, who are obviously treated at Cruces, as could not be otherwise, but this requires that these children move to Cruces to do the treatments and sessions of the corresponding treatments, tests and controls. And they have moved us that they had a very concrete claim – if possible, and obviously guaranteeing the safety of the whole care process and that it was carried out with absolute guarantees, as it cannot be otherwise, and here, moreover, professionals working with these children will have an essential voice in relation to seeing the feasibility that some of these tests prior to the corresponding treatment, which currently involve or imply a transfer to Cruces, could be carried out in Vitoria. I know that on this subject, too, some action is already being taken by the department and we also want to thank the sensitivity of the department – and the adviser is here – with this particular issue, which is being studied and was another of the requests we requested in our initial proposal. This specific proposal goes to the second point: to consider the possibility that some analyses prior to the relevant treatment session could be carried out in Vitoria with absolute guarantees. On the other hand, we spoke at the point one of the realization of an improvement plan or actions in the reference university hospitals of Cruces and Donostia for pediatric oncology care that includes, among other actions, the adequacy of the infrastructures, as well as the provision of the necessary human resources. In the end it was possible to sign an agreement between all parties, and I wish to thank them on the one hand, on the one hand, for having tried the party in the government, and then, on the other hand, the Podemos and the EH team, for not having introduced any correction, I understood that they were coming to agree with the proposal proposed to them. And in the end, I'm grateful that you'll try the agreement you agreed to. This initiative aims only to advance the care of these children. We are talking about complex attention, attention that has to be integral. And here I also wanted to highlight the impact on families that a child is diagnosed with cancer, and also, not only the impact, which is there and obviously that implies that such comprehensive care has to be given from multiple aspects, but also the importance of parents throughout the healing process, accompanying their children in access to information, and I also want to point out in this intervention the importance of this psychological and social support throughout the treatment process. I'm gonna stay there, because I think it's a reasonable deal. As I said, I would like to thank the groups that support the Government, Mrs Otalora and Mrs Red expressly, for their efforts, and the department, for finally enabling an agreement, which I believe is a step forward. And I also believe that it is also a further reason for the hope of deepening these lines of the Oncological Plan itself and advancing the possibilities of cancer cure, in this case of childhood cancer. And, as I said, thanks also to Elkarrekin Podemos and Bildu, who, moreover, from the beginning agreed with the initiative and did not amend it. So I'm staying here. Besterik gabe, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u65	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u66	Thank you, President, and good morning again to everyone and everyone. The issue that Mrs Garrido brings to us today is one of those issues in which the agreement is almost an obligation for the various parliamentary groups. It is not so much to thank Mrs Garrido for her words of recognition of the effort, but it is true that, after listening to the representatives of the associations of Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, even some parliamentary groups met in the group's own offices, because I do believe that I should be able to reach an agreement in the recognition that, indeed, there are still things in which we can improve, some easier than others: some with an economic endowment or with modifications of the RPT, but there are others that, indeed, respond to the Government's will to be able to continue to humanize cancer, in this case childhood cancer. As I said, we all share the concern for the care of pediatric patients with cancer in Euskadi and, of course, the recognition, as Mrs Garrido said, of organizations and associations working with the families of these children, and also the recognition of professionals who, both in the Hospital of Donostia and in the Hospital of Cruces, carry out their work in a way also recognized by those affected. As I said, on 26 March we attended an appearance of the associations, which, from their point of view and with a really generous tone, raised those shortcomings which they considered urgent to resolve, some which they understood to have come from a long time ago and others which, with the fate of the situations, have been speaking in a clearer way. They recognized the value of the professionals in Osakidetza and valued the attention they received, although it is also true that, as I say, they listed a number of claims that they considered and considered essential. As I said, humanizing the disease is essential for the journey during treatment to be more bearable, and I do believe that Osakidetza and the Basque Government share these requests and, of course, understand that there are many things that are being put on the table so that they can be solved, and some of them were already recognized in the Basque Oncological Plan, which has already been submitted to the parliamentary seat. Although there are few cases of cancer in minors, at the same time being too many, the disease has great relevance in the field of public health for these ages. If we look at the data from all over Spain, childhood cancer is the second leading cause of death in childhood and adolescence, and yet, thanks to the considerable progress made in recent decades, more than 75% of children and adolescents treated with cancer can overcome this disease, and certain specific tumors can be cured almost entirely. In the justification, Mrs. Garrido already tells us about the Oncological Plan 2018-2023, the care model, the care, and, as she said at the beginning, we share the need to continue to act on this issue. We were already talking about that plan and Objective 26 of it in our amendment and it is one of the points agreed with the proposing group. With regard to specific measures and actions, we can say that in the case of the Hospital de Cruces in recent years the number of beds has been expanded, specific spaces have been opened for families and recent reforms have been carried out in the baths for families. Elements to humanize these spaces are constantly included. Space has also been improved for professionals, of which associations and organizations also spoke, and there have also been improvements in paediatric care at home, while some improvements in the rooms are also planned for this summer. And in the Hospital of Donostia it is true that it is different how it is treated, because there they are divided into three different floors, but it is also fair to say that this does not diminish the quality of care offered to children, and recently there have also been reforms in the rooms. As Mrs Garrido said, one of the demands in Álava was to be able to carry out preliminary tests before going to the hospital in Cruces, and the Basque Government is also in this line, as we all know and as the People's Group has explained to us. Obviously more could be done, yes. And work will continue to improve what is deemed necessary. In all that has to do with human resources, the Oncological Plan already talks about this issue, as well as the comprehensive care and quality that we all pursue and for which we work from Osakidetza. I therefore believe that it is important that we have reached this agreement. It is true that the demands were very concrete and covered from the economic and humanitarian sides to some things that we find much easier for some parliamentary groups to carry out, but, of course, we understand that the Department of Health has a clear commitment to humanizing the disease. We recognize from here the intervention that the organizations made in that appearance, because, even living situations as dramatic as the illness of a child with a cancer, I believe that the tone was that of recognition, because they were absolutely generous in the petitions and understood the difficulty that the Administration often has in being able to carry out some of the petitions they posed. Therefore, as I say, we welcome the agreement and, of course, we hope that little by little improvements will be made in the demands made in this case by the organizations and in others that the Government's own Oncological Plan has recognized since its own drafting. So, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u67	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Attalora, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u68	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Today we are discussing an issue that is very sensitizing to all of us, as we are talking about a disease that, when it affects children and adolescents, seems no doubt that all efforts are insufficient for us. What to say when we stand before aitas and mistresses and transfer their experiences and experiences with this disease. We'll probably think little about what we're asked for. So that there's no doubt about it, and above all I'd like to make sure that there's no room for it, I'd like to show the firm commitment to the Eucomide, not only to cancer, but also to the situations in which this disease produces diseases. That's how it's recorded on the Medical Plan. As a result of this commitment, and alienated from the principles of the Health Plan, has prepared the Oncological Plan of Euskadi 2018-2023, which puts the patient and his/her needs at the centre of the system throughout the process of his/her illness, both physical and emotional, giving him/her – or at least trying to give it – an integral response from a multidisciplinary point of view. Horrek plan, sheath, pediatric onkology was jasotzen of the atal zehatz eta bereiztu batan. This highlights the degree of concern and attention given by the Department of Health to these patients and their pathologies, since, both because of the nature of their disease and because of the very reality of these patients – children, girls and adolescents – it is understood that they need a differentiated approach, both in terms of their treatment and in the follow-up of the disease itself. As a result of all this that I am commenting – already pointed out here – a series of structural adaptations have been made in pediatric oncology care, so that these patients and these patients are treated in two reference units located in the hospitals of Cruces and Donostia, with the aim of providing multidisciplinary care and increasing the specialization, experience and quality of service provided. These changes place us, in terms of attention, at the level of European standards in pediatric oncology care, and they also respond to recommendations at the state level, specifically in relation to the issue we are discussing, i.e. standards and recommendations for pediatric cancer care units in childhood and adolescence. Moreover, Osakidetza has participated in the working group that prepared this document, which shows the involvement and interest of the Department of Health in everything that is oriented towards the objective of improvement in pediatric cancer care. In this sense, in these units, since they were implemented, changes and adjustments have been made, and we know that it will follow in this line of continuous improvement. Having said that, we must also ensure that the balance between accessibility, sustainability, equity and sustainability of the system is maintained as key elements in carrying out health planning and maintaining our health system in adequate quality indexes and conditions. Because, obviously, a hospital is a very complex organization that must respond to many patients, many patients, with very diverse and different pathologies and that has multiple and varied units and services and, despite the complexity that it is and the limitation of resources – which must also be said – because it is attempted that both these spaces and services meet the needs of the different pathologies and of the different patients, sick people, so that they are served in the best possible way. Therefore, improvements and adaptations are also being made in these pediatric oncology care units, and this is not a mere statement to make in front of the gallery. I'm not saying it because I am. I have been interested in learning about the different actions that have been carried out, and of course I think it can be said that many things have been done. Significant improvements have been made in order to make progress in adapting these two units in the best possible way. That's not enough? Sure, that's why it's necessary to stay on this continuous improvement line. I am not going to go into detailing them, well if I am going to stay with the most recent, for example, in the Hospital of Donostia, where the five individual rooms that form the hospital of this unit, have recently been reformed, I think they were reopened last April after the reform. Well, the same can be said for the University Hospital of Cruces. Mrs Red has already referred to some of these adjustments, and we are also aware, as I said earlier, that further reforms are planned. With all this I want to highlight the involvement of the Department of Health, of Osakidetza, of those responsible for these reference units, in order to adapt them to the new challenges and needs that are emerging, trying to optimize the different spaces available. I don't think we can doubt it. Of course, our group has no doubt that there is a clear concern on the part of health officials on this issue as well. From the utmost respect and recognition to the complicated reality for these patients, for their families, a reality that undoubtedly requires the best possible care, in the best conditions, we believe that in a progressive way it is walking and advancing in this direction. They go, as I say, making changes to adapt the spaces, to adapt these units to the needs that are emerging, and predicting others that might arise depending on the different possibilities. In the same way that has been and continues to be done with regard to the dimensioning of the different human teams that make up these units. I have commented at the beginning of my intervention, we already have a new frame of reference, the Oncological Plan, an instrument that guides the action of the Osakidetza Department of Health in relation to oncology care, also with pediatric oncology care. It is a sufficient framework of action to promote the actions that are being implemented from Osakidetza, which go in that line and give answers to many of the concerns expressed by the families of these patients. With regard to the second of the paragraphs in the People's Group's proposal to study the situation of the paediatric cancer patients in Álava travelling to the University Hospital of Cruces, the groups that we support to the Government, as has already been mentioned, we agree that this study should be carried out, in fact, we also take this aspect into account in our amendment as a whole. We are also aware – Mrs Garrido has also said – that the Department of Health, those responsible for Osakidetza, are already analysing this situation. We are convinced that, once the different situations of these girls and boys are assessed, appropriate measures will be taken, as far as possible and feasible, by health officials and appropriate circuits will be established, so that, to the extent possible, as I say, close attention can be given to the home, at least with regard to some tests. Sharing, therefore, the need for further progress along the path that the Department of Health is already going through, which is nothing other than that of walking forward in the improvement of pediatric oncology care units and in adapting, as far as possible, as I say, the care to the Alavese pediatric patients, we have negotiated, we have reached an agreement with the People's Group, which have already commented on those who have preceded me and which I will not repeat either, because it has already been mentioned. It seems that it will be supported by Elkarrekin Podemos and by Euskal Herria Bildu, that is, it is an agreement that will come out unanimously, of which we are certainly happy, and certainly; it is a good agreement. Nor do I want to end without highlighting and recognizing the important work that parents, mothers, the families of these children and adolescents suffering from pediatric cancer through the different associations in which they are included, and, of course, the professionals in our health system, especially and specifically those who are working day-to-day with illusion and responsibility in these pediatric oncology units. We congratulate, we congratulate everyone and everyone for the agreement reached, which is undoubtedly oriented towards the path of comprehensive, multidisciplinary, coordinated and quality care, in which Osakidetza, the Department of Health is immersed in order to advance the improvement that is always necessary, in order to try to ensure also the best possible care for pediatric cancer patients in the best conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u69	Thank you, Miss Otalora. A group that hasn't committed any correction together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Uria, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u70	Bakartxo Tejeria andrea. Counselors, counselors, colleagues and companions. Very brief. It's a good deal. Elkarrekin We can support this agreement that has been proposed to us by comrade Laura Garrido, and it is always a joy – I often say – that there is consensus in the defense of Basque public health. Two brief comments and I sit down. The first point is that we are not talking about a problem of important volumes. The infant mortality rate we have is among the lowest in the world: 2.6 per 1,000 live births. The incidence and mortality are small. In 2018 there were 53 deaths of children under one year of age. However, as has been well explained, the importance of childhood cancer is its social, family, psychological and public health and media significance. Precisely, the approach of this non-law proposition is to cushion as much as possible the social transcendence of the problem. It does not question the level or the scientific-technical activity of the team, but the adequacy of the infrastructures that improve the comfort and the family impact, the social and psychological impact of the problem. The Cruces Pediatrics Section is an excellent service. Since the late Dr. Rodríguez Soriano's leadership in 1971, he has developed an excellent professional, teaching and research activity. Undoubtedly, it can be said that the pediatric section of Cruces is one of those that gives prestige to Osakidetza and his good doing. In 1991, the Child Oncohematology Unit was set up along with 14 other subspecialities, and in 1993 the hospital was set up by day. You know that the fundamental things of childhood, leukemia, lymphoma, peripheral and central nervous system tumors, are tumors that are treated ambulatoryly mostly. Therefore, the day hospital is an essential element, in addition to the 16 beds that have been enlarged there and that has Cruces at this time assigned to the Hematological Oncology Unit. The teaching, research and assistance capacity have provided the pediatric section of Cruces with state and international recognition of excellence and quality, and remains in the same line. In this line, it has developed humanization projects including, as has been said very well before. There is a rental project for people from Álava and other areas who need their children in treatment, mainly chemotherapy, as you know, to have more than a day of care. There is an excellent report on childhood cancer from the Epidemiological Surveillance Service of the Department of Health that talks about the incidence of infant cancer mortality and survival in the Basque Autonomous Community. We are with a stable incidence, varying by age, 0-1 years, 4-5 years and 10-15 years of 156.6 cases per million inhabitants, and, when the denominator is a million inhabitants, is that we are talking about diseases with a limited number of cases. In the study of the epidemiological surveillance service, between 1992 and 2012, 1,032 cases were studied, ranging from 0 to 14 years, of which 211 cases died; in less than one year 12 children died. The two most important data that interest us, in order to assess the quality of the work being done, are the evolution of mortality and whether or not the survival period has improved, which is the fundamental quality criterion that we use in cancer care processes in our hospitals. Infant cancer mortality has decreased in this period, 1992-2012, which is the last data we have, by 3.4%, and the survival of childhood cancer, especially because of the improvement in leukemia treatments, has improved by 7% after 5 years since diagnosis. It's good data, there's good track record, we're on our way. The situation of care for childhood cancer may be better. Thus, attention to childhood cancer – and with this end – is the responsibility of Osakidetza and it assumes this responsibility, not only with the epidemiological studies and the Oncological Plan, which have already been mentioned, but because it assumes its funding, planning, management and guarantee of good clinical practice. It is therefore not the responsibility of the third sector, which we always respect, both the clinicians and the leaders of Osakidetza, and we must always listen. It is not the responsibility of newspapers and media marathons on television, radio, etc., against childhood cancer, always welcome as elements of social solidarity. It is not the responsibility of private donations, a matter that we will discuss and contrast next week. And it is not the responsibility of this loving and supportive man that we met this morning, a cyclist who goes from parliament to parliament against childhood cancer; loving man, solidarity, who moves consciences; but it is not his responsibility the treatment, quality and excellence of the process of care for childhood cancer. I just want to end up saying it's a good deal. We need to know who each responsibility is, we need to know who to listen to, who to respect, but who should manage the process. It is a drama and like all social drama, well in childhood cancer, well in other rare diseases, you have to be very careful, because they are very difficult to handle from the point of view of clinical management. However, thanks to the development of the Cruces Pediatrics Service, among others, which is a reference at the state level on issues such as child kidney transplantation, for example, but also on some issues of specific cancer treatment, it is a joy to achieve a consensus of this Parliament that supports, that gives impetus to the capacity of our public system to prestige its institutions and to adapt resources, funding and infrastructure, even though the social, family and psychological significance of the problems is so great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u71	Thank you, Mr. Uria. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u72	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. The question of the other proposition, as we are to discuss today, is of importance since 2016. At that time, in order to answer the petition of the representative of the Aspanogi, this group introduced an initiative with the Socialist Group. Today, again, we have the importance of the child's cancer on the table, and the several other societies and parliamentary groups have appeared with the same interest or concern. Our opinion is, happily, that the uneasiness of a minimum of three years ago has become a unanimous initiative. When we argue about cancer, the spokesman gives us chicken butts, I'm sure, and we usually get bargains together in this matter, thank God. And if that happens with the cancer that adults suffer, imagine what happens and how difficult it is to discuss the state of the cancer of children. Our intention is not to be negative, we've often said that our treatments have evolved today. In addition, we have a very good professional in public health system, and it has advanced a great deal in diagnosis and prevention. The cancer cures, not always, unfortunately, many patients die every year, but the hope of life grows longer and longer, and we are sure that in future the cancer will be chronic, but we are sure it will be chronic. It is an idea that we constantly repeat, because we are convinced, moreover, that it really is. But that does not mean that there is no need to improve, especially with regard to child oncology, oncohematology in order to be more concrete; urgent improvements must be made, both in terms of human resources and materials; improvements must be made in terms of comprehensive care, infrastructure, organization and assistance at the territorial level. And we say full attention The ratios at the present day in the pedatric phyhematology, e.g., are not adequate and are not filled with agreed numbers; as well as in the case of the best psychologists, as in the case of nurses, the ration exceeds. And this situation brings to different difficulties at the moment of attention. On the other hand, the areas in both units are either not suitable, or they were not, we don't know, because they seem to be making works. Sometimes the site and space share between visits and children. The waiting room, for instance, of the immunodepressives at the cross-country hospital is in a corridor exactly in front of an elevator. This position has no meaning, and we ought to change it as soon as possible. Handbeds, camillas We need to remember that the Board of Medical Services of this legislature has asked you to give me psychological attention again, but we don't know if he's been willing to obey that order. Maybe the teams that support the government can answer. EH Bildu talde parlementarianoak bi unit horiek bisitatzea ére eskatu zuen. And it would have been tremendously interesting to have been able to visit those two units before discussing this non-law proposal, because we could have seen firsthand what all they have moved us and today we are trying to tell. Well, as Mrs Red and Mrs Otalora have both advanced, well, it seems that certain improvements, certain works have been made, and we will certainly not see it in the conditions under which they were. Well, welcome are the reforms, but I insist, this was requested already since 2016. On the other hand, we need to re-emphasize the Oncology Plan, a strategic plan for both the department and the Government. It is a great opportunity to make progress on everything related to prevention and oncology care. And the plans are very good, especially as they are plans that have objectives shared by all the groups in this House. But the plans also have to be effective, they have to be concrete, they have to be achievable, they have to be developed and, in addition, they have to be accompanied by an economic memory. And in this case, well, we will not be able to deny that, even if it is collected, because it is true that the opposition we have had to take the initiative to promote certain improvements relating to pediatric cancer. And, as I have also said on other occasions, this is also Oncological Plan. As you know, this group has no corrections, because we believe that the original proposition is responsible for the situation. The proposed team has worked out a medium that we have unanimously accepted, and it is gratitude, as we have said at first, when we are generally discussing cancer, to obtain great harmony. And the usual agreement in these matters is good, because above political interest there are other social and instinctive interests. We will not repeat all our support for the recognition of professionals in the third sector, within each of their fields, knowing very well what they have to do and at every moment, because we have done so on many occasions too, we have done so in the committee. Now all we want to do is appeal to the Government to comply as soon as possible with what the parliamentary groups are asking it: to prioritize the improvement of the two units of pediatric oncology; to resolve the obvious problems of space, to facilitate the care of these children and adolescents; and to ask them to take care of their families, so that they can care for these children in conditions. We ask them to take care of those who take care of them. To look after professionals, we ask you to look after the guards, to give us the best attention, to work in a good emotional and personal situation. In a word, we ask you to obey as soon as possible what we have agreed on here. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Does anyone want to join the answering shift? [[Berber]] End of discussion, we'll put Euskal Populars and Basque Sociists and the middle-direction signed by the Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u74	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Provide the proposition as a parlamentary group, as to the measures to be taken in front of the critical situation of the Basques. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Casanova, representative of the EH Group, has the word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u75	Hello, good afternoon. I'm here to denounce a robbery. Euscalel's company has been stolen from the Basque Company. I've come to report a robbery, a robbery at the Euskaltel company, the theft of the Euskaltel company, because we've been robbed of the Euskaltel company by everyone. A company created in 1995 with public money, with political impulse and with objectives, beyond merely business, of a political and social character in a strategic sector at the time – and even more so today – such as that of telecommunications, and called – as I said – to develop not only a commercial activity, but also to generate more value for society. This company generated with money, impulse and public objectives in 1995 is today a vultures' pasture, a pasture of the most voracious sharks in international markets. It has gone from being a public enterprise in design and ownership to being a private enterprise and the object of the worst practices of casino capitalism, and all this following a perfectly planned strategy, to a sequence of events designed to make what happened yesterday, or at least yesterday had one of its culminating points with the takeover of the Board of Directors of Euskaltel by the company or the Zegona fund. It was such a coherent sequence of events that it was absolutely predictable. I believe that at this time we must also denounce the different responsibilities that this process has taken place, by action or omission, and, in my opinion and in the understanding of our parliamentary group, the main ones responsible that today Euskaltel has gone from being a public company to being a private company in the hands of speculators are the former lehendakari, Patxi López, the current lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu, the President of Kutxabank, Gregory Villalabetitia, and the President of Euskaltel, Alberto García Erauzkin. They, with different degrees of responsibility, but by action or omission, are responsible for the situation in which we find ourselves. There have been different factors and different motivations, different reasons for the performance of these four protagonists. We may be talking in some cases of incompetence or, if not, in others of impotence, or perhaps of indifference. But the result has been an indecency, the indecency that we have been deprived of a public company owned and targeted to – as I said – put it in the hands of speculators. A few years ago we had Euskaltel, now we have Euskaltel Group and probably within a few months we have Virgin Spain. In the meantime, in the transition from one situation to another, such privatization has occurred, there has been the indecent enrichment of the management of Euskaltel, there has been serious damage to the quality of life and labour relations of the Euskaltel staff and, of course, also harmful effects on the entire subcontracting chain. This, as I was saying, was not only predictable, but was already predicted with hairs and signals, because it was so obvious what was going to happen, while some looked elsewhere or applauded, that it was not difficult to know what the process that started in 2012 with the privatization of the fiber optic network was opening up to us. In 2012, the group of Eusko Alkartasuna, as did the group of Aralar, opposed this privatization of fiber optics and the sale of government shares. And he said: "What the government is proposing, in short, is to sell their networks to an external investor interested in purchasing Euskaltel. In this regard, it is important to note the fact that Kutxabank, the company's main shareholder, also intends to dispose of a large shareholder package, which, together with the Executive's plans, makes clear the risk that an investor outside Basque society will be controlled by Euskaltel and, consequently, the company's decision-making centre will leave Euskal Herria, thereby making the company's strategic decisions responsive to interests outside those in this country, which would thus lose a firm committed to its well-being and economic development." This was said in 2012, because it was obvious that what was going to happen was going to happen. And in the meantime, what did the government do then and then? So applaud, collaborate, sell shares, privatize the fiber optic network and applaud also, of course, the outlet. This has already happened that was denounced, the loss of roots. Because Euskaltel is no longer a company whose decision-making centre is in the Basque Country. Decisions about Euskaltel are not already made here. No, Mrs. Tapia, they're not taken here anymore. Next Monday, there's a stockholders' meeting in Zegona. And in Zegona, London, they're going to decide Euskaltel's future. Because, you think Zegona investors are going to ask Mr. Eamonn O'Hare to invest in popular holiday sponsorships, to guarantee attention in Basque, to be committed to the country, to make the most cutting-edge technological investments first here, to make agreements with the university, to boost R & D in Euskal Herria? No, they're going to ask you one thing: to value your investment, and, if you don't value your investment in the terms they're going to impose on you, they're going to cut off your head. And Mr Eamonn O'Hare, who is the owner of Euskaltel, the one who made the decisions of Euskaltel and the one who yesterday appointed the Chairman of the Board of Directors, so that they do not cut off his head, is not going to make up for anything with regard to Euskaltel. Because Zegona's counsel is going to demand it from him and he's going to demand it from Euskaltel's counsel. And we have precedents, we are in the second phase, the fixed phase. We don't know if all that will happen. We do not know whether he will, but we shall see that in the future they are able to bring all these plans forward, but now they are investigating these things. Because the problem is not profitable. Because Euscalel was a profitable company. These people don't care about corporate rentals. What matters is his, his investment's income. And it's what they want to increase the value of stocks and apply the most aggressive techniques. The rest of it is his intention in the Spanish State of Teleco. And what comes here is what I have said: 2015 times, I don't know how much. And who put Zegona's Trojan horse inside Euskaltel? Because Zegona didn't appear from heaven. Zegona didn't go to the stock exchange to buy Euskaltel's shares. Zegona got Alberto García Erauzkin into Euskaltel when he bought Telecable. A decision that does not meet any objective economic criteria. A company that had absolutely no need to buy and less at the deorbited price that was paid at the time. A company that also carried inside, as in the Alien movie, the alien And in front of this, it has sometimes been supported by different governments. It's helped when the optic fiber network was sold and it's helped when the public shares were sold. It has been helped even when the operation has been applauded when we go to the stock market, and it has been helped when the things were planned, and when we were unable to maintain a worthy stock package, to avoid all this. I thought those shares would unite with the stocks of the Arkbank and get them to make a front, but I don't know if I saw yesterday's. I don't know what outfit the Ark's in. I don't know what outfit the Ark's in. I thought he was on our team, but yesterday he gave control to zero, or at least accepted it, and now... The trunk isn't owned by Villaweigati, it's an executive, and Euscalel isn't the family firm. Eske The chest is the banka-fundation of the banknotes, and the sum total of the coffers made in cash. So there's also social responsibility. There he is. But it looks like people do what they want. We've asked him to bring us in this district of law to the minimum, and if they have to do so, it's because it's a law to do it, how to reconcile this transmission with so-called euscal agents and institutions to stay in the hands of the Arkascals. It's just that it's collapsing, while we're talking about Euskaltel, Kutxabank is selling stock. Did he call you to see if he wanted them? Has Kutxabank done anything to try, as Parliament has asked, to keep these actions in Basque hands? We have invited Mr. Villalabeitia, and that is why I speak harshly of him, just like Mr. Erauzkin. We have invited you to come to this Parliament. I know they don't have the legal obligation, but they had the moral obligation to come and explain what's going on and their responsibility. Perhaps Villalabeitia and Erauzkin have not dared to come here to justify what they are doing, because what they are doing is unjustifiable. If you do not come to the committee, as you were invited, to give your version, I will not save my criticism from here. And this Government has had neither the will nor the ability to intervene decisively in Euskaltel. There's no bottom. There is no investment fund yet, but there is no political fund either in industrial policy and in public investment policy. We are seeing these days how the French State has decisively intervened in the process of merging two private companies, one of which, Renault, the French State is a shareholder. And, as a shareholder, it has been able to put conditions, and for the time being, that process has been paralysed because one of the partners did not like the conditions that the French State imposed. And this happens in Macron's France, with a liberal government. But the Basque government of the PNV and the PSOE is more liberal than the most liberal government in Europe, because the French Finance Minister says: "France has defended the interests of the French". And whose interests has the Basque Government defended in the Euskaltel case? From Zegona, saying that the root is not in danger, doing devil's lawyer, knowing what Zegona is? By putting on warm cloths instead of intervening decisively? Because, Mrs Tapia, buying a small package of stocks, as it has been put on the table, when the storm was already quite strong, it makes no sense. Why do we want to buy a small stock testimonial package? So they can give us a Euskaltel flag or a free phone? Why do we want a small stock package? We want to be able to intervene, we want to be able to block this kind of thing. Because at present in Euskaltel there is no guarantee even a minority of blockage for the change of statutes, because you say that, indeed, there are certain issues that need to be changed by statute with a qualified majority of 75%. But it's just that Kutxabank – which I'm saying I'm not very clear now on which team he plays – has the 20. It is true that 25% of the property is very atomized, but it would not be difficult to agree to the 50 and so many, and, if a concerted action is taken, even that which is the most armored is in danger. But I tell you that this is neither a guarantee nor a guarantee that the decisions will be made here, that they will be made in London, nor that the offices and the part of the job lion will be moving to Madrid like the rest of the telecos. And we also brought a proposal to activate the fund. The fund that the government announces in 2017 – in January 2017 – then, before it is constituted, is made an operation with that fund. I mean, the Cid won a battle after he died. You used the investment fund before you set it up. It is something similar, but in reverse: before birth I was already winning battles this background. I was buying CAF, which no one has yet explained why we wanted 1% of CAF's shares. No one's explained it. But he's doing things. Then we come to an agreement in this Parliament. An agreement I read in the press today. Congratulations, Mr Damborenea, I hope you are more fortunate than I am, for I too have an agreement like yours, and earlier, in which I was given a deadline for the fund. I'm saying I hope you're better off, because I want you to get the bottom of it. I don't want the fund to be made to criticize the government, no. I want the fund to be made, because I think it is good and necessary, and we have not only set a deadline, but also a series of conditions that I do not know if they are repealed. I do not know if your agreement has a derogation clause, but more than a year and a half ago I came to an agreement with this Government that has paragraphs like this, a paragraph that I call "Santallana del Mar paragraph". You know that Santillana del Mar is neither holy nor plain nor has sea, right? For in this agreement practically in every sentence there is something that has not been fulfilled, which is not true. I agreed with the Basque Government: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to present in Parliament – it has not presented it – the public-private investment proposal that it announced when it is completed – it is not completed – in the framework of the first half of 2018". He didn't show up. And this is the best thing: "and to act with transparency." Man, more transparent than the newspaper there is nothing, but through the newspaper, year and a half after this agreement, I learned that there is a new date. I hope, I mean, I hope it's done. What we have to do is a strong, planned and organized investment to get the Basque control, to stop Basque control in the hands of Euscaltes. And I have mentioned them before: popular festivals, frontons, euca and technology. Now the most important fight in the world is the technology. It is only to be seen what has happened to Huawei, the battle between the United States and China. Behind this is the control of networks, because it is the indispensable control of networks in a world that will become more and more connected because it belongs to the strategic. And the main Basque company who worked in that area has lost control of it, and, by the way, let us say that the Ibermátic is going to be the same way, and that the same thing will soon happen, but it will increase the Ibermátic. So we're losing resources in a strategic sector and we have to get them back, and there's got to be a degenerate interference in dealing with them. I'm not signing any more symbolic agreements. When things really show their will to do, I'll be there, and our team will be there to help. And there is will to be a stopicius
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u76	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u77	I think it's possible to buy shares. 25% of the strategic phase to return to the euscal hands, i.e. to purchase 5%; and in a second stage 10% more to avoid what Zneca wants to do once and for all. That's possible, there's a chance and that's financially possible. Do it, or it'll be Basque, and in the future we'll have Virgin Spain. And, excuse me, one last mention. I want to talk about workers because they were here yesterday. If the entire Basque society loses a lot of the evolution of Euscalels, the workers have lost a lot of it in recent years, the conditions of work have been much worse, the sterilization has been diminished, their salarys have been frozen, and now, in the last few months, they're living an intolerable situation, because no one knows whether they'll have a job next day or not. They're living a very hard situation, and this is where I get the warmest union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u78	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u79	Good afternoon, congressmen. We share much of the analysis and description that Mr Casanova has made and also much of the initiative that they bring to the House today, he already knows. And also, although I come out in another tone, we share the more than justified tone of goat that I think Mr Casanova has rightly put forward today. There is a deep concern about the situation and the future of the company Euskaltel. It is a well-founded concern, founded on the control that the British investment fund Zegona has taken from it. And the concern is well founded, in our opinion, because we already know what the operation of this type of funds is when they are made with the control of a company, always with negative consequences for the workers, but also, in this case in a special way, for the general interest, because it is Euskaltel of a strategic company because of the place it occupies in the sector so important today of the telecommunications in our country. This investment fund says it's dedicated to buying, fixing and selling, and this is a lie. What this investment fund in Euskaltel is going to do is rather buy, squander and run away, taking away, therefore, all that can get out of squandering Euskaltel, that is, important profits at the cost of redundancies, outsourcing, indebtedness of the company and even sale of infrastructure and properties, something has already been said. The Euskaltel workers, it's true, were on the committee yesterday, and they are more than worried, because they know that this is what is coming upon them with total probability. And they know that, moreover, because these have been the practices of other smaller private investors who have passed through the company in recent years. Yesterday they described them to us with all the luxury of details. The Basque Government believes that those of us who support this analysis of what is going on and is going to happen in Euskaltel are reckless. Surely, as on so many occasions, he would appeal to the necessary confidence, implying that some of us are suspicious per se. For a few years now, the company Euskaltel, whose creation we pay to cleavage among all Basques and Basques with public money, is no longer owned by all and everyone, even if indirectly. Private owners, mostly capitalist investors, have long been the majority owners of this company, something that we have criticized on previous occasions since our coalition when this issue has been discussed in this Parliament. And at the moment the company Euskaltel, whose creation, as I say, we pay at a cost among all with public money, is not only in private hands, but is already in the worst private hands possible and with an uncertain future, not to say harmful. It is harmful, at least, for the interests of the Euskaltel workers, for the interests of the indirect workers, for the companies that work with them and also for the customers of this company supposedly emblematic for Euskaltel, and it is harmful, of course, for the general interest of our country. Nefarious for the general interest because we are seeing how public money ends up serving exclusively for the private interests of a few and for the immoral enrichment of some, as has happened in Euskaltel over the past few years, since it began all the privatization policy of this company. What is happening now with this investment fund is a decisive chapter in this entire path of privatization of public resources, of which governments and some parties have been, are, and I think they will continue to be participants, it seems that this will unfortunately continue to be the case with the current government. Euskaltel would not exist today if it were not for public money, money of our taxes, fundamentally, by the way, as I have heard on more than one occasion, of the workers, who are the ones who pay the most in the end. Therefore, in the opinion of our coalition, Euskaltel should never have ceased to have strong control and participation from the public, because of its strategic character in telecommunications and because of its origin with expenditure of public money, and the truth is that the current reality of Euskaltel is the result of a concrete policy, a clearly neoliberal policy, where the public administration acts in the service of private interests under the false argument of the so-called free market. Mr. Grajales, spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, said the last time we discussed Euskaltel that the Basque Government gets to where the private sector cannot and then leaves the private sector to the development of enterprises. The Basque Government devotes public resources, in our view, to companies and then disagrees with the reality of those companies. We have seen it in other companies, such as CEL, XEY or so many others who have also passed through this House. But in this case we are talking, and I will not tire of repeating it, about a company created by decision of the public institutions, and created with public money. Using public money to generate a strategic enterprise in the communications sector, so that the country has an entity that can provide Basque with a vital service today, is a good political decision in the service of the general interest. Creating a strategic company with public money for capitalists and speculators to do business with these services is no longer a good political decision at the service of the general interest, but perhaps a good political decision at the service of particular interests. And therefore, in our view, a bad political decision. And this second, is what we have shown to have happened with Euskaltel. It does not give time to describe the history of what has happened. But I recommend to parliamentarians that they view yesterday's appearance by the representative of the Workers' Commissions in Euskaltel, because, with data, he made an absolutely relevant presentation of what Euskaltel's trajectory has been in recent years. The decisions of the Euskaltel owners and their consequences have demonstrated the importance of who has ownership and control over this strategic enterprise created with public money. That is why it is important for us to talk, and we are talking about it again today in our initiative, to seek social control, public control, etc. And that is why we propose the need for public financial tools capable of ensuring investments in strategic companies, such as Euskaltel. To ensure not only the root, but to decide on the business model and the objectives, so that the objectives are useful to the general interest and not only to the particular interest. And, if we think it's important to talk about public intervention in strategic companies, we think it's fundamental when we talk about companies like Euskaltel. I repeat that, in addition to strategic, it is a company created with public impulse, that is, by a decision of public institutions and with money, with public capital. That is why our group believes, and we will continue to insist, that public policies in this regard must ensure social control over these types of companies, and that public banking is a fundamental tool that should be strengthened for this purpose. Yesterday we were also told at the hearing by the representatives of the workers that, if behind some financial problems of the companies, there was a bank that had liquidity, perhaps the managers of those companies would not be engaged in certain operations. It is essential that there is a public banking pole with which to protect citizens and our savings, to reduce the imposing power of the financial oligarchy that acts on these types of companies and to establish lines of credit to relevant productive sectors and to intervene in strategic sectors in favour of the general interest. And also to prevent companies created with public money, such as this, from turning out to be simply the business of the system's most abductors, that's what's happening right now in Euskaltel.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u80	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, this debate I believe that in the three years that we have been in the legislature, with this company or with others, we have reproduced it a few times. And I therefore hope, Mr Casanova, that this time the government will do, in the third quarter of next year, the creation of the public-private investment fund announced to us by the lady advising us on the day she took office, the next day in office, and she explained to us the strategic lines of the department, and she told us about the creation of this fund. I, of course, applauded her, animated her and told her that she had our support to create it, and to this day. But, well, I hope the government does this time. Now, I believe that here there is another debate that is going on. Because Mr. Casanova said they want me to raise the value of the action. Of course or not so clear. There are shareholders who don't want me to raise the value of their shares, I don't care what company? Does anyone buy shares or invest in a company to lose value? No, no, let me say that I am open to all possibilities, but I would like to be given examples of how I operate in this formula and in this matter. Of course, Mr Hernandez, then he tells us, of course, the public bank, like, I don't know what, all that. Perhaps we all agree that a fund needs to be created, but we do not agree on what that fund needs to do. I do not agree to create a Basque INI, what Franco did, the Basque INI with unprofitable companies with so much I don't know what, but that they stay, and they stay at the expense of everyone else's taxes, in the end to harm everyone. That was not the idea that we were starting to create that fund. We are talking about profitable companies and the fund obviously has to make money, because if not, what kind of fund would we be creating? And then comes the business model, because I'm listening here to some speeches, does anyone really believe that Euskaltel in the medium or long term or Kutxabank, which gives me the same, in the medium or long term, can survive competing with all the companies of the world only in the Basque Country? Yeah? Well, I don't think so. That every day you lose market share, and you lose market share and you lose market share. We want to have Basque companies that work, that compete, that obviously give value to the stock and that share dividends, for that they invest people in the companies, not only the vulture funds that you say, also the normal people of the street. And that's why you have to compete, open up and have business. Euskaltel all over Spain too, is that if not, what kind of business is that? Let's see, I as a nationalist concept, because if you want to take it and pose it and close the borders, it declares itself independent and here only operates Euskaltel, and then creates with Mr Hernández the public bank and it doesn't matter that you lose money because as the bank is public and you don't know where the money comes from... For always from the same place, from the taxes of the citizens. That's why I'm telling you to see if we're talking about different investment funds. Because we're not the INI, the Basque INI, we're not in that, we weren't in that. And, for the moment in Euskaltel, finally, the decision center because it is still here and this shareholder because it has the percentage that it has. Now, if most shareholders decide it's better for the company... "To give value to the company," you said, so that the shares are worth more. Look, of course they're for that, they're not for you to lose value, they're not for the company to close. Well, in any case, this is a debate we have been repeating, which seems like we all say the same thing when we use certain phrases, but some of us are not saying the exact same thing. And when we talk about the public-private fund, I don't know if Mr Hernández and I talk about the same thing, or Mr Casanova and I talk about the same thing. It seems to me that no, it seems to me that we are not talking about the same thing, and therefore I do hope that this fund is created at once and that it is obviously profitable to be in profitable companies, to facilitate the rooting of these companies here, but obviously these companies have to grow and compete outside, as those outside compete here, because, if not, we will hardly go with all the companies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u82	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u83	Yes, thank you, President. Egun on. Look, of the resolution proposals of the initiative presented by Euskal Herria Bildu, of five points three dedicates it to putting forward actions of rejection and denunciation, and only two are the actions that you propose in positive: the investment for the purchase of shares of Euskaltel and another more generic for the development of a meaningful and sustainable investment policy to ensure the connection to the territory of Euskaltel and other significant companies. I therefore understand from your initiative that you consider the Euskaltel affair to be serious, above all on the basis of the roots, but only two issues for you are those which enable you to safeguard these urgent and necessary measures for the Euskaltel issue. And almost a month ago, the Development and Infrastructure Advisor, responding to an inquiry, made a number of specific considerations regarding the rooting of Euskaltel, and began by pointing out that the company's outing on the stock market was used to modify the statutes of Euskaltel, in order to guarantee a number of fundamental elements for the rooting, defining what was rooting, how to do so and also demanding an exceptionally high percentage, which does not occur with assiduousness, in order to precisely maintain that rooting. And those statutes, these new statutes, were approved by all the shareholders of the company at the time of the stock market. And part of the root is the social domicile, the social object, the change of the possible mark of Euskaltel, yes of the mark of Euskaltel in Euskadi, the effective administration and management of the society in Euskadi, which also includes the social headquarters, the obligation to hold general meetings in Euskadi, the maintenance of personal resources, the maintenance of work centres, the maintenance of material means and, ultimately, the development of the activity of the telecommunications operator in Euskadi and the ownership of the telecommunications network. And we are talking about the need for a minimum of 75% of capital to change any of these elements that I have commented to you. The current participation of Kutxabank is 19.88 %, taking into account the shares involved or other shareholders, pension funds, etc., comes to a percentage of that 25 % which allows to veto any change in the elements of the root that occupy us so much and worry us so much. Today the investment fund holds the majority with 20%, and the adviser made a statement about Euskaltel's future as an industrial activity and said: "If at some point from the transition to the exit of the investment fund we see at risk the possibility that 25% of the capital is not in the right hands, the government has the necessary instruments to be able to act and intervene." And that is why the first three points of the joint amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialists that we have also had with the Basque People's Group urge the government to authorize all the resources at its disposal so that this company, Euskaltel, has the highest level of roots in Basque territory for the sake of ensuring commitment to employment, investment, research, technological progress and industrial development in our autonomous community. We have also proposed to reiterate the compromise adopted at the plenary session of 21 February, just over three months ago, in which we discussed the measures taken to establish in the Basque Autonomous Community the headquarters and decision-making capacity of Euskaltel and other strategic companies, and we therefore urge the Basque Government, Kutxabank and the banking foundations, aiming at a solid, healthy and sustainable productive model in the Basque Country, which is also something that was demanded yesterday by both the representatives of the Workers' Commissions and the ELA union. We proposed to develop a meaningful and sustainable investment policy in strategic enterprises, to ensure their attachment to the territory and to ensure the permanence of their decision-making capacity in Euskadi. With regard to the strategy to encourage the location of Basque companies and also foreign companies here in Euskadi as a stake for the industrial and business future in our territory, we urge the Basque Government to maintain and improve the competitive capacities of Euskadi in order to optimize its attractiveness as an optimal territory for the settlement and rooting of tractor companies. In August 2012, the Basque Socialists, together with the Basque Nationalist group and the People's Party, rejected in the Finance Committee the proposals of Eusko Alkartasuna and Aralar against the transmission to Euskaltel of the network of telecommunications and surplus infrastructure and also for the sale of the shares of Euskaltel owned then by the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskaldi. The Basque Government in 2012, following the approval of the Basque Parliament to make such a sale, did not need to make use of the possibility of maintaining a minority stake of less than 5% to ensure the maintenance of that brand, the headquarters and the decision-making centre, because the partners who remained in Euskaltel, Kutxabank and Iberdrola reached more than 50% of the company, which meant ensuring that the conditions imposed on the investor were maintained. And I say this because it seems that decisions were made here in this House that came without much foundation, and that is not the case. Things were done well and also ratified by this Parliament. And since that August 2012, there have been several occasions when we have had the opportunity to discuss Euskaltel and its territorial connection to Euskaltel. On the guarantees of this link, on the process of the outflow of its capital, on the planning for the promotion of public investment in companies in the industrial sector and on the measures to be taken in order to establish in Euskadi the headquarters and decision-making capacity of Euskaltel and other strategic enterprises. And I, in memory, have compiled some agreements that we have come to by majority in this House since August 2012, because they are legitimate, democratic and valid agreements today, because we have been working on that path after that rejection of the proposals by Eusko Alkartasuna and Aralar that wanted to prevent this transmission of the telecommunications network and the infrastructure of Euskaltel. Look, in April 2014, a compromise amendment was adopted in this House, tabled by Basque Socialists and Basque Nationalists, which urged the Basque Government to work and promote measures to prevent the relocation of businesses based in Euskadi, so that companies such as Euskaltel, maintaining their territorial link, continue to act as tractors for the rest of the sector, so that, in addition to maintaining current employment, it continues to generate new quality employment in a sector that is strategic. Thus, between the companies and the representation of the workers, regarding the outsourcing of some service, case of Euskaltel, that it is oriented towards formulas that allow to maintain the jobs and the working conditions. On 8 October 2015, another amendment was adopted in which the Basque Parliament ratified the authorisations granted to the Basque Government on 13 August 2012 for the transmission to Euskaltel Sociedad Anónima of the communications and infrastructure network owned by the Basque Autonomous Community. The Basque Parliament also considered that the start-up of the company was timely, as it involved a strengthening as a leading operator in the telecommunications sector, which would also facilitate its access to more sources of finance and its future growth and development. Parliament also approved that business management practices should be seen as consistent with the search for improved competitiveness of businesses, but also with the construction of a more equal and fair social and economic model of society. The Basque Parliament also approved that it considered that the company Euskaltel and its management teams have a commitment to Basque society for the support given by it to the birth and development of these business projects and calls for the company's link with Euskaldi to be maintained in its strategic decisions and this translates into job creation and a commitment to the development of innovation. In addition, the Basque Parliament approved that it considered that the company Euskaltel must establish a quality working climate and conditions in its organisation, and urged the Basque Government to continue to promote the creation of new companies, especially in strategic and emerging sectors, with the participation and assumption of business risk by both the public and private sectors. Closer on the dates, February 22, 2018, we adopted a majority amendment to the motion on planning for the promotion of public investment in companies in the industrial sector, which showed the Basque Parliament's concern about the process of selling business holdings being carried out by the Kutxabank banking entity and urged the bank and the foundations of the banks not to take this divestment process beyond the mandatory limits set by European law and to seek more effective funds. The Basque Government was urged to present in Parliament the public-private investment proposal which, as has been said, has not been implemented. The explanations will be given, but we have accepted the amendment put forward by the People's Party regarding the creation of this public-private fund in the third quarter of this year 2019. And it was also said that the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to make use of the rights given to it by the percentages of capital it has in companies, thanks to the investment of public funds, to monitor the activity of the company and to ensure that this activity is properly developed from the perspective of general interests and industrial policy. And already closer, more soon, on 21 February of the same year, the amendment we were having with Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos. Of that amendment which you jointly tabled, the third point was adopted with our support, which was fully in line with one of those points which we also bring today in our trans-European amendment, which called on the Basque Government, Kutxabank and the foundations to develop, with a view to a productive, sound, healthy and sustainable model in the Basque Autonomous Community, these significant and sustainable investments in strategic enterprises. Therefore, this House has made a full tour to this day since 2012, during several legislatures, with different governments, in which parliamentary groups, by a democratic majority, by a legitimate majority, we have spoken, debated and also made, together with the Government, a series of commitments, ensuring, in addition to the root of Euskaltel, that we consider to be a priority, and of the tractor companies that are in Euskaltel, also ensuring the working conditions of the workers of Euskaltel and the availability of effective and adequate financial tools to be able to participate in those companies and also to ensure their root and also their location in Euskaltel. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u85	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good evenings. I am surprised to examine this subject again, and at the February the day before yesterday, exactate; It's a very good start, it's an interesting mutation that allows us to welcome you to the home of those of us who defend industries and companies as essential to generate employment, wealth and, ultimately, well-being. Because of course, they started this legislature by refusing to visit the companies to which they invited us from Confebask – I told you the other day – in order to be able to deepen the Basque business reality, and right now they are in the defense to the extreme not only of the same ones, but in the defense that they do not leave, that they remain. I said, welcome to the club. Now, totally in the club because I don't see them yet, as they maintain some deficit of some understanding of things. You think of the root of the companies to Euskadi with a kind of pastoral conception, of creating organizations adapted to the size of the country and in which that root is always accompanied by an unconditional love for the rooted company. But no, in this global world – I want them to fall off the pine tree – a technological company like Euskaltel that wants to have continuity has no other solution but to grow. Growing up in an area where competitiveness is high-voltage, growing up to be competitive, so that those of us who live here deep-rooted, not only because it's from here, that it can happen too, but because it offers us competitive prices and services. The rooting of a company will not always mean the rooting of the citizens rooted in that deep-rooted company and less when competition is high and attacks on the four sides, unless they propose to us, as well as food sovereignty, that the tomatoes here we eat the ones here and we do not let the ones there enter, a kind of telephone sovereignty, wifi sovereignty, telephone autoarchy. Therefore, in order to be competitive and maintain a deep-rooted company, yes, but to keep it, which is the first thing, you have to grow, and it can always come, there usually comes a time when such growth can only be made from a stock market outlet, the only way to achieve the funds necessary for that growth, because there is no company or public administration that can sustain investments of the caliber of which some companies need to compete. The company has to increase the capital to increase its competitiveness, and fun can't get involved again and again, even after they've gone out into the stock market. So when a modern company offers even technological services, it needs to grow up if it wants to be competitive, and that's what it needs to fund, which leads to the dispersal of the owners. And so the corporation takes a lot of risks until it starts delocation and splits. In the case that you bring us here, Euskaltel, the situation is already a little different, for, among other things, the root is and has been a determining factor in your activity since the beginning of your operations. This root, in anticipation of its growth, has been protected and has historically manifested itself from a societal point of view. It was a company made by Basque entities, yes, to provide services to the people of Euskadi, although time showed that more had to be done than those services, if one wanted a viable company. Even in order to be a Basque company that gave employment and service to the Basques, it had to grow in a broad, global and competitive world. From 1995 to December 2012, the Basque boxes and then Kutxabank owned 68% of the capital, it has already been said here: then they had control of strategic decisions. From December 2012, with the entry of the first funds, until July 2015, Kutxabank maintained 49.9%, with a veto right contained in a partner pact in strategic decisions. With the release on the market in July 2015, an amendment to the statutes was approved in advance, in order to guarantee the fundamentals of rooting, further defining them and requiring an exceptionally high percentage to approve the agreements that intend to amend those elements. These root elements are social domicile, social object, trade mark change for Euskadi, effective administration and management of the company and ownership of the Euskadi telecommunications network. And the minimum exceptional majority to change any of those rooting elements is a 75% percentage, then 25% agreed can block any rooting agreement in Euskaltel. Although Kutxabank reduced its share of capital to 19.88 %, different management funds managed by Kutxabank itself, Basque pension funds and Basque shareholders account for almost the required 25 %; even some shareholders, who total 15 %, aligned fully with Kutxabank, have repeatedly stated that they will not vote against Kutxabank. In short, there are companies which, after a public impulse, maintain their attachment to their origin as essential characters, for example, Euscaltel, the company who intends to continue to work for the Basques, making Eukadin employment, and making Euskalidian technology rich. At the same time, and Councilwoman Arantxa Tapia told us days ago, she has already interviewed the new shareholders, with Zegona, and these have guaranteed not to touch what root means However, in our amendment we ask the Government, we know that it is not necessary, but despite everything we ask, to do everything possible to maintain the root of Euskaltel, and that "everything possible" includes from institutional pressure to entry into capital, both directly and through public or public-private funds. Because from our group we also understand that the root of Euskaltel is important, while we understand that the government is doing it well, there is nothing to blame it, and maintaining a line of relationship with the companies and their shareholders, which do not give rise to doubts that whoever wants to do with parts of the company must know that Euskaltel is from here. However, in spite of everything, there could be delicate situations that will force tensions that will have to be faced, in addition to Zegona's potential speculative desire, which here has become very clear, another fund or I don't know which Euskaltel owner may have the desire to remove Euskaltel, despite all the guarantees of rooting. And it will do so basically because in other places it finds better conditions than here, which today is very difficult, but it can happen. That is why we call on the Government to maintain and improve the conditions of Euskadi's competitiveness in order to continue and, if necessary, to increase our country's attractiveness for industrial investment, especially that of high-tech industry, that is the best way to get companies to take root, even to uproot other companies from elsewhere. Only if the competitiveness ecosystem of R & D or human resource formation is ideal, will we stop worrying about who the investor is or whether public institutions should invest more or less in the capital of companies. It's not about having public companies hostage even if they lose money, because that's not the case, this is not Osakidetza. It is a question of maintaining itself in competitive and market conditions. However, there may be different situations of risk of relocation, and our own amendment and the government's commitment is to do everything possible to guarantee 25% of the pact I have mentioned to you, a pact that is in any case more important than having 3% or 5% of the company. So the world moves and so does the corporations. It's very important that the strategic companies are built in Basques, and that's where we're working on our team and when we're happy, that's all. For this it is more necessary than to enter capital, which I do not doubt is also important, to work to make this country attractive in competitiveness, for which it is essential to continue to advance in formation, in R & D and, in general, a stable society with high social welfare quotas. That's what we're working on, and that's what will make Euskadi grow and what will encourage the root. The rest are subtleties of dialectics. And, again, welcome to the firm's defense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. To answer, Mr. Casanova, the representative of the EH Collectors has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u87	Well, starting at the end, don't ever welcome me again, Mr. Telleria. You yourself have acknowledged that we have been presenting initiatives for a long time, and I thank you for recognizing it to me, in defense of the companies of this country; the welcome is given once or twice, if not, it starts to seem a little repetitive; it is like the joke of digamelon digamelon digamelon effaliwonder digamelon Growth is not only important, market share is also important and there are companies that survive with a good market share in a small market rather than with uncontrolled growth. Growing up for growth is not always the formula of success and if you have doubts, Mr Damborenea has also asked me, ask in a company called Fagor, to see if growing up for growth was good, or ask in a company called Eroski still, it is called by the hairs, by the hairs, because it has been saved by the hairs of dogma to grow for growth. You have to know how to grow when you have to grow and you can also survive growing, but we're not even talking about that, we're talking about the control of the company, and the mission and the function. You talk to me about food sovereignty. When Euskal Herria Bildu introduced in the political debate the term of food sovereignty, there for 2012 – although he did not, of course, invent it was a previous term – the president at the time of the People's Party, Antonio Basagoiti, said to see if food sovereignty was to eat one another. Then Mr Basagoiti went to the private company after the joke, so that then they say that the PP never does anything that harms the private company, because there Mr Basagoiti went to the private company. Discussions should not be distorted. When I speak here of rooting, they say to me: "autarchy, wifi autarchy, enterprise autarchy, that no one enters." That no, man, that no, that we are in the 21st century, is impossible, moreover, even if someone wanted it would be impossible, but we just don't want it. They do not caricaturize, this is not autarchy of companies, nor of closed markets; this is to protect the root of a company. You who are from Bilbao, like me, will understand – well I am from Barakaldo –, will be from Athletic, I imagine, "herritik sortu zinalako, mite zaitu herriak", because you came from the village, the people love you, and because Euskaltel came from where it came from, has the market share, has the root and is the company that it is. Just like the boxes, not by some big managers, not because of size, no, no, because people perceive it as close, because they are close and because they give a plus, which is not a plus of the value of the action, but it is a company that is seen as useful to society, because there we can work ourselves and ourselves, because they care for us in a more friendly way, we see it closer, because the money stays in this country, because it is from here. That's rooting. And rooting is also, apart from the intangible, rooting is, for example, what was done when the fiber optic network developed, because we are not talking about birds and flowers, we are talking about we were pioneers in the development of fiber optics, thanks to the fact that there was a company that developed for it, and I, in the previous intervention, did not hurt clothes to recognize that it was a good thing of the government, that started that company. Now there are other technological revolutions underway, as we used to talk about, for example, 5G, and people take it seriously, and serious governments take the defense of their businesses very seriously and don't talk about autarchy. I told him that the French Finance Minister said "France has defended France's interests", of course. Of course that's what we have to do, defend the interests of this country, without autarchies, understanding that companies here will invest outside, and companies outside will invest here, but without losing the root of strategic companies. Because, I don't know if I've commented before, it's that Huawei's president is in jail in Canada, it's that Renault-Nissan's president was put in jail in Japan, allegedly for corruption, but sure, sure because Japan wasn't very happy with the deal that Nissan was giving him in the Nissan-Renault alliance, because governments are taking this kind of issue very seriously and what we're doing with Euskaltel is not serious, it's not serious the cutback of agreements that have been made here to applaud decisions that, clearly and clearly, are leading us to the loss of a strategic company. This in a normal country doesn't happen, it doesn't. It is that here there would be not only a group or two asking the government for responsibilities, but that these kinds of decisions, bad decisions, that lead to results like these in strategic companies have consequences in serious countries, and here we run a thick veil and nothing happens. We have come here with constructive proposals and when I was talking about that we have different conceptions of what investment funds can be, I summarized the conception I have of the investment fund in the agreement I reached with the Government and I have read a part that has not been fulfilled. I hope that another part will be fulfilled, when it is said that the funds seek the territorial root and the accompaniment in management, the accompaniment in management in the companies in which it is invested. And when it brings private partners into this fund, ensure that they share these objectives. And in the sixth point of that agreement, also signed by the majority of this House, it is said that the activity of the company must be monitored and that this activity must be properly developed from the perspective of general interests and industrial policy. If that fund had been in force and if that fund had had a significant stake in Euskaltel, they would not have entered these, because you tell me "the investor wants the value of the action." No, yes and no, yes and no. The investor wants economic profitability, and profitability can be obtained by revaluing the stock in the short term or by obtaining dividends, obtaining a longer-term investment, because it is not the same investor as a speculator. The investor seeks a permanence and logically seeks to earn money, the speculator seeks to do it in the short term and at the expense of whatever it is, even to charge the company. And that is the difference, that no investors have come to Euskaltel, have come speculators and the price of their speculation we will all pay, as the workers are already paying, as they have paid in the previous process of outing the stock market, and as we will pay as a society when the instruments that should be at the forefront of the coming technological revolution and that the counselor knows far better than I do of Industry 4.0, the interconnectivity, that everything is going to be based on telecommunications, the whole industry is going to be based on telecommunications, we at this moment are doing to lose vital instruments to be at the forefront in a strategic and tractor field of the rest of the industry. If that only deserves a statement...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u88	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u89	... to support what is being done and to say that everything is phenomenal when the speculator vultures are in charge of the company that had to lead that process, because look turn off and let's go, but with Euskal Herria Bildu do not count for that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u90	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together, Podemos, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u91	Above all, the spokesmen of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party have given us a brief tour, above all, of the percentages in the ownership of the company, in order to try to prove that this capacity of veto is guaranteed to the loss of roots and to the making of important decisions that may harm us. They have forgotten that decisions have been taken in recent years in this company which have harmed the general interest, but which have very directly harmed women workers, with those percentages which are supposed to be sufficient to ensure that such actions are avoided. And I was not given time in the previous speech to describe them, so I recommended that you see the intervention of the Workers' Committees in yesterday's Committee on Economic Development, because they are well explained there. Operations in the company that have involved real balls, and I am not referring only to the famous bonus, which also; real balls that have been made through devaluing the conditions of the workers, that have been made at the expense of decapitalizing the company and that have been made at the expense of generating a major debt in the company. And there are those who have made a lot of money from this, some of them investors who were smaller than the current vulture investor we're talking about, Zegona. Therefore, from our group we are clear what is going to happen to this investor. And there's no guarantee right now for that blocking capacity, there's no guarantee to keep that 25% that's not as much as you're proposing, because you assume that different small investors are always going to be aligned with those positions, and you don't have any guarantee of this. That is why the issue of property does seem to us to be very important. We are not talking about nationalizing a company because yes, by an exclusively ideological conception, we are talking about a company that was public or that was generated with public money, and that in the current situation it is very likely that it will follow the path that we are pointing out, a negative path for the interests of the workers and for the general interest of the country. Therefore, what we are proposing is that the public administration act to recover what it should never have lost, control over this company, which is indeed strategic in the world in which we live. A strategy of fundamental importance, that of communications. No one has talked here about Euskaltel not growing, or that Euskaltel cannot be dimensioned, but there are different ways of dimensioning, and yes, of course, capitalist owners want to earn money, but we think that you can have ownership in companies with other objectives, although for that a owner or part of the property has to be public, because from the public you can set goals of general interest; it is surely true that those who enter a company from the private have only particular objectives, but from the public you can act in a company in favor of the general interest, and that does not necessarily mean that the company is engaged in bad results. And the situation of Euskaltel is indeed not bad, and it is a company that could have a future. What we propose is exactly that, that we act from the public so that Euskaltel can meet those requirements of seeking good in the general interest, because, if not, what is going to happen is what we have been saying, that we have put public money among all, public money, so that some few earn a lot of money at the expense of all and everyone. Companies not only hold up because they grow up with monopoly, companies can hold up with good management and interest-based interests that are not just the interests of making money. For those who enter now or for those who have taken control of this company, their goal is not only to earn money, it is to earn money through a method, which is to crush the cow. I buy the cow, I crush it, and I get rid of it. They are not going to have the cow in a good meadow in good condition to give good milk; they are going to squeeze it to take the benefit quickly, and in that way they are going to stay, especially the workers, and the country is going to lose the possibility of having a company that can provide communications services for the general interest of Basque society. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u92	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Casanova, Mr. Basagoiti returned to the bank from which he had come. He went back to the bank he worked in and from which he had come. His grandfather also worked in that bank, but he also worked in that bank. It says "people's enterprise," listen, let's see, but this wasn't created by the Basque government, wasn't it the institutions? Or did the town suddenly say one day, "We're lighted up, we're gonna make a phone company"? Well, this wasn't like that. Besides, some of us do know how it went, and it had nothing to do with it. He says, "market share is the important thing." Of course, when you have, I don't care whether it's a bank or a telephone company, a market share in your territory of 60 or 70 % – that's why I've quoted Kutxabank, which is in the same situation – and they start competing with all the multinationals in the world and you're gradually losing your market share in that territory, you increase your market share in other places, which means it comes out, opens up. You will have to look for partners in those places, because everyone the root in your village has it very involved, you do not believe that those of Castilla do not have it also very involved or those of Asturias or those of... Everyone's got their root very deep. You'll have to look for partners, of course. That's what happens. And that happens to the big companies that were here, including Kutxabank. Enters with the market share of 70%, goes down, we raise salaries, goes down, and how far? How long? That's why I say, you're right, the important thing is the market share, pussy, because if it's the market share, let's expand the market share. If he's not gonna grow any more here and what he's doing is losing, he's gonna have to get out. Then he tells me "the value of the action"; to which a company cuts the value of the action gives absolutely the same. This does not benefit from the value of the action. You have said that these want to increase the value of the share, and I have said, fuck, of course, is that I don't know anyone who has shares or invests in a company and wants the value of the share to be reduced. Man, except for tax problems, if you have a lot more revenue on other sites the same compensates for profit losses, but come on, I don't see anyone investing to lose money anywhere. And of course, whoever invests in a company, whether it's through a stock exchange or whatever, does it by posing that it's going to win. He knows he runs a risk, but his interest and for which he enters is to win, not to lose. Unless you have a different mindset in Bildu, but I don't see you guys investing like crazy anywhere that loses money. But when you do, Mr. Hernandez too, listen, I as St. Thomas see you all investing in companies that lose money, but yours, huh? Not everyone's, yours. And then, well, I believe it anyway, I believe it something, a little. We've put in public money. We put public money and recovered public money with more. It seems here that the money... but no, it was sold. And you have enough guarantees; now, in this life, with guarantees, many things can happen, and by many guarantees that you put on or stop putting on, because many things can happen even unplanned by you or me. They may happen, but the logical thing is that they don't happen within the normality of things. And in any case, I'll tell you that the counselor has told me that yes, that this summer creates the bottom.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u94	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u95	Yes, thank you. To conclude this debate, what I would ask is, above all, respect for the democratic decisions that are being taken in this House over time, right? Because we repeat ourselves again and again in the debates, and it seems that no decision has been taken here. And we continue to repeat debates and no decision seems to be taken. Or he doesn't want to be seen. And it seems that everyone is guilty of having adopted by majority a number of agreements. Well, that's what democratic game rules have, that decisions and commitments are made, we like them more or we like them less. And I say to Mr Hernández that I believe that, in fact, no one has the absolute reason for the effectiveness of his actions. Yesterday the unions told us, because already in 2014 ELA criticized, harshly moreover, the agreement that had promoted Workers' Commissions with the company Euskaltel for labor guarantees for the people outsourced. And we were told that what in 2014 was a disgrace, yesterday was not so much. Well, time's taking away and giving reasons. I would like to make it clear that it is still a priority for the Basque Socialists to pursue a policy of maintaining the roots of the strategic and tractor companies operating in the Basque Country and the global market. And we also believe that the Basque Government must use all the resources at its disposal to enable Euskaltel, or other companies that are strategic or tractors, to find here in Euskadi the ideal and optimal location to carry out and develop that business and, fundamentally, to maintain its roots. And that effort to develop a significant investment policy for the rooting of such companies has again been called upon by the Basque Government and also by Kutxabank. And, although we are already discussing it at the moment, it is true that it is essential that there be financial instruments to carry out these strategic investments, and we hope and trust that privileged information that Mr Damborenea has about when the fund will be created, because it has been commented on by the adviser, that it will actually be at least in that third quarter of the same year 2019, as we have reflected and reflected in the compromise amendment. And after yesterday's appearances, both from the Workers' Committees and the ELA Union, so that they would value, from their point of view, the situation of Euskaltel, I would also like to make it clear that we share with them that, indeed, with Euskaltel and other companies, it is about generating value, generating wealth, but also for the social part, for direct and indirect staff, and that we are able above all to seek a return of that value to society, also generating new opportunities for the business fabric. We also shared with them that it is true that rooting is very important, but that it is also more than just the contribution, that it is also about generating value, and that it is also important to have an industrial partner that allows to have a viable and sustainable business future over time, which is something that has not appeared almost, but at the last minute it has been commented on. And finally, the Basque Socialists agree, as ELA said, that we should not go to maximize profits at the expense of everything, at the expense of everyone or at the expense of anything. But they did conclude with a phrase that I collected and that I also fully share. And it is that trying not to lose the root of Euskaltel was the priority, and in that is the government, and in that is this House with its agreements. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u97	Thank you, ma'am. In the absence of food, I drink a little, because at this hour... Look, Mr. Casanova, teaching you how to handle Spotify isn't modern, it's almost vintage. By the way, the robberies are reported to the D.A., don't come here and talk, go to the D.A. What I was saying is, it's about having companies, and look at all of you at the companies that have been set up in Euskadi, which are still creating, how they grow, how they create jobs. Look at the industrial policy that is causing employment growth, in GDP, etc., etc. That's what you have to look at. Not if one or the other buys it I don't know which bottom or bottom, which, by the way, all the funds they want is to win, as Mr Damborenea says. Itzarri too, or the fund that handles ELA will also want to win. I imagine you won't tell your workers, "hey, let's get into this bottom that's too chachi to lose money." That doesn't happen. And look at the Basque companies, which are also internationalizing, and they are buying companies abroad. This same week, Orkli bought a company in Italy, CAF a company in Sweden, AVS de Elgoibar bought from its American competitor, and this is over. And I do not know that the parliaments of those countries have met to ask the government to defend the companies that have bought Orkli, CAF or AVS. Because, in short, I don't know exactly what they want, I don't know exactly what they talk about when they talk about rooting. In fact, yesterday they asked the trade union representatives, and neither did they make it clear when it came to defining themselves. Are you talking about a company that still has the decision-making capacity in Euskadi? So do we. Pay your taxes in Euskadi? So do we. Or are they talking – what I think they are talking about – about public control of the company so that it is considered something like this as part of the institutions, like another public company, and that its workers are covered as if they were public employees? Well, I think we disagree about that. Because we'd be talking about very different things. And Euskaltel is not a public enterprise. It's not, and it shouldn't be. Although its existence and the wealth and employment it has generated, which has generated much so far, is due to a public intervention, of course, which at some point had to give way, because Euskaltel, I insist on what I have said before, is not Osakidetza, and it gives a service like dozens of telephone operators throughout the world. And the root you must have is nothing more than the one I said to be the seat here, to make the decisions here. 'Cause even, have you guys noticed?: he has not left here, but neither the Basque Parliament, representative of the citizens, has contracted with Euskaltel his telephone. Nor has the Basque Government, the representative body of the citizens, contracted with the company which, as you have said, was created with the money of all the citizens. Well, look at how things are going, look at how complicated the competitive world is. Because basically the debate is the business model, that's the debate. You believe that, if not all, some or many must be public. Now, they won't tell us what they are either. Are they all? Or a few? Or because Euskaltel and La Naval and not, I don't know, Pérez workshops? Why not? Because some do? They don't have the definite criterion. Our model is to drive an ecosystem conducive to industry with R & D, with training, and, at certain times, when there is a specific structural need and there are public funds, to drive a certain company to create another ecosystem around that company...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u98	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u99	... or that technology that generates a new model, as has been done with Gamesa, with ITT, with ACB, companies that have triumphed and are operating in the system. And just to finish, look, Mr. Hernández, you've asked us twice to listen to what the representative of the Workers' Commissions said yesterday. And I invite you too. I invite you to listen when I read you the two motions for resolutions that we have brought in today by compromise and, man, thanked me, he told me, and you are a witness, that they were very well. He didn't congratulate me because he cut himself, but he was about to congratulate me. That is to say, if the representative of the Workers' Committees, whom you have called for to be listened to carefully, said that the motion for a resolution that we are bringing here today is very well, it is logical that you too support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. Yeah, wait a minute. Let's do porn. Wait. Yeah. How? Apart from the fifth? Okay. Then we voted one, two, three, four. points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u101	So the first four points were rejected. Next we vote for our fifth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 18; contraries, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u102	So the fifth point has not been accepted. Next thing we'll vote for the full line of Podemos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 29; the contrary, 45; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u103	So, it's not supposed to be a full-correction of Podemos together. And finally, we'll vote for the middle-term correction of the Basque Populars and the Basque Socialists and the Euccanists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u104	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. I interrupt the entire meeting till about four-fifteen. The meeting was interrupted at fourteen o'clock in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-six.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u105	We'll start the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "EHG, and together with the other proposition of the Parliamentary Podemos, which is to be found in the production of the Incencies produced by the Enpresians abroad. Discipline and final resolution. And now, in Martínez, representing the Podemos team together, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u106	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. To tell you the truth, I am very sorry to have come to this tribe, because it is a subject of great industry, because it is the subject I like and the chances of agreement, and because I think they are. It's not just in this law, it's a theme that's been working for a long time. It's not the first time we've spoken of this plenon, not even on the committees. But the moment we've come to a deal is probably the most likely time we've ever been close to it. It's about creating the impacts of companies abroad, and it's not a caprice of Podemos or EH Collect, nor of the Basque Coordination or of the M.L. There has been a lot of people who have suffered the waters of human rights during the past few years, in most cases, because they have suffered the results produced by trasnational companies and commercial dynamics. Many women parliamentarians will be reminded of that famous article 169 of the ILO Convention on the right of consultation; how many times have the people who have been in this Parliament for many years, and how many countries have come to tell us the same thing. Human rights abuses such as threats, killings, displacements, or others that may be minor in comparison to them, such as attacks on the right to water or basic supplies, through such easy things, that also happen here and we also denounce them, such as price manipulation or arbitrary cuts, as is the case, for example, in Guatemala with Unión Fenosa. Of course all companies don't do these things, we always say it in committee – it seems we have to repeat it like a mantra – but they're not drops in an ocean either. It is the very dynamic of capital that is producing more and more spaces of impunity, of deregulation, where that capital acts in a voracious way with people and nature. And what we are asking, no more or less, is regulation and doing from where we can, which is here and now, nothing more and nothing less, regulation and coherence in the Basque Country of the common good. Why do we ask for this and what are we based on? In fact, in some documents made by the government itself. A year ago, Euskadi Basque Country 2030, our initiative is based on the fact that the tambien en el marco de referencia para coherecia de Políticas para el desarolallo en el Pais Vasco. Even in this analysis, financed by public money: The Koordination of Euscadian GGKE did it. The diary is an integral and indivisible machine, and it has brought it back to the table again to have to reach all the fields of patient development in accordance with what the corresponding scope of reference to the consistency of the beautiful eucalyptic developments was previously stated. That is to say, the bearable development must be effected indirectly, rather than as a partial policy. All these parties, even in outward action, are working in some countries and collective in order to create certain formulas. A few enterprises have already taken place in this line. For example, the contractor of the Transnational corporations of the United Nations, or the centre of evaluated inclosures, which the Enpresions of Catalonia produce abroad, or the law which was tried in France. Consistency, that's what we were asking and what we're asking in this non-law proposition. Consistency, because we have seen it in the negotiation: some areas of the government go through one lane and other areas of the government go through another. Or maybe they're going in the opposite direction, and that can't be done. We were willing and willing to slow down. At first we gave up the sanctioning capacity we were talking about and everyone was telling us, with a sometimes paternal tone, "no, that can't be done, that can't be done." We gave that up, and I think it was giving up the crown jewel of this initiative, in exchange for buying a frame that sounds good – I have to admit – but from which we don't know the detail, we don't know the letter. The framework of the future Basque business and human rights plan, which was already approved in the planning of the Basque Cooperation Agency. We bought to go in there, to walk slower, it was worth the effort. But of course, we are asked to give up everything. I want to understand that what I was saying before the pressures of different areas of government, I want to understand – although I am not here now – that the pressures of Mrs Tapia's department have a lot to do with this. We have seen it in other areas as well. What we asked for, I say again, was coherence. It had three points and it has three points this proposal not of law; I speak in the past, because, for what we have previously transferred the speakers, it will not be approved, or we have surprises. It was to review and condition the relations we have with countries that are violating human rights. You will have heard me say more than once that I and my group are in favour of the total boycott of the genocidal State of Israel, for example. We're just saying: review and condition those relationships. To promote good internationalization practices based on the change of grant policy and the promotion of good practices. I repeat, on a very clear basis, the same three documents as I have taught before: the policy coherence document of the Government itself, the 2030 Agenda, including the adaptation of the 2030 Agenda of Euskadi – with which we know that we are particularly critical, as we make clear in this forum – and also the internalization document of the NGO Coordinator herself. And, well, three o'clock they've been told no. There is an ambiguous wording that may look good in the amendment, but those who know what is behind, because we know that it is totally insufficient. And point number three, which was the mummy. And finally, and that's what we were giving up in the event that there was an agreement, there was the issue of sanctions. We were, of course, giving up for now because it is not worth having a relatively good policy of international cooperation and a model of corporate internationalisation that is on the other hand or in the opposite direction. It is not worth having a very good policy coherence document, which this Government has, and which is even earlier, but which remains in Lehendakaritza. It's not worth us. Consistency, everything. Nor is it worth having passed this law, a law which was published on Wednesday, 9 January 2008, which states that the Basque Government, in its policies of promotion and support for companies, will not cooperate in any way with those natural or legal persons engaged in the production, marketing and financing of weapons. And on March 27, 2019, Mrs Tapia replied that the companies Aernnova, ITP and Sener received public subsidies from the Basque Government. And SAPA, in 2017 no, but in previous years yes. Therefore, and I am finishing, this model of internationalization has the days counted. It's going to be the same as with the climate change negators. That is why coherence from a country as small as ours is important. We have a model of internationalisation which is a tool by which governments, in this case the Basque Government, intend to exit the recessions that we have in the system, and to put almost all eggs in the export basket has their macroeconomic risks as well. We combine the capacity of the companies that are based here – which does not mean that they are Basques; we have also seen this morning, with Euskaltel's debate, what can happen in this deregulated world – with those companies being able to compete in market niches that are increasingly smaller, that are increasingly smaller, and that is why they are dwindling, and our companies are struggling in a framework of profitability and competitiveness, which always, always, always does that logic, what makes human, labour and environmental rights always stay on the second side. We had the opportunity, therefore, of a great agreement, which would serve for today, for this legislature and also especially for tomorrow's path, for those great country agreements which are also needed. But, well, the true face of politics is unfortunately this too. As I have said before, as we have seen this morning, yes, PNV, yes, PSE, and Poptulars will vote together, and we'd like to know where that pincer stayed on my team. We don't see him at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u107	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u108	Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome, friends from outside. Yesterday we had a really interesting scene here in the parliament. Amaia Pérez was held of Oroly at the Enplegu and Polic Society Committee. And then he told us about a crisis or a paradigma change or the necessity of it. We ought to be talking about the nicest things that will place the support of life in the centre, but we still meet the pretty ones who aim to collect capitals and profits. So we should change the direction of the nicest ones we have. That policy that continues to be sustained by the unpaid work of women and sustained, also, by those southern countries that are trying to get us those few..., baliabide fossil gutxi horiek gureganatzeko azken spolioetan ari garta beraien herriadeetan. Beti was a binomial beat borrokan galtzen ateratzen direnen alboan egon beharrean, kapitalaren mesdetan Egypt jarratazzen diren politicikekin. We are in conflict between Esamos' el conflicto capital-vida, life and capital, and the present day we made an attempt to plan this change of direction. As we were saying, at the moment at which fossil resources are exhausted, so many Thracians have begun to manufacture, others, and we must declare... That these transnational corporations develop a global governance structure in favour of these hegemonic values, involving multilateral agencies, regional, state and local public institutions and also illegal actors. The constant murder of the defenders of human rights is being committed, and we see it constantly on the committee of Human Rights, or in the company of Colombia every day. And their two-thirds are the defenders of the earth. They're environmental defenders. It is the price for defending the land that others are trying to plunder; two out of three murdered activists belong to environmental movements. Since 2014, more than 800 murders have been reported, and this is looking at the data in mid-2018. By mid 2019, we can only mourn more deaths. The Front Line Defenders report on repression and coercion in some Latin American countries shows that – even today to be updated – it is a repressive practice peculiar to a continent, the Latin American continent, which attracts the attention of economic and business powers because of its natural resources, and how the state powers ignore the rights of indigenous peoples, among others, in some areas of Honduras – which we know well about the situation – Mexico, Colombia – which we also know well about the situation – or Brazil, among others. And women, they are the main defenders of life. And yesterday also said Amaia Pérez Orozco: precisely these defenders of everyday life, of good living, are the ones who are putting their bodies to defend life, and therefore are victims of rape, sexual abuse, harassment of their families, are exposed to campaigns of contempt which question, for example, their family commitments. And here let me remember the Berta Cáceres case. Amaia Pérez of Oro said very well: they place them in the centre of life, and sometimes we do not perceive what they are fighting, and in many countries they are paying their lives. Ecologists in Action point out that the remedy for this scourge is to promote and establish legally binding national and international regulatory frameworks on transnational corporations; or they also talk about, for example, a law of diligence of life, which obliges companies to establish risk analysis in their supply chains. There is no legal framework – they say – that obliges companies to comply with human rights, so they can do things abroad that they would not do here. And in this sense the proposition that we made was not to be criminalized, as we have often said, that our policies for development should go methodically along with those policies which we make the internationalization, because it is necessary that some tools should take possession of the economic, social, and environmental dimensions of the tolerable human development to occupy them with human rights. We have frame, but no equipment. And, as has been well said, we brought three points to this proposition: On the other hand, in the politics of money, in this case, we proposed to help those who were making proper proposals in the positive sense; and in the evaluation of a evaluation we did not close, because it is the most important for us, because we have a space, where a space will be given, and where this preparation will be required for the desktop. And, of course, it was very important for us also to discuss public policies in the same way, and, as we were told, we were even ready to abandon this crime of punishment, which was important to us, in favour of one's agreement and agreement. But it wasn't possible, and it's true that we're sad because we had a feeling, that we could. Because we know that yes, that this is a structural bet, that faced with dogmas or with inertias or simplifications we need a constant exercise to question what we are doing, a critical reflection of the path we are taking and a proposal for shared diagnoses, proposals and agendas, references to which to direct our efforts, and it is up to us at this moment to be imaginative. That's what Amaia Pérez Orozco told us: we're going to go through a place we don't know, but let's be imaginative and do it together. As Gonzalo Fernández says in Alternatives to corporate power Porque es lo que buscamos, agendas givepadoras para todas las ciudadas de este mulundo. I should sum up what we proposed to-day with conversation and courage. Courage, look at everything. The example of Catalonia has been mentioned, but there is also a plan of the State of Spain, which we may doubt or dispute, but there is a plan; there is a really interesting law in France; because this must be the direction, let us become the example of the radical change, and in this sense we have ended ourselves with sadness, but with all determination, with this doctrine of surrender and ofgnanat, for the rights of the people and collective people who will live in happy life, and we will continue to carry on these proposals with all determination and illusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr Pricee, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u110	President, ladies and gentlemen. We share and advocate that the defence of economic, social and environmental human rights must be comprehensive, in Euskadi and outside of Euskadi, always observing and working to ensure that these objectives are met in trade relations, in financial relations and also in subsidies and public aid to businesses. A task which, without any doubt, must be collective, with the involvement of society, with evaluation procedures, giving public accounts of progress, impacts, non-compliances, solutions and sanctioning measures. And all of this follows the three principles defined by the United Nations: protecting, respecting and remedying. In this political commitment, training, awareness-raising, advice, interinstitutional collaboration and the leadership of the Basque Government must also be at the heart of all the other actors involved mentioned above. In this commitment all governments must work, as Spain has done, with special attention to transnational corporations. Globalization breaks down borders, and also makes it more difficult to control business conduct and certain economic and social conduct. We are obliged to address this reality, to act in the face of this reality on the abuses and excesses that may occur over globalization, and to defend social and fair competition, based on universal values, and therefore in that commitment we are always socialists. What is happening in our country, what is happening in Euskadi, is within our competence. What happens outside our country is our business. And, for that, we are also co-responsible. In the world in which we live, the violation of human rights and environmental damage and aggression are more frequent and extensive than we know or imagine. Faced with this reality also implies active work by the European Union and all its institutions. The generation of employment and wealth, where it occurs, must be accompanied by quality employment and wealth generating equal opportunities. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights already has guiding principles on business and human rights, as I mentioned earlier, to protect, respect and remedy. But we also know that those guiding principles find important gaps in access to justice when there is a human rights violation and therefore progress needs to be made in that area. We need international instruments to confront this reality and, among them, a binding legal instrument that has been discussed and claimed in many forums and occasions. We need protocols to share actions between diplomatic authorities and human and environmental rights defenders in the states where Spanish companies operate. Economic coverage should be given to protection programmes for human rights defenders. The voluntary accession of multinational companies should be encouraged in order to guarantee those human rights, which were willing to submit to such monitoring of respect for human rights. Much needs to be done to ensure that economic development, employment and competitiveness have a human face and defend social and ecological efficiency. The reduction of rights, precariousness, insecurity of people or the destruction of natural resources must be avoided. Knowing that these problems have a global dimension and require concerted action at this level, it can be provided by all institutions. From this Parliament, from the Basque Government, from the Government of Spain, from the European Union, from international bodies. And by referring to this Parliament and this government, indeed, it can also be done from here. It can contribute to dialogue and agreements with the private sector in these directions; it can contribute by completing the strategic framework already established by the Basque Government; it can contribute with meeting and dialogue spaces of different institutional and social actors; it can contribute with awareness-raising and training actions and tools for different public and private actors; and it can contribute with follow-up, advice and accountability measures. In these terms, this political commitment is where we have positioned the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. This is the offer we make to all the groups in this House, and we hope and hope that we can count on the support of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u111	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u112	Yes, good afternoon to all. The head of the table, the president, the chief physician, all the members of the legislature, good afternoon. The propos have introduced an initiative here today about business and human rights, and I shall begin to read our correction, for here it is said that it was ambiguous, and I mean by our words. "On account of the document already approved by the Basque MUGY, which is established in a fixed and time, in the field of human rights, demands the Basque Congress to constitute the most strategic sphere already established. For this purpose, let him make a plan of activity in a year's time, and make answer of human rights to the international obligations which are in this field, considering the three posts which the United Nations have defined: protect, respect, and observe." I believe, therefore, that it is not ambiguous, but very exact, and that it marks precise duties in the Government. To say this, I will try the global context that we put on the table, and I will endeavour to make an argument of three things: on the one hand international law, and on the other the one that's making fun of it, and the third, our company, the company of the Basque Company, is doing what they're doing outside. International law, to make a little history, very labor-lab Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact Global Compact Plan Continuing with the international framework, in 2011 – already mentioned by Mr Prieto as well – guiding principles were adopted at the United Nations on business and human rights and a forum was created in this regard, which meets annually in Geneva and from which the movement that is giving rise in the different states to regional and national regulations, plans and actions was observed. We can already see business and human rights plans in Great Britain, Sweden, Denmark and Spain in July 2017. And also outside Europe, in Chile or Indonesia. There was also a general comment in 2017, a general comment by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations, on the obligations of States under the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in the context of their business activities. We therefore have enough consolidated instruments to say that change is already here. Work is under way on this change at the international level. Companies are changing, they are turning from corporate social responsibility to corporate human rights responsibility. States are already reporting on their international obligations to United Nations committees, taking into account the actions of their companies in third countries and the promotion and control of respect for the human rights of their companies in those third countries. Secondly, the second block I wanted to talk about is what our Government is doing, what our institutions are doing. And here too, in this rostrum, it has already been my turn to defend on other occasions issues relating to global frameworks, such as climate change, SDGs, etc. And I'm not gonna repeat myself, I'm gonna go too fast. But I want to highlight: the Strategic Framework for Policy Coherence 2016, which has already been discussed; the Government Plan itself fully aligned around sustainable human development; the entire Government Plan of the Legislature, the Eleventh Legislature, aligned in that sustainable human development; the Basque Agenda 2030; of course, the Internationalisation Plan 2017-2020, which already incorporates the SDGs with a human rights approach and which is also perfectly incardinated in the Basque Country 2020 strategy, which also provides for a system of monitoring and evaluation of the activity deployed within its framework. On the part of the areas of human rights and cooperation, the IV Master Plan for Development Cooperation 2018-2021, where emblematic initiatives are proposed in "Auzo(lan)kideak giza eskubideen alde". And one of them is enterprise and human rights This Master Plan for Cooperation marks this line of action but does not set a date for it, and in our amendment this action is taken again and this period of one year is set for it and a number of very clear objectives are also set for it. Yesterday, the Internationalization Agency signed an agreement with Cofides – today it is in the press and in press releases and on websites – to boost the financing of projects with social and environmental impact abroad taking into account sustainable development, sustainable development goals. EUR 100 million for this fund, for this work of impetus, by the hand of Cofides, which is the only financial entity that is defined by the United Nations itself as an innovative entity, accredited to be able to work with the green climate fund or with the European Union's foreign investment plans. We therefore see that the Basque Government is also in the process of dealing with all these issues. At the hearing that in December Deputy Councillor Zarraonandia had occasion to do in this Parliament's Committee on External Action, it has already been extended to a number of issues, and I will not repeat them, but I do want to point out that what at that time, in December, the Councillor told us was going to be done or what they were planning to do was done. He told us that in the calls for grants or in the call for aid Sakondu and Zabaldu we were going to contemplate these kinds of questions: already they are, in the calls of 2019 they are already contemplated. And the Basque Country tender support platform for Basque companies is also under way. terse Y Basque companies go to other countries and try to move their model to where they are located. They move the patterns of labor, environmental and all order of common use in Euskadi. Our companies, also because of their typology and characteristics, are not looking for cheap prices. They're looking to open markets. These are parameters that are different from those that can move companies such as, for example, textile or other companies. These companies are looking for that market opening, and we can say that they scrupulously comply with local rules. Por tants, we are fully convinced of the importance of this matter, and it is also time to encourage it. But, as I have shown, things are going. We have a good context, and we know how to take more steps. This is why our proposal, this special planning, is, in a certain period of time, the planning which has been mentioned, and the plan which will be accurate, as well as in our corrections. Formization, sensitisation, participation, precautions are there to be taken care of. They're in there and I hope he gets tested like that. The correction, therefore, is a proposed one, placed on a marked road, and useful to be resisted. That's why we'll protect ours and ask for your protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. The next round of the group that hasn't issued any correction, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u114	Yes, thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Well, we've already talked about this, the truth is, we've done it in a repeated way. Also in committees, we have talked about it in the Committee on European Affairs and External Action, we have talked about it in the Committee on Human Rights, we have also touched on the discussions we have had with other government documents, and I believe we do, that we understand that the initiative or the matter or the subject before us is of interest. Every day there is a growing demand on business, economic and industrial actors operating in the economy and in the generation of employment that practices be better and better, more generally in line with respect for labour rights, with non-exploitation, with decent wages and with the right working conditions. We talk about this in general terms, and of course we have to keep talking about it and we have to keep trying to ensure that it is guaranteed within the framework of outside activity of companies, of our companies, of Basque companies in this case. And we can also go on recognizing and we can go on seeing that these measures or that this situation is improving. At least the measures of control and analysis, the knowledge of how it operates abroad by the companies every day is easier to identify and know, so that those inefficiencies or those difficulties or even unethical attitudes are known to everyone and do not hide in the distance, because there is more control every day. Well, I am not going to repeat it, we have already talked about the programmes that exist at international level, under the auspices of the United Nations or other agencies. The national governments of the states of the European Union also have in their well-established road map, in their areas of development cooperation and external relations, the fact that companies are ambassadors in many cases from countries, states or territories and that, in this regard, they have to take a step of responsibility, and I believe that more progress is being made every day. That is why I also believe that this initiative has been interesting in substance, but it is moving in a kind of structural mistrust of companies and in a general appreciation more of non-compliance and more of the possibility of violating human rights than of trust in good practice or accommodation for coherence, and that is not the case, of course. I believe that basically – we have no doubt – there is much more consistency and good practice on the part of Basque companies and a responsible, business, commercial, economic attitude, rather than the distrust of understanding that they can hide criminal, or criminal, or unethical or immoral attitudes. In that regard, it is clear that, for that very reason, we thought that the initiative could have an interesting fund of action and we thought that both proposers and amendments would reach an agreement on this subject, but we see that it has not been possible, and we find the amendment of all the groups supporting the Government more in line with reality or needs. Knowing the situation, or trying to know it, or making an analysis, the non-law proposal of Bildu and Podemos offers us a maximalist approach, with the creation of administrative structures around all this and with the introduction of sanctions, although then it seemed that they could be withdrawn. It is very difficult to create an administrative structure for control of these characteristics; it must be entrusted to other possibilities. I believe that, at this time, above all, it is not realistic – then I will say why – in relation to the situation. Before all these issues are so maximalistic, I think we could well instruct the Basque Government – I think that is what is going to be done, that we know – that action plan with regard to companies abroad and with regard to the demand for how international parameters must be met. Not only are we talking about social responsibility through the UN, but we are talking about the millennium's own sustainable goals on how goal number eight is very clear on how to create employment at international level and on those keys. This means that, in this sense, the elaboration of this plan will allow us several things: first, to know the situation and to make an analysis of the reality, and that analysis will give keys to take steps in case the activity of the companies abroad does not move in reasonable parameters and of respect. We understand that the activity of Basque companies abroad does move within those reasonable and respectful parameters in relation to what we are talking about, and that we too saw with interest, because we also asked even Lehendakari in his day in Parliament. We did so at the Government's appearance in relation to what had been presented to us by the NGO Coordinator, following the studies done by the Basque NGO Coordinator on the analysis of the business policy of the Basque Government in 2014-2016, as we requested the Government's presence in the External Action Commission, logically, to support and to follow up on those mistrusts, those doubts that arose in that report, because we wanted to know how it dealt with them, what analysis the Basque Government was doing. And there we had the opportunity to know details of what the Government's Internationalization Plan 2017-2020 is – they have already referred to it, I will not refer to it – from where to continue to move. Well, let's understand that in that framework and in that plan, and knowing that you are aware of a situation on which you can analyze and move much further, although you are already moving forward and concepts are being handled when it comes to linking companies, because you talk about interesting concepts. But we need to know how to develop and we need to know and we need to train companies, surely, and we need to have dialogue with them, and there has to be understanding between companies, governments and human rights organizations, which, of course, fulfil an essential task. Because that same NGO Coordinator document serves us all, it serves the Government, it serves us all, and it certainly serves businesses to feel and know that they are being observed. But well, to these new concepts, the economy of peace, criteria put into practice in relation to that economy of peace My group, the Group of the European People's Party, is confident that Basque companies will do well abroad. We trust you fully. Basque business culture has always been linked to interesting positions of personal development too, close to the worker. And we have no doubt that this attitude of Basque companies will also have continuity in the business-worker relations in other parts of the world. We trust that. We also know some experiences. We understand that that's interesting and we're going to bet on this. We know that there are risks and that there are situations, of course, that will be complicated and that it will be necessary to analyse and know. I say it again, many times companies are the best ambassadors in a country and they are the ones that give the image of that country, and we want to have a good image out there, so our companies have to give it and we have to demand it, of course. That is why we also do not share one of the points of the original initiative to establish a system of sanctions for Basque companies in their activity abroad. Let us see, on the one hand, that it is impossible to create a comprehensive monitoring system with the administrative conditions or resources that an autonomous government has. It is impossible to track all that commercial, industrial and business activity around the world. That is, if guarantees cannot be followed up, it is very difficult to sanction, because there must be procedures with guarantees. And second, because I don't think it's necessary. I do not think it is necessary in relation to that comprehensive procedure. That is to say, in that sense, that part of the GNP was a factor of mistrust which I believe must be neutralized in relation to the activities of companies. Vice-Councillor Zarraonandia said that when he appeared in the Committee on European Affairs and External Action. That is, if a counselor says so, we will have to listen to him: they do not report human rights violations by Basque companies to the Government. Well, we also have to understand that that's a good thing. Just as you don't know him 100%, we're going to assume that it's very difficult to control everything, but in any case, that also gives relevant and important data to understand that we have to apply appropriate, proportional and non-maximumist instruments on this issue. And we have also said this many times, in relation to the knowledge of human rights abuses and violations or criminal attitudes, because there are also the courts of justice, where we can turn to each and every one, and, of course, the one who identifies it in a clear way, in relation to neutralizing bad practices or human rights violations beyond the borders. That is, that the courts will always be the courts if such bad practices in human rights or in the commission of crimes are observed. Well, that's our diagnosis. It is an important issue, indeed. I thank Mr Martínez and Mrs Etxebarrieta for bringing the matter to Parliament. We have spoken about it, we have also been concerned about the considerations that have been made to us by non-governmental organizations, but I believe that we have sufficient instruments with which we are going to adopt today, with which my group is going to adopt today's plenary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u115	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, together Podemos, Mr Martínezlin, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u116	Thank you. Mr Prieto, then, after listening to your speech, I encourage you to vote, as you say, on the original initiative. Because I see in the literality of his words, or in the vast majority of them, that he agreed with the original initiative. And, Mrs Oregi, – the truth is that we have talked about it these days – at no time, and if I do, if I have said it here in this rostrum, I have said that nothing is done, I have not said that the government is doing nothing. In fact, since before entering this Parliament, only the coherence document is an important step, but it must then be carried out. And I think it's insufficient. And the main debate here is that of volunteering. For us one of the toughest things, without using that language, was the issue of sanctions. We were just betting on volunteering, that whoever did it right would be rewarded. In other words, in the social clauses, that is, in the tendering clauses, there are clauses in which, well, whoever does it well has more score. This is within the competitive framework in which we are moving. But if we compare initiatives, where could we have come from and where, through what we had talked about so far? Because it was a generic but important revision speech, of rethinking the government's trade and external relations, of rethinking a little whether we are interested or not in certain trade relations with certain countries, I will now make a reference. The second is this one of the subsidies and it is not in the amendment of the Basque Nationalist and Socialist Group, it is not. So, of course, by asking us to vote on that, we are being asked for a vote of confidence in a plan that we do not know. Because if we have to depend on whether, well, Mr Zarraonandia – if I am not mistaken – who is responsible for that subsidy that you mentioned, has a special sensitivity, if the next vice-advisor has the sensitivity of a ficus, because that subsidy, that subsidy line, can change. So, we're here to make structural public policies. What does that mean? The two opposition leftist groups had bought the framework of that Basque business and human rights plan. We know, moreover, what we are playing at and what they cost and stop costing here the agreements We had bought the framework, to which we wanted to put our imprint. So, we're not going to endorse something that, first of all, we don't know, beyond the sound of music. And I left my cell phone upstairs, but I was going to quote, speaking of coherence, that five years ago a trip from the cooperative federation to Israel was suspended. We have received information that this trip will be repeated again. Today I have recorded a question to the Government to ask for information on this trip, not to go to Israel to know the small agricultural cooperatives, but to talk about the good doing of Israel in the recovery of the Hebrew, in the maintenance of correct relations with the population and the environment, a reference also to the development of women's rights which speaks of Israel's unfolding – if I am not mistaken – in a context surrounded by authoritarianism and surrounded by dictatorships. I don't know, I think I'm more genocidal than Israel's. And setting Israel as an example on that journey, actually, I think it's an example of bad practice. Now I will put a good one, which is the Mondragon Group and the work it is doing with the peace process in Colombia. But I'm going to put another bad one, also from Colombia. Year 2013, Hidroituango: Investigate the Basque companies that were involved in that Hidroituango project in Colombia. That is why we are saying that the steps are totally inadequate, that we think they have been very short, that we are not going to give a free endorsement to a government policy in which we cannot participate. We thought that it could have been a very large virtuality for this Parliament to approve this transaction, although I do not know what the People's Group would have done. But let us make sure that the vast majority of this Parliament had approved the compromise we were working on. What a great lesson we would be giving for the next legislatures, in which some and some of us are certainly not here, but that policy would be approved and with an outward image, this time yes, of a country. And it is the second time that, with a foreign policy issue, as also happened with the European vision document, we are the opposition who have to bring the debates to Parliament, even though we know that we have an opportunity to lose them. But we believe that this is the House where we should go when we talk about a Basque business and human rights plan. Look, that is the difference between a plan of the Basque Government and a Basque plan, or between a vision of Euskadi on Europe and a vision of the Basque Government on Europe. If we want to have visions as a country, let's make them among all of us. And as we are going to bring back similar initiatives after the summer, we will talk about it again. To comrade Barrio: obviously there is a great rapprochement in some of the positions in the general speeches, also when we talk about Basque companies, there are obviously companies that do things well, but we are also in the territory of the state with more labor conflict. In other words, let us also put a little into context the good doing of Basque companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u117	Thank you, Mr. Coon. Deputy EH Collector, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u118	Yeah. On the one hand, as has been shown, we see also in a frame already built and accepted, at the time of making an accepted plan, that we shall participate in doing our contribution at the moment when it comes to us. But at this moment we have tried to be a maximist and ambitious, but at the same time we have tried to negotiate. We've also introduced the whole plan to go down, negotiate, and at the end we've met a non-integer. Before this we also make up our minds to follow our own frame, though we shall endeavour to carry this into so many places, and we shall make our contribution at the moment when this plan, which you shall make between three parties today. Global Compact Global Compact And I just wanted to end one case, with the case of the Tehuantepec isthmus, I don't know if you know it, it's in the Gulf of Mexico, in the Pacific Ocean. It is located in the state of Oaxaca, in the southwest of Mexico. It is a region of 220 kilometers in length, four million hectares that houses the greatest biological and ethnic diversity in the country of Mexico. Five indigenous peoples inhabit these lands and, given their wind conditions and topographical characteristics, is one of the areas with the greatest potential for wind power generation worldwide. Not in vain, in the isthmus of Tehuantepec is built the largest wind corridor in Latin America. In this wind corridor participate Iberdrola, Gas Natural Fenosa, Acciona and Renovalia. And, well, the truth is that I recommend – it is read very easily – the document that talks about this case prepared by Ecologists in Action, with Calala-Women's Fund, where they also do a gender analysis of the impact of this project and others, but I wanted to bring this one that talks about the work that Iberdrola has been doing since 2008 until now. Iberdrola has become the main private producer of electricity in Mexico, has inaugurated two plants in La Ventosa under the name of Parques Eolicos México I y II, and, well, I will move directly to the social conflictivity and violation of human rights in that area. All communities have been denouncing the systematic violation of rights by wind transnationals operating in the area. The first thing they highlighted was the lack of information and transparency with which companies act to force the signing of contracts for the local population. The absence of prior, free and informed consultation. Deceptions are added. The signing of abusive leases, non-compliance with agreed payments, as well as the lack of information on actual socio-ecological impacts, in this case strategies of interference, division and destruction of the social fabric. In the specific case of Iberdrola, the company has been accused of corrupting both municipal officials and some peasant leaders who would have been bribed to act in favour of the company. Communities have denounced the invasion and expropriation of land, and, in addition, social organizations have accused companies such as Iberdrola and Acciona of using police force against mobilizations. And it doesn't give me time to read everything but I wanted to end the most serious fact that it was the murder in 2013 of an APPG member who was killed as part of the protests against the windmill. Although the company was disconnected from the facts by means of a press release, there is no doubt that the murder occurred in a context of conflict arising from its activities. Let us be brave and move forward so that these kinds of situations do not occur again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u120	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Martínez said that the main thing in the debate is volunteering, and I would say that it is not volunteering, which is effectiveness. Because that's exactly where the biggest difference is. In the concepts, as you have rightly pointed out, we are very close, because we cannot define the things that are in a way different from what they are. Therefore, what is the value of human rights, how they should be applied, how to defend an economy that respects the values of work, the values of dignity, of opportunities; that protects and respects the environment; that fair competition is made, that economic competitiveness also has social benefits, that wealth is not only an exponent of modernity, but also distribution and that is equitable sharing. Well, all that sort of thing we can't handle differently, but when you come here to this House, along with EH Bildu, to bring a proposal for it to be taken over by this House and for it to be taken over by the government, you have to measure what the size of what you're proposing is. And it's in the dimension of what you're proposing where the difference is and that's why we have a different political position. In Spain, you know that there is a National Business and Human Rights Plan, which is also recently approved, which has had a very intense job in the Congress of Deputies, because it has been very insistent on it. There are also aspects of intervention in this area, which are judicial in nature, extrajudicial in nature and legislative in nature. Well, another kind of complaint mechanism. And you know that debates always come together and that this is a problem that even exceeds the framework of a country, because we must follow the activity of transnational corporations, beyond Euskadi, beyond Spain, beyond even the European Union, because it expands across all continents. There is a unanimous claim in most countries to be able to act in such situations, even in those most advanced in this regard, including France, where they have important development, where there is always talk of the need for binding legal instruments. A demand for concerted action at the international level, and he knows that such cooperation and international ties and demands are essential in that regard. Of course, if you say that the Basque Government has instruments to follow the traceability of all business actions, of all the companies that export, if you propose that the Basque Government sanction, if you impose duties that have to do with international law, that have to do with even the ability to operate in other states, on other continents, of course, the situation is practically impossible. So, of course, politics has to have, not just concepts, not just ideas, it has to have dimension, and you pose a dimension that is very difficult to address from here. That is why we agree on the concepts, and that is why I believe that there is – let us say – a certain amount of agreement, not to say unanimity, to defend that protection of human rights and to ensure that the practices of our companies are consistent with those human rights. And so that this business activity is a reasonable activity for the people who operate in it, wherever they are, and that everyone has access to minimums, decent employment and conditions, to defend their wages, land, natural resources, not to be spoiled, etc. Anyway, in all that we agree. Of course, you cannot then send the Basque Government to solve the world. Similarly, Mr Urkullu, you have an interest in doing so, but it seems to me that the task is a little big and, therefore, what we have done in the amendment that we tabled by the Nationalist Group and we have been trying to figure out what can be done from here, all that set of concepts that we agree on. This is the issue, and I therefore believe that this is neither a cause for sadness nor disappointment, nor any of this, because I believe that the underlying agreement follows, that it is the political objective or objectives. And what happens is that the instruments must be adapted to the political reality of what a government of an autonomous community can do, no matter how much external action it has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u121	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u122	Yes, good afternoon again. Well, I do berean, nik ere you had to teenagers irizpideetan, Helburuetan eta gauza askotan eta Azkenean ez stationala ados jarri kalendarioan edo tresna konkretuetan momentu honetan. Gure zuzenketan eskatzen da plan hori, planingza hori, éta nik uste dut Elkarrekin Podemos éta EH Bildu ez daudela plan horren kontra. It's time for the hippies to say "peetan" and for the hippies to say "buddintzetan", crying "mugituko" on "buddintza horietan", "ba nik" you had to say "gaudela". Baina hemen Martínez Zatón jaunak esan du "we have to accept" or "we have to trust". Well, that's where it's picked up. It is a plan with a number of issues that it has to address, and it has a one-year deadline, and that would already mark that clear, concrete planning framework on top of the table. That one-year framework will put us at the start of the next parliamentary term, perfectly articulated so that we can work in an orderly manner on the issue of business and human rights. And besides, I think it's better to go on gradually. And that's how we all get strong together. It is better to move slowly, but with strength, generating consensus, and not moving forward with more abrupt or faster advances perhaps, but which generate rupture and disaffection. That can happen, as we are also seeing within the framework of the United Nations. It has been commented here that work is also under way, or is on the table, on the possibility of making this an international legally binding treaty, which is a line of work parallel to those guiding principles which are adopted and which are on the table. The difference is that the guiding principles are ratified by the Human Rights Council and are widely accepted by member countries. And yet the documents that are emerging from this intergovernmental working group for a legally binding international treaty no longer generate so many accessions and therefore make it weaker. I believe that we here, from our responsibilities and from our responsibilities, have to work step by step to consolidate a way of doing, on which I believe – I insist – that we all agree on music and that we are going to agree on the letter, to the extent that we are seeing the drafts of that plan and the teamwork to develop that human rights plan. I'm sure we're gonna go find each other. And I always put in these questions the example of how we have worked for two decades on the environment, generating these consensuses, seeking voluntary accessions, seeking voluntary agreements with companies. Basque companies have done a truly exemplary job on this path – I am speaking from the late 1990s until now – and have shown that the competitiveness of companies is not contradictory with respect for the environment, in that case, and now they will also show that it is not incompatible with respect for human rights and human progress. I therefore encourage everyone to vote on our amendment, or at least not to vote against it, because I do not think anyone can say no to what is on the table. I invite you to overcome those mistrusts, I think there's enough data on the table to know this is serious. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. And finally, the Basque Popular doesn't have to speak. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote EHG and together the original text of the proposition as the Podemos did together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 28; the opponents are 43; the whites are 0,0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u124	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 43; the contrary, 28; white, 0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u125	So the full correction has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The same proposal as the Parlamentary People of Euscal, as the Parlamentarian Groups did, about regulating the telecommissions which lie on the mountains of public use, and which are managed by the Itel-SA. Discipline and final resolution. Madame Lopez de Octariz, representing the Basque Potula, is yours to present and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u126	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u127	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u128	This is not the first time we have spoken in this House about matters related to the administrative boards of Álava, also called local entities. The issue before us today is also not new to this House. Already in 2017 we spoke, both in committee and in this plenary, and we witnessed the disagreement that existed between the Basque Government and Itelazpi SA, a public telecommunications company, which provides services of general interest and occupies a public place for the location of its telecommunications centres. This public hill is managed by the administrative boards, with the supervision and advice of the Foral Diputación de Álava. The management of mountain resources is almost the only own income that these local authorities have; the rest is derived from financing aid from the Member State and, in some cases, also from the relevant municipalities. They are involved in the management of everything that pertains to the mountain. We talk about pastures, we talk about wood, roturos, also controlled systems for the collection of mushrooms and for the location of beehives, and they participate in rents for the occupation of their mountains in those places where wind farms have been installed. When the administrative boards and the Foral Diputación de Álava have tried to enter into conversation and reach agreements for the corresponding counterpart for the use of the mount for the installation of these centers, by Itelazpi the answer was always not, arguing that they are a public society, a public service, and systematically resorted to any attempt to regularize this situation, coming to resort to the orders that the Foral Diputación de Álava dictated to regulate the occupation of public mount by Itelazpi for the installation of the telecommunications centers. This House witnessed the appearance of the mayor of the Administrative Board of Ariñez, on whose mountains, on the public utility hill, on Mount Zaldiaran, is located a large telecommunications center, the most powerful of Álava. And he explained to us the treatment and treatment they were receiving from Itelazpi in this case. And the truth is that his constancy and full dedication made him submit a lawsuit, which then had a unique process. But in the end today we can say that this Administrative Board of Ariñez is charging since 2017 a canon for the location of this center and that we can give for good all the fight that at that time made Arantza and that it showed also in this Chamber. Then came also the application of the Administrative Board of Kontrasta, where a judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country of 14 July 2017 disassembled all the arguments that Itelazpi had used to not make effective the corresponding fee for use of public mount and gave the reason to the Provincial Council of Álava and the Administrative Board. In turn, on June 22, 2017, a non-law proposal was unanimously adopted in this House, which basically came to say that we urged the Basque Government to regulate the use of the occupied spaces, with the administrative boards, local entities, the Foral Diputación de Álava and the public company Itelazpi, respecting each other's competences. We also insisted that Itelazpi had to communicate to the administrative boards what use it was making, which users of that space had Itelazpi located there and that, in some way, a close relationship should be established towards these boards. The truth is that time was passing and, except for the Administrative Board of Ariñez and Kontrasta, one with sentence and the other also by the processing, which had already regularized this canon, and that of Lezama, which is in process, the rest of the boards had not moved at all towards the processing. It had been two years and we, in December, were presenting a question in this House, where we told the Basque Government to tell us what the situation was. And in December 2018 he told us that the situation was what he was telling them: that there was a city council, that of Asparrena, which had received a fee of 4,221 euros from Itelazpi since 2006; that then two municipalities – Lagran and Ribera Alta – had received an economic compensation for the settlement of the road to access the telecommunications center in the years 91 and 83. And then what I was saying to them, the Council of Kontrasta and the Council of Ariñez. We were therefore interpreting, and it is quite clear, that the agreement that was adopted in this House was not being complied with and that we understood that the necessary mechanisms should be promoted and activated in order for that agreement to be resumed and that those boards should be compensated for this use of public money and have resources for the management of that space, for which they are responsible. As I was telling you, the year 2019 and the time – two years, year and a half – had not moved almost a role in this area. What was right for us was to present this initiative to regularize the rest of the administrative boards that are occupied by Itelazpi's telecommunications centre, to value what the occupation is and to pay a fee, because we understand that it is just and necessary. The truth is that yesterday the deputy director of Itelazpi appeared and came to tell us that there was one before 2017 and one after, that they are now in another disposition, that they have been in contact with the Foral Diputación de Álava, that they have made a planning planning What we have done is to reach agreement on the part of all the groups since the initiative we had put forward. It seems to me that this is what I want to highlight and that it seems to me that it is valued, both with the groups that we are in this House and with our respective groups in the General Councils of Álava, which also have something important to say, since they are those directly affected by the management that the Chamber is doing and its impact on the administrative boards. We have reached an agreement which I am going to read to you, in which we say that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and public society Itelazpi, together with the Foral Chamber of Álava, to continue to promote or encourage, in the area of their competence, the procedure for regularising the use of telecommunications centres run by Itelazpi located in the mountains of public utility of Álava, in order to fix the corresponding compensations by means of the appropriate foral order. We urge the Foral de Álava to report and advise, before 30 September 2019, on both procedural aspects and the characteristics and parameters of the centres, to the local entities that have not at present regularized the use of telecommunications centres in their public utility mountains, in order to fix the corresponding compensations through the timely foral order. In the third point, we urge the Foral Chamber of Álava, within one year, to process, by way of foral order, the administrative procedures of the telecommunications centres located in mountains of public utility of Álava that are pending their regularization and in which the procedure of part is initiated. And finally, what we do is that this agreement is communicated, this non-law proposal and this compromise amendment, to the public society Itelazpi, to the Foral Diputación de Álava and to the local entities that have telecommunications centers managed by Itelazpi. What we have achieved is a commitment from the Álava Provincial Council so that, within a year, these entities that are due to regularize their telecommunications centres can ask, because it has to be at the beginning of them from part, that the procedure be initiated and that the Council issue the order. We believe that, as the groups – as I said – of the General Councils, which is a good agreement, have also valued this, and I would like to thank the Government and Mrs Larrauri for the patience she has had with the many documents I have been sending her until we have reached this text, and also the other groups, especially Mrs López de Arroyabe, who has also collaborated to get this text. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Łódź de Ocáriz. Passing on the turn of the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. López de Lariyabe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u130	Yes, thank you. Good evening, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. To-day in the Itelsubjugation, and it's not a coincidence. Yesterday we had the scene of the Xabier Arriet, the vice president of the Itelsubstre, sent by EH Collect. And we requested, on the one hand, that he had not done his duty, and on the other hand he had given a round refusal to go to the grand assemblies of Araba. I'm going to start by talking a little bit about the councils, which, as Mrs López de Ocariz just said, well, I think we need to emphasize their role, their super important role in the territory. They are very small local administrations, in fact they are the smallest; they are the closest to people, indeed; they are where the most assembly decisions are made and in the most democratic way possible. They are administrations where his own government is there voluntarily and where his own government does nothing but execute the mandates of the assembly itself. Local governments that, of course, maintain territorial balance, guarantee services, and, of course, defend heritage. They're the ones who definitely make territory. They are an example of governance, of that governance that we always talk about, of governance for the community, but of communal governance. Something that today, well, is gradually being lost and that, of course, it is up to us to defend. For all these reasons, we understand that the Basque Government, the Foral Diputación de Álava and public enterprises must be at the service of these entities. We could even talk about positive discrimination, on the part of the deep-rooted and important that they aim to manage and be able to fulfil their competences with all guarantees. The councils are guarantees of the already famous territorial balance that we so often talk about at the General Councils of Araba, but also here. Powers of the Councils? Mrs López de Ocáriz has just said this: management and exploitation. Public management of things, of the mountains; management much more sustainable than private, we only have to make a comparison with the management of the mountains in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. We just have to make that comparison to see how public management here has ensured a different way of doing things: a sustainable and sustainable use of resources. This gives us not only economic benefits, which are often few, but also environmental benefits and, of course, social benefits in the face of private management, which is the opposite. Well, we can agree on all these readings. I don't think we'd get into any discussion about that. But today we have to talk about Itelazpi again. And that's what we're coming to. And let's talk about Itelazpi, his attitude, his new assumption of responsibilities. And it's funny, because when we go on the web and put "Itelazpi", the first thing that comes to us and puts us is "responsible diffusion" and it gives me what to think. Responsible broadcasting is anything but what Itelazpi has done in recent years with the councils in Álava. Since its creation, Itelazpi has been installing little by little antennas in mountains, in public mountains, indeed, in a way, I would say that little clean and in a way in which in most cases it has been without the permission of the councils, and we do not forget that this territory, that this land is private. It's as if anyone here, in our house with our vest and our garden, had someone come to us and put on an antenna and we didn't even know who the antenna is, not even if we're going to charge for the antenna and what services the antenna provides. We wouldn't allow it as part of the property. Well, exactly the same thing happens to the councilmen. And it is more serious, not only have they not reported on the occupation, they have reaped an economic benefit. What else is left? Well, there's another one left. It's left that he's been subleted. From here you can see Zaldiaran and we know that in Zaldiaran there are 12 sublet antennas for which each year more than a million euros is charged. So, not only has it not been executed in the cleanest way, but it goes up and up and down. It's curious. I think it's the example of how not to do things and less of a public enterprise. And today I will thank the two councils of Ariñez and Kontrasta, not only for the attitude they have had, but because they have been courageous. Because a council gets into a legal fight against the government, against the parliament and, above all, against a public enterprise, because I can admit that it's not easy, and I don't think anyone would like to wage a battle with David against Goliath. But in that battle, I'm going to talk about Kontrasta, specifically. He won it legally, he won it to Itelazpi. And, well, winning a battle demanding accounts and recognizing that you have won is fine, when Itelazpi has shown contempt, has shown none, has shown even moral superiority. These days he was talking to the president of Acoa, of the council association, and he was telling me that the relationship we had with Itelazpi was a skewed relationship. Itelazpi's relationship with the General Councils of Álava? Well, one more time of none. Once again of "as I am a company belonging to the Basque Government, where I am going to explain it is in the Basque Government", even in the Basque Parliament. Indeed, but that is a total disrespect, because here the Administration, it is Administration. A council is very small, indeed, it is voluntary, and the Basque Government is very large, yes, but we are still small, medium and large administrations. So the lack of respect has been truly shameful on the part of Itelazpi. And it's also that he hasn't even fulfilled the mandates. It is not only that none, but that you do not fulfill the mandates, and in this case the answer you gave in February this year to the General Councils of Álava, the last day of the legislature in Álava, was simple. He said: "Therefore, both the Basque Government and Itelazpi will only be subject to parliamentary control over them by the Basque Parliament, so this party understands that it is not appropriate to respond to what is requested in the motion." So, ladies and gentlemen, we're wasting time in Álava and in the councils, here as well, not so much. So today we want to understand, it's more, I think it's also being like this, that Itelazpi is already doing everything in his hands. He hasn't done it until now, and he also recognized us aloud yesterday, but now he's doing little by little what's in his hands. And we are not just going to trust your good intention, your proactive attitude, because I believe that no one in this House, not even Itelazpi, wants to go back to previous scenarios. I believe that no one would want to return to June 22, 2017, which was when we approved the motion in which we finally forced Itelazpi to take action. It is very ugly for a public enterprise to act with private vision and to take advantage of the communals, but much more ugly is that it does not respect the administrations however small they are, even if it is legal. That sounds really ugly to me. He said that two years ago, López de Ocariz also said, a motion was approved here. It wasn't easy, but it went ahead and the points were very simple. It was approved that the Basque Government was urged to reach an agreement between Itelazpi, the Diputación and the councils to regularize the use and establish a canon, something so simple. Itelazpi, under the principles of transparency and publicity, had to inform the owners. It was urged to avoid judicializing the process, I believe, for the benefit of all parties, and it was also urged to comply with the counter-performance retroactively. Well, it's been two years, in some councils they're doing it, but in about 20 councils it's not happening what we would have liked. So this morning we heard here that the government is doing things. It sounds a little like a ghost movie to me, because Itelazpi does things, yes, but he does things because he has no choice. He does things, but not enough, not at the speed we wanted, not even by his own will. But he does things, well, okay, so we're glad. In February of this year, at the General Councils of Álava, seeing that things are not going as fast as they should, another motion that has not been taken very seriously and, of course, has not been implemented is again approved. So two years after inaction, both by Itelazpi, and by the Álava Foral Diputation, I have to recognize it, we are here today, the day of the marmot can be called, because once again we speak of Itelazpi. Euskal Herria Bildu doesn't want to go back, he doesn't want to go back even to June 22nd two years ago. We understand that the proactive attitude that we are going to ask Itelazpi for also we have groups, and in that we are, and I think we have demonstrated it, and, well, we were surprised yesterday by something from the vice president of Itelazpi because he said that on April 5 he had already passed all the information about Itelazpi to the Foral Chamber of Álava; then, well, we believe that the Chamber has to move file and, of course, we will not miss the opportunity to chase and to watch him, go. So, I am going to end, we have to guarantee the principles of cooperation and cooperation from all sides that have competence in this matter, but the attitude of prepotence, I repeat, and none and contempt on the part of Itelazpi, has to end yes or yes, because if we do not return here to discuss more of the same thing. Beyond fulfilling their obligations as a company, beyond regularizing situations, beyond all that, we call for institutional loyalty I would ask us to leave behind institutional pride, to assume what was raised in 2017 and what is going to come out again today. I will take this opportunity to thank Mrs López de Ocariz, because I think she has done a job of trying to negotiate and I think it has gone well. And because, in addition, the People's Party and Euskal Herria Bildu, both here and at the General Councils of Álava, we once again demonstrate that we are very concerned about the councils as an important and necessary part of the territory. I'm going to finish, of course Itelazpi's goal is to guarantee those services, we understand it and, moreover, we believe it is also ours, but not at any price, nor in any way, that we will not allow. To conclude, EH Collect has signed the medium, because our purpose has always been to defend and to secure his jurisdictions. We'll continue to do that, and we'll work with the same purpose as in the Fordun Forbaba Aldudian, or we'll still work on it. Hori, Partido Popularrari eskerrak ematen dizkiogu, and, well, we signed the transaction with the idea of never again discussing Itelazpi and each other's competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u131	Thank you, Miss Lopez de Lariyabe. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u132	President, ladies and gentlemen. I have some doubt as to whether at the time of this matter, we had to deal with it here, but since we are dealing with it here, well, if we can help anything, we help. Because I believe that the problem was in 2017 and before, but in 2017 this House unanimously decided that a dialogue had to be opened between the public enterprise Italazpi and the councils, that it had to have an economic relationship with the councils, that there were counter-performances, that there was a canon for the councils on those public utility piles that are under their jurisdiction to have a contribution and be able to meet the competences of those councils. Here in 2017 we proposed that the chapter on judicialization should be closed and that procedures should be put in place to start paying those benefits and that canon to the councils, and this was put into effect. Once this House took this decision, little by little it was launched. What is the current moment? Because it seems that this comes here as a rebound from a debate of the General Councils of Álava. And how much better the General Councils of Álava would have done by urging his Government to resolve it. Because the procedural moment of this matter is that there are already councils that are receiving those benefits, that are charging those fees, and there are others that are not yet doing so. But why aren't they doing it? Don't they charge because Itelazpi doesn't want to pay? Don't they charge because there is no established procedure to resolve it? Or don't they charge because of the twenty-one outlaw orders that the Álava Provincial Council has to approve, to settle and start paying, most of them aren't made? This is the story. So another kind of element that has been poured out here, in relation to what are the institutional relations that Itelazpi has or its behavior with the General Boards, are another kind of considerations, which I do not see at this time too much interest. Now, it is not this Parliament that is going to resolve, it is going to execute, it is going to formalise the foreign orders. Either they are made by the Foral de Álava, or the benefits and the canon to be given to the councils will remain unsolved. That's why I was saying that I don't know if we have to deal with this here today. But as it is above the table, we obviously treat it. Well, I think that in yesterday's appearance it became clear to everyone what Itelazpi's will was, it became clear that the procedure was already done, I think it became clear even that Itelazpi had requested or requested the Foral Chamber of Álava's own speed, because they were willing to face the agreement emanating from this Parliament, and that it was the one that produced the possibility of resolving this conflict. Man, I don't want to defend Itelazpi, because I think his behavior in previous years, well, he says what he says, and that they defend themselves that for that they have spokesmen, they already did it yesterday at the General Councils. But at the moment the problem is not there, but it is in the Foral Diputation of Álava. Well, if this Parliament is going to work, then it's great. All right, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u133	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief Department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all the afternoons. Today we look at another proposal like the Basque Potula team about the telecommunication centers of the Itelbe mountains on public use. We again discussed a matter that we discussed almost two years ago, on 22 June 2017, in which we reached an agreement unanimously thanks to the efforts of all parties, in which there were many divestitures, and, above all, the common goal was to get out of that jam. The aim of today's initiative is the same, the regularization of the telecommunications centres that are in the mountains of public utility of Álava, but the current situation is by no means, in any case, the situation two years ago. We have managed to get out of that grip or maze, we are moving forward, and, above all, we are moving out of the courts. Progress is being made in a satisfactory way. We understand that not with the speed that none of the parties would have liked, either Itelazpi, the Foral Diputación de Álava, or some local entities, administrative boards and councils, because it is true that some local entities seem to prefer to stay as they are. In any case, the speed or deadlines are due to the need to process administrative procedures that have their times, and the material and personal means are also those that they are. I thought that today, with an agreement, we were going to look more into the future, and I cannot share at all the vision that is continually being brought back on Itelazpi. It is true that it has been a complex matter in which there were opposing positions, a matter in which there were many institutional levels of Euskadi affected, since the General Administration of Euskadi, with its public society, the Foral Diputation of Álava and smaller local entities, with different areas of competition, but in no case has there been any superiority, neither legal nor attitude. There have been, above all, up to June 2017, opposing positions, but in no case has there been a superiority or a prepotence that has been wanted here today, and also before. In addition, it has always been treated with loyalty and institutional respect and cooperation and mutual cooperation, which is what it should be like, which happens that at a time when one wanted to make particular interests prevail to a general interest, to an interest of territorial cohesion, which must be maintained by the Basque Government, because it is also manager of public resources, but well, that phase, those gaps, have been overcome, and now we are at another time. Thus, that agreement of June 2017 was a turning point at which we all committed ourselves to moving forward. Today we have again reached an agreement with the proposing group, to which EH Bildu has subsequently joined, and I don't know what Elkarrekin will do We can, which probably will support it. I also understand that this non-legislative proposal was not necessary today in Parliament, because in what has come mainly from the General Councils of Álava, and I understand that it was a matter that could be resolved there, but here we have it and we have reached an agreement, making an effort and with flexibility again on all sides. In the agreement we ask Itelazpi to promote the procedures of regularization. This is already done, it is already doing Itelazpi. Yesterday we had the opportunity to hear from the vice president of Itelazpi and it became clear that his attitude is that Itelazpi's work is proactive and that they act with transparency. As has been said, they are at the full disposal of the Arab Foreign Ministry, which is responsible for processing the files. They have submitted all the necessary documentation so that these fees can be paid as soon as the procedures are resolved, Itelazpi is paying as soon as those procedures are resolved, no out-of-court orders are being applied, and even the fees are paid and some have already been updated with the annual CPI. Therefore, what corresponds to Itelazpi is complete. And, on the other hand, the other two points concern the Arab Foreign Ministry, which acquires commitments, commitments with demanding but adequate deadlines: on the one hand, it is required to inform and advise local authorities; and, on the other, to resolve the procedures. Well, these two things he's already doing. He has already sent letters to all the local entities concerned and, in addition, he has held meetings with the local entities that showed interest, because, as I said, the situation of the local entities, councils and administrative boards is very different and some have also not wanted to move from the situation in which they were for various reasons. And as far as the files are concerned, there's a lot going on. Some have already been solved. Txibiarte-Lezama is already resolved, and some of the others are in process, with the capacity and programming with which the Arab Foreign Ministry has understood that it had capacity. Nor can I share that there is talk of illegality or that the installations, the antennas of Itelazpi are seen to be illegal. These towers exist, they have been in the territory since the 1960s, it is true that they have had modifications, but these towers exist before Itelazpi itself existed, on most occasions I understand that the councils or the territory accepted it. In 85 it was transferred, by the transfer decrees it was transferred from the deputies to the Basque Government, and I do not believe that the outlaws and, in this case, the Arab Foral Diputation could transfer something illegal to the Basque Government. Another thing is that at this time it is considered appropriate to regularize, to regularize in the sense of ordering and updating what exists. I would also like to highlight the public service and the social work that Itelazpi carries out: it has the necessary functions such as emergencies, security, civil protection, meteorology and other functions that it provides to citizens free of charge, such as television or the Internet, and it brings these services to all households, to the most isolated, thus promoting cohesion, famous social cohesion and territorial balance. If such a society did not provide such services, there would be households that would not have such services. So, there's no business here. There is clear social work. And, on the other hand, it is said that these facilities house private operators. Of course, they house private operators. It has never been hidden, on the one hand, because it is a legal obligation, derived from article 9.4 of the General Telecommunications Act, and, on the other hand, also because of an environmental issue, so that towers do not proliferate and existing installations are optimized. As for income, it is obvious that these facilities have income. They have public and private revenues, which, by the way, are published and have also been given to some parliamentary group in this House, Itelazpi has facilitated them to some parliamentary group in this House. But income So, well, I want to highlight this public work, with the wish that they can complete this dossier, because all the parties are interested and so are we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. A group that hasn't committed any correction together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u136	Good afternoon, everyone. Last week we had here in this House an interesting debate on the depopulation of the rural world, in which, more or less, all groups reached a certain agreement, a certain consensus on the importance of the rural world, the importance of the councils, the administrative boards, the local entities in the provision of a series of services that are services for the whole of society, whether it is the maintenance of roads, whether it is the good conservation of the forest masses, or the making available to the other administrations of a land, in this case of a mountain soil, in order to place in it a number of infrastructures. In that debate last week, as I say, we had a certain consensus that the provision of services was of value. But one thing is to preach and another to give wheat. And, of course, when we encounter a specific problem, with a concrete example, then the transition from theoretical reflection to practice is more complex, possibly, for some groups. The debate that Mrs López de Ocáriz has brought with her, and I thank her, I do not think it is because of the question of authorization, because there is a foral rule of mountains which makes it clear that these installations, these repeaters, must have authorization, because this cannot be the subject of the debate. The subject of the debate I believe is also not about the economic compensation that Itelazpi has to provide for, here in Álava, its 33 facilities and its 66 facilities throughout the Basque Country. That does not have to be the debate, because that amount will be based on technical conditions which, logically, are the responsibility of the competent administrations and technicians. What brings, from our point of view, from Elkarrekin Podemos, this debate here is really Itelazpi's attitude, the attitude that I described in yesterday's appearance as institutional pride, derived from the response he gives to the General Councils, saying, in some way, that the General Councils are not who to evaluate their work and that the only entity that can assess their work, that can monitor their work, is Parliament. And, obviously, that's what makes us talking about this this afternoon. Because I can agree with Mr Prieto and also with Mrs Larrauri that the administrative question, purely administrative, the administrative bottleneck, is no longer in Itelazpi right now, is in the Foral Chamber of Álava and in the processing that it has to make of the different foreign orders. But, as I say, what we have to evaluate is the attitude. We can assess the present attitude, because yesterday we were told that, in a boast of generosity, Itelazpi was not resorting to outside orders. And that already gives a good measure of what a change of attitude you've had. Nor are we going to prejudge what the future attitude will be, and I would like this non-law proposal or the compromise result, which our group is going to support, to serve, once and for all, to align Itelazpi with the rest of the country's institutions, to give an administrative service, let us say, honest and in line with what the rest of the institutions give. But it is important to highlight, to show why we have come this far. Because Mrs Larrauri says that Itelazpi has a good attitude, and we have to remember that Itelazpi kept a legal pulse until the end, claiming, first, that authorization was not necessary, because it was a public service, which is not since 2003; secondly, that it was not necessary because there was no economic benefit, which is also true, because Itelazpi collects more than 12 million euros a year for the provision of services, and the canon, the canon that it has to pay to the councils, to the administrative boards, barely exceeds 100,000 euros, with which we are talking about 1%. The point is that Itelazpi never wanted to pay at any time. Such has been their proactive attitude, which, for the simple access of the experts of the University of the Basque Country to the repeaters of Zaldiaran in order to be able to assess whether, in fact, there was an economic benefit, an economic utility or not, took two years, seven months and 13 days to allow them access. And this has been the talent that Itelazpi has had so far. And that does not prejudge what the future will be and, in that sense, we are not going to speak, but, of course, that is what this debate brings here. I'd like to end with Itelazpi's code of ethics. On its website, in the code of good governance and ethical code, it says: "Itelazpi will pursue the economic, social and cultural development of Basque society". He does not say whether about rural society or urban society, but he talks about Basque society. And he says that "it is an efficient company, a reference company and that it brings value to society". If it brings value to society, if what it seeks is the development of our society, of our rural communities, no more talk: pay and get ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u137	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. At the turn of the answers, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u138	Yes, briefly. Firstly, Mr Becerra, to thank you for your support for this compromise amendment. And only to clarify some terms. If this initiative comes to this House it is because there is a point of the agreement of 22 June 2017 that has not been fulfilled. That point is taken up by the Juntas initiative in January, they approve it, they tell Itelazpi to exercise what the point says, and he says no to the Juntas, who only comes to this House. And that is why we simply bring the initiative to this House, so that it effectively explains it and we can have that relationship with Itelazpi as a Basque public enterprise. I don't think we can be more humble, simple and constructive. We can't be anymore. I do not think we have raised the floor at any time, nor have we used derogatory terms. We are trying to resolve an issue that has been raised and that seems to be that this is the House where Itelazpi... I would also like to say that if here all these procedures had had the transparency that each one required, if in the question to the deputy of Álava in Juntas, in February, he counted the programming he was having with Itelazpi and how he would be responsible for communicating and informing the Juntas, that point would probably not have been approved. Probably not, because a mechanism is already in place, but it is not counted. So, neither did Itelazpi yesterday. We're learning a few things from interventions. Then, if they exercised transparency at every moment, probably many things would be clarified at the time. But this is a consequence of a failure to comply with the agreement of 22 June 2017, which is again agreed at the General Councils of Álava, which is not attended by Itelazpi and which we bring here, because Itelazpi says that it only attends to what is approved here. I think it is meridianly clear and transparent why we bring the initiative here, which is not our will. And if everything had been done as agreed, we wouldn't be here. Sure, that's why we are. Thank you all very much. And that the agreed will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u139	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. EH Collect must not speak. Basque Socialist doesn't have to speak. The eubertarians, out of which the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u140	Yes, ma'am, Mr. Chairman, from the seat with your permission. Soon. I would like to thank the tone, although we do not share the fact that this initiative has had to come here. I appreciate the tone of Mrs López de Ocariz, and I want to tell Mr Becerra that I understand that he did not participate in the debate of 22 June 2017, and, well, he has had to make a retrospective with some data, but anyway the truths or the story must be told in full. And, for example, in the visit of the UPV experts to which he refers, well, it would be necessary to tell to whom this delay is attributable, because it is not actually attributable in its entirety to Itelazpi. And, on the other hand, there is a lot of effort on the issue of income and possible benefits, which there are not always, but, of course, if we are trying to relate it to what has to be paid to the administrative boards, it is that the fees are not calculated on the basis of income, they are calculated according to the judgments, to the judgments of July 2017; the fees are not calculated on the basis of income, but on the basis of other objective parameters, mainly related to occupation. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Mr. Becerra? Together, Podemos, Mr. Becerra must not speak. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque populars, the Basque Socialists, the EH and the Eubertarians, the media corrections signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 70; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-06-06.u142	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Next, I'll read an institutional statement. Institutional expression on the Ambatonia conflict: "The Urdus of Human Rights, and the savage and indiscreet violence against the Anglo-glophone population, suffer from the October of 2016 state attack. The majority of this population inhabits the southwest of the country, especially when it has been published by the English democracy. "The final crisis has been hardened from October 2017, the popular demonstration called by the institutions of civil society, and the consensus of the resistance of a prolonged conflict, which the President of the government of Paul Biya has subjected with violence against the revolt of the country which suffers by violence. This conflict has faced the government and the Anglo-Saxon region. "The Yaoundé executive government, in its objective of subjugating the protests of the English-speaking population, has activated its security and defence forces to act barbarically against the civilian population, in a burning land policy that has caused numerous innocent victims. "On the other hand, violent groups in that region, relying on protests, have caused serious crimes with hundreds of victims of the population and officials and police. "In this line, the prestigious non-governmental organization Centre for Human Rights and Democracy in Africa has counted, until March 2019, 176 burned and calcined villages, causing hundreds of deaths and thousands of displaced people to the forests of the region, as well as escaped and refugee populations in Nigeria, in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. "In the face of this grave situation of indiscriminate violation of human rights, the Basque Parliament: "One: It denounces and reproves this constant violation of the most fundamental rights through the exercise of cruel and disproportionate violence against the defenceless civilian population that has caused a serious humanitarian crisis, but also the abduction of students and teachers or the murder of officials and police. "Two: Expresses its gratitude, solidarity and support to the victims of these massacres and their relatives, in order to alleviate the terrible suffering they suffer as a result of this humanitarian tragedy. "Three: The Parliament calls it necessary to begin the dialogue and negotiation between parties, protected by international protection, to obtain a just and lasting peace, which will agree with justice and international principles, as to respect human rights. "Four: To begin this conversation he begs the armed groups of the Ambatonia and the government of the Cameroon Government, and immediately let them fight. "Five: The lord government, and the last voluntary expressions made by some of the leaders of the opposition, animates both sides to follow this path. "And six: The Basque institutions, the Spanish, the European, the African Union, and the Union of the United Nations, are called to the United Nations' organizations organization in order that they may take possession of these waters of human rights, so that they may boldly resist the effects of human crisis, and become involved in the negotiation of a solution which will prevent the bloodshed which this region is suffering. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and forty-three.
