ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, as to the importance of the budget taken from Eurogarchy of Michael's Preservations in the year 2020. " Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, lords and ladies of the department, Mr. President, good morning. Under the roof, sir, these fechas are special days, not just because Christmas is coming, but most public institutions are presenting budgets and negotiated. It's the beginning of his career. Three weeks ago, you explained the budgets on the committee. After that, he's making a negotiation. It seems as if together the most important negotiations with Podemos, the EH Collectors, and Popular Party, have been shown in the first place without great integrity. Our party, of course, protects the budget from 10 to 8 social policies, which lead to the equality of 10% men and women of the budget, and to 5% defenses of the environment. Generally, it's a good start for a successful negotiation, and the next year we look at some budgets. In general, in order to make a little reflection, I dare say that society has a certain uneasiness because things change quickly, and sometimes because it has no time to adjust. And we believe that institutions and politicians, even this legislature, ought to give society a grip, a chain of certainty. And we must do all that is in our power, even in this legislature, to give that power to the more subject. So if we look at the next batch, we'd ask these members of the legislature to offer that handle, and, in the talks of budgets, we'd really like to make an agreement with that. So, once I say this, I'm going to send you the question as it's registered: Could you explain to us, Mr. Chief, how important it is to have a few budgets from Euskaca to 2020 in order to face future shootings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u2	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u3	President of the legislature, Mr. President, President, members of the legislature, Mr. Abrahams, good morning to all of you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u5	As you know, an approved budget allows an institution to develop in an agile and adequate manner the policies it contemplates in its government program. It enables us to fulfil our commitments to citizenship, ensure well-being, enhance economic development and employment. An approved budget allows us to work on the present with a view to the future. It allows us to maintain and improve our level of investment in health, education, tourism, culture, social services, justice and housing; ultimately, it allows us to invest in Euskadi. An approved budget gives us the opportunity to remain at the forefront of the European Union-15 on an equal footing, in welfare indices and in innovation. It is true that the design of the budget requires intensive work to analyse the needs of quantification, and that we are therefore obliged to prioritize the commitments we have made. For everyone and everyone it's very difficult to say no no Developing a budget requires adapting to regulations that limit, to a certain extent, our capacity for action, but with which we must live together in order to respect the legal and competitive framework. Therefore, shaping a budget proposal requires large doses of realism and pragmatism, knowing how to face the challenges ahead and making good budget planning to address them. If I may have the metaphor, I dare say that designing a budget must be done with the long lights on, those that allow us to see beyond what we have right in front of us. Given our position as a parliamentary minority, we need the support of an opposition group in order to be able to approve it. People who know how to understand the challenges of this country and, even if they do not share the global approach, want to bet on the future. I personally undertake to make an effort to take steps to reach an agreement. We're gonna work it out. We have to fulfill our commitments to the community. We have to guarantee our welfare. We need to strengthen economic development and work. We have to work on the present, looking forward to the future, we have to invest in Euscadin. It must be in the advance of the 15th of Europe, in respect of equality, of well-being, and of innovation. As a government, we are responsible for the proper and strict management of public business. Our budget has to respect the financial budget and the scope of our jurisdictions. When we form a former project, it is essential that realism and pragmatism should be based on it. This government, as I told you, works the present and bets on the future, because what we are able to build today will be our inheritance for the people behind it. I personally, and since I cannot be otherwise a tax and economic adviser, believe that having this approved budget is vital for the future of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u6	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, as Jason Aguirre Garitagondia EH Collectors to the President, the company of the Spanish football elects on the part of St. Mames Bar." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u7	Gracias, señora presidenta. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Urkullu. June 2020, Bilbo, St. Mames Baria full to the top. Thousands of football fans up there and millions of viewers from all over the world staring intently at television. The Spanish selectration in the field, la Roja, has begun to play his himino music, and you are sitting among the rulers of the shovels. They'll put on a chicken peel, and it's respectable, and it's some people who might mix their stomachs, and that's respectable too. I don't know what you're gonna feel, but whatever it is, and that's respectable. The fans may start whistling, too, it's classical, whistling so that they can cover the hypono music. But there are other options. Don't you think we should take advantage of that moment to tell the world there's a country here called Euskal People and a man who wants to be master of himself? Shall we not use this opportunity to express ourselves to the world that we too would encourage our election, and that we have a right to determine it? What does Basque Country Strategy say about it? Don't you mention that this is a good opport to show the world that we are in a country, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u9	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mrs. Aguirre, Miss Aguirre: Yes, I mean it. Yes. Look, Mrs. Aguirre, when we all agree that one of our main challenges is to be introduced into the Basque nations. In the Euskadi-Basque Country Strategy, we continue to continue a series of jobs to continue the international progress of our people. The games which are to play in Europe and in Bilbon will not only be recorded in Europe but in the open world, and will be established in the Euskade. We know that this kind of sporting champions excite or excite multiple feelings. 'Esunk' will defend their respect, their freedom, and their partnership in the expression of these personal experiences and feelings.' And with that, our commitment, our commitment, our commitment to fun, and it's one of the commitments and the commitments of the Cultural and the Language Department, and one of the means of making up an international confession to the sports department. Even in football and other sports. We're working on it, and it's a daily job. The changes are necessary, and I make a proclamation too, Mrs. Aguirre. But the society of euscal demands more than a proclamation: every day's work, it's asking us to step forward for years. And we'll go on with it. That, too, Mrs. Aguirre, is doubtless the place in the world as a people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u11	Think you for being so clear, mister, president. A football game is not just a sports show. And we all know that. If it were only a show, there would be no problem for us to have our official selection. But Spain doesn't want it. They don't want it. Otherwise, it would be recorded in the agreement you made with PSE and Podemos for the new state, wouldn't it? And you had to take that off too, didn't you? "Euskadi es lo más peerscido a un stado ser un tudo," you say over and over again. And we don't even have the right to have our official selection. Wales is not a state, and will play Eurocopa with his official election. That's normal. Ours, Mr. Urkullu, is a democratic anormalide. You said five years ago that the Esscal Scythians would play at Euroco. And you didn't get it, did you? What if they don't even allow us to be an official election, how can they allow us to decide? Esto me hace recordar un chiste un bastaste malo, uno que dæ: "Hang her?" he asked. No. hujaes, entonces, de sexo me hablamos, eh? "I don't know. Selección oficial? No. Entonces, de deroch a decidir me hablamos, eh? Gure selekzio officiala iziko eskubiderik ez badugu, gure etorkizuna erabakitzeko eskubiderik ére ez, ezta, Urkullu jauna? Eurokoparen eskaparate handi hori approetxatuta, zuk zeuk, urrats bat emanate gero, erabaki nahi duen herri honen alde, ez duzu uste herritarren gehiengo batek jarraituk disula? Erabaki beat beharrean hartu zaude, Urkullu jauna. You are faced with a dilemma: you have to decide who you want to be with, Mr Urkullu. It's not that he has a right, it's that he has a duty to decide. This time he won't be worth saying he prefers Russia to win. Erabaki behar duzu zer gurago duzun: Euskaldunon aukera bakarra la Roja txalotzea located at the selekzioaren village of Egypt. You decide where you want to be, Mr. Urkullu. You have to decide whether you want to be with most of the people in this country or sit on the stage of authorities, behind Manolo the one with the drum. Although, with the agreement you've reached with the Socialist Party and Podemos, I think...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Miss Aguirre or Mrs. Aguirre? Ma'am. No, Misses. Well, we're in the mood. Let's go to the next seriousness, Mrs. Aguirre. It's not just football vision. This was the occasion of 2014, because we're keeping terms and guarantees from St. Mames Barrea, Bilbo and Euskak. In fact, we are showing ourselves to be a people of the world's great events and all its guarantees. We have to place the echoes of Eurocopan and of it in that context, the Europa World Games of 2016, for instance, 2,000 million visuals, one after another, the spectacle of 111 million in the game. On the other hand, the economic influence of such events in our cities is to be considered. These journals leave wealth in our trade, hosting, hotels, and other sectors. It's not just a football show, as you say, Mrs. Aguirre. We're face to face with a worldwide and echoing sporting event. Thousands of people will visit Basque and walk our streets. I hope they'll take advantage of our culture, museums, and gastronomy. Señora Aguirre, este effecto se consigivio con el Mundial de Básquet, la Final Europea de Rugby, la Final Fur. All over the world, millions of people will stare at the Basques, and we will be placed on the map of the world. Let us therefore give the measure and nature of this act. Let's give it a chance, Mrs. Aguirre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask your question, Jule Bollain Ubieta together made by the members of the Podemos to the president about language politics." Mr. Bollain, your word is yours. Bollain Urvieta We now know that there are many people who cannot learn eus for different reasons. Many of these reasons are connected with economic and social differences. So, how's it going to go before him, so he can beat the odds to make an appeal? Thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mr. Bollain. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bollain, your question is that the current language isn't very attentive to people who don't have a chance to learn for financial and social reasons. That's not true, Mr. Bollain. People who are in a difficult economic or social situation have opportunities and opportunities to learn to resist. On the one hand, people who are unemployed have a chance to learn if they're going to the eucalyptus. The cost of these students is HABEs and Professions, and there are 400 students of that profile in this year's business. Second, like immigrants. The immigrants are free to study the eucalyptics. We've got 380 students on that program, and they'll get more plates across the school. The Cost, in this case, HABE and the council fund it. Thirdly, Mr. Bollain, the persons who hire the revenues to support the revenues, have a right to study the eucalyptus by the scholarships or rates established by a multitude of municipalities. Fourthly, we offer attention and special assistance to the inexperienced, to the strangers, or to the hire of money, Mr. Bollain. This is the model we have to answer to the wants of people who may be in a difficult situation at present, and our public assistance. There's always something to be better, no doubt, Mr. Bollain, but there's help and there's no doubt they'll be in the future. Thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u16	Yeah. Thank you for the answer, Mr. President. We assume that the policies and measurements you spoke of are not enough. Of course they are necessary, but they're not enough to promote the language of the Basque M.M. incestuous and sensitive language with a collective difficulty most objective to learn, that is, to ensure the equality of all the citizens and to promote it in an active manner. It's true that in the Euskadin there are many people trying to study eus, but they can't. They can't take economic reasons, for social reasons, for adaptation, or for other reasons that make the process of normalization in our language difficult. And at the same time there is a socillistic interruption, which has important consequences on the way to employment, education, culture, or administration. And you talked about people in the profession. It is a striking example, according to the socilinistic polla, and according to the data of the profession, almost to the people who are in charge of the profession. 90% does not control the eucalyptus. It's obvious that these data is indicated to us that we are in front of a large social area which requires an update of the orientation of language policy. And it is true that the profession offers eucalypics, but, seeing these facts, it may be possible that the reorganization of the process of euphoration may be required. Another collective, in a state of difference, which you mention, is the emigrations of the chimigrant. There are many of them, young men outside the euscal educational system, or pre-elected women working in the custody sector. And, after all, from the hours of preparation and labour, it is impossible for them to adapt themselves to the hours which the Basques and the professors of language offer. But if that were small, they also have an enormous economic obstacle: 'That's right,' said Švejk. What if she's a woman? We know that the conditioned ones are even bigger. And what we have said here is only a few of the collective ones we want to pay attention to, but we can remark a number of other collective ones, who refuse every year to study eucalyptics, and who require special attention from the Euscatin. And this attention must be directed by public policy, by a policy of language, which has a democratic vocation and an inclulericity established by the knowledge of the reality and conditions of all these collective communities. Besides, we believe that together in Podemos there is enough resources for these people to learn to the eucalyco, to ensure and give them some conveniences, because, after all, we can't forget that it is also to fight a society and a country race which is opening up in our society. And it's urgent to face this before certain situations are chromatic. Thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Mr. President, your word is yours. Presidents of the lordships. Urkullu Renteria ) : : : : : : : Mr. Bollain, in the previous answer, I have mentioned the people who are unemployed, the immigrants, who have received an income to ensure their income, and are now developing it with four groups or four sets of people. You admit that these measures are necessary, but they are not sufficient. We're developing improvements and benefits and we're ready to develop. If you have any new proposals, we can study them. I'll tell you about the projects we've got right now. On the one hand, they're working on HABE and Profession by studying how to insert help in the eucalyptic training itself. On the other hand, next year, B2 will be guaranteed for those who check the level. And that, Mr. Bollain, will be a strong impulse and incentive to any of the people, to any of the people. We shall propose new measures to increase use in the area of the eucalyptic eucaïcs and the young. We have to show our efforts to the Basque State University, 52% of the new plates we've got this year, at least he's taken some lessons in eucalyptus. We must continue to pay attention to the adults by HABE, and to all those persons who are the source of this question. HABE grants, Lanbide grants in the world of work, gratuitousness at level B2, support for knowledge and use of euskera among young people, help for learning among adults with the most need: these are new proposals that we will develop. We show, in any case, our willingness to add new measures to support the learning of the Basque language, especially among those most in need of such support for economic or social reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera, members of the Basque Socialists, made to the chief staff of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamorem, about the activities which are intended to promote the competition of the Euscataisms. " Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u18	Egun on denoi, counselor, I am convinced that you and I share the view that tourism has long since ceased to be a smaller industry. Today Basque tourism is contributing more than 100,000 social security affiliations and accounts for 10% of the Basque economy's gross domestic product. And it is also true that tourism is growing progressively; that growth is being constant and also sustained over time. And the Basque industry is important in terms of tourism, not only because of its weight in the Basque economy, but also because it is our presentation card, Euskadi's presentation card outside the territory. With regard to the lines of work in which you are supporting your policies from the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, in the professional field of tourism you are essentially seeking to create quality jobs, you are seeking to promote entrepreneurship and also the adaptation of the professional sector to the new technological challenges. But these lines of action are also being managed through a vision in the field of sustainability in its three, let's say, main lines. You are managing programmes with environmental sustainability criteria, economic sustainability criteria and social sustainability criteria. We understand that the objective you are seeking is, fundamentally, that our tourism companies, Basque tourism companies, take muscle and, moreover, that they are able to face the challenges of the future. That is why the Basque Socialists wanted to know what their balance sheet is of the measures that are being implemented from the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption that you lead to improve the competitiveness of Basque tourism companies by supporting technological innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. In reply, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u20	Gracias, president. Good morning, everyone. Indeed, we believe that the Basque tourism sector must have access to tools to boost its competitiveness and access to new technologies. To this end, the EMET programme is being specifically designed. It is a line whose goal is to provide our companies with technological solutions to improve, as I said, the competitiveness of their businesses. This program enables solutions such as cloud storage, comprehensive business management, advanced solutions based on big data processes In one of my parliamentary appearances I stated that to improve governance we were conducting independent evaluations of our departmental programmes. EMET has precisely been one of them and has already been evaluated, so I would like to share here some of the conclusions. The programme has achieved a significant increase in the number of tourism companies in Euskadi using tics and other technological solutions that improve interaction with their customers and the efficiency of tourism businesses. It also increases the number of companies that improve the quality of the services they offer with an environmental sustainability perspective. But our commitment to improving competitiveness and technological innovation in the Basque tourism sector is not limited only to programmes such as EMET. From Basquetour there are also actions such as those I detail. This year, in addition to SICTED management improvement programs, digitisation improvement, smart business In any case, I conclude by highlighting the preparation of the sector, it is not only a perception, it is a reality, and also recognized by the Monitur report, which points to us as the most competitive community. But, precisely, we will continue to work from the department to maintain this competitiveness, not only in promotion, but also in management and governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Alfonso Alonso Arnegui Rausea, a member of the Popula team for the president, about the new state." Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, very good morning. I ask you today about the work for your new political status, which seems to be coming to an end, in your expert phase, and I am very interested in knowing what your assessment is and also if you anticipate something we can expect in the future. I'll give you some general consideration before you have the kindness to answer me. Yesterday, you had and took advantage of the opportunity offered by the Socialist Party – which will succeed the Socialist Party – to send a message to Pedro Sánchez, just astound the pacite, and also to renew your convictions with your vote, convictions in sovereignism, Basque autarchy, self-determination, in the rapprochement of prisoners, in the liquidation of labor reform. Anyway, that's what we lived here yesterday, too. And in addition, you committed yourselves to defending democracy with the people of Bildu. Therefore, I, your ability to twist the concepts has no limit, and we are seeing it in Spain. It turns out that, now, democracy incarnates Bildu, progress incarnates Podemos; although where its prescriptions apply, it does not seem that anyone progresses too much. And yesterday we discovered – and this is new – that moderation embodies it by Mr Egibar. Today he came in with a leather hunter so they wouldn't have him loose, but yesterday he was the face of moderate nationalism. And I also ask you, if democracy is Bildu and progress is Podemos, can you explain to me, Mr Lehendakari, what is moderation?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u23	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, you have a virtue: you usually start well, in an interesting way, the speeches; then the truffles with a few push-buttons, and you waste the rigour of the debate that we could have. You ask me about the work of the Committee of Experts on the articulated text of the new status, not otherwise, Mr Alonso. And, although you have done an advance exercise, I answer that until Monday I do not know what the committee of experts will present. Or do you know him, Mr. Alonso? And, in any case, as I said in the general policy debate, I express my appreciation and appreciation to the people who have worked or are still working on the expert committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u26	Mr Urkullu, the last thing I would want is to bore you, I make efforts to make sure you don't get bored when I ask you. But it has left me very worried: that is, you don't know him. Hey, I know him on his finger, everything, to the last line. Of course I know him. Besides, I think it's part of my obligations to know him. It's just that I'm very restless, you know everybody in the House, except you. It's published in the media, we read it in the newspapers, we talk about it. Everyone talks about it and the only one who doesn't know it is you. I don't know, I'm worried. I hope this doesn't happen with the rest of the policies that are your responsibility, I want to think it doesn't. Look, I'm gonna explain to you what happened there and what came out of there, and what came out of there on Monday. I know you don't like chascarillos, but it's very graphic. There's one thing that walks like a duck, flies like a duck, nothing like a duck, and it goes like that, like that. Come on, it's come out to you, not you, to the experts or to your party partner who's as an appointed expert there, what came out there is the Ibarretxe Plan. Just like Plan Ibarretxe. Same result. What happens is that it's now called a political concert and before that I don't know if it was an associate state or what you guys called it; but the exact same thing has come out. Any possibility of competition from Spain in the Basque Country, there are Basque nationals. Even in the support, in the rapprochement with the United Nations We can, for here also Mr Madrazo supported him, if you remember. And it leads to the same dead end that the Ibarretxe Plan was carrying and it can provoke the same social division that we are seeing in Catalonia; but it leads to a dead end, it does not widen any agreement, Mr Urkullu. And I'm deeply concerned. Because that's what's come out of you, the same thing we've been through in the past. I assure you that we will exercise our ability where we can exercise it so that it does not go anywhere, you have the absolute certainty that we will do it in a very moderate way. But I'm worried about the drift you're having. And I'm going to tell you one thing with all due respect and no offense: we're starting to miss Mr. Ibarretxe, because Mr. Ibarretxe at least wasn't cheating on us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u27	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Alonso, you are unfortunately still frivolous. Look, the last warning you've made has already made Vox. Between the original and the copy, I don't know where you'll be, Mr. Alonso, at the end. In any case, I would like to say that the committee of experts has been appointed by this Parliament, also by its group, and responds to a broader institutional process, and has not been appointed by the lehendakari. The aim of the presentation, Mr Alonso, is to arrive at an update and deepening of the Basque self-government with the maximum possible consensus, expressed so repeatedly, also yesterday afternoon. And this process does not begin or end with this committee, Mr Alonso. And it's self-government, it's not the presentation of the right to decide. When we are about to know the fruit of your work – and I do not know you, Mr Alonso – we can say that you have fulfilled the mission entrusted as a group of experts. Thanks to your work, we will have a first approximation to an articulated text in which areas of broad consensus have been identified, Mr Alonso. And also a few dissents. The Commission's way of working has been guided by discretion, seriousness, rigour, respect for different positions, and the search for mechanisms to approach positions. And this methodology has been a good practice, at least until, in the last two weeks, some political formations, Mr Alonso, have tried to condition that work from outside. I believe that the outcome of the committee's work will be positive in the broad consensus that the committee may be working on. It offers a basis for updating and deepening Basque self-government. I therefore again express my appreciation and appreciation for the work of the Committee of Experts. And now, when the conclusions are presented, or the text presented by the Committee of Experts, we will have to go back to this Parliament. I propose to modulate feelings: apply binomial realism more responsibility. I plan to disarm the words, and apply the criteria that have followed the commission: discretion, seriousness, rigour, respect the different positions, approach positions... It is a useful reference model to respond to the task we have entrusted: to offer a renewed framework of coexistence. This is the most honourable function of politics, in my view. Let us continue building on the basis of the consensus already reached, to seek agreements in the existing differences. Mr Alonso, we live in a time of epic and permanent electoral dispute. Building consensus on this scenario is complex, but the challenge and opportunity is to move forward on more and better self-government, which means more well-being. It is up to us to design the framework of coexistence of the coming years for our society, taking into account its plurality, its history and its major social wills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpology, made for the head of the economics and the sub-substantial department of the Artabanus of the Otero Galiridas, in relation to the distributions which are to be carried on in the budget against the change of climate." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u30	Yes, thank you. And good morning to all. Today's exercise, today's question, is quite simple, Mrs. Tapia. I wonder what you're really going to do to face the climateal emergency situation and how you'll reflect it in your budgets. Because what you've introduced us to, at least to us, is no good to us. We're tired of hypocrisy, we're tired of justifying. And we can't allow these budgets to adapt the budgets to the emergency climate. And of course, as it couldn't be otherwise, you, Mrs. Tapia, had to be the first in the class. And almost three-quarters of the climate budget you've put in, they're coming from your area. But of course, when you showed it to us, very strange things have appeared. And it looks like you've been painting yourself, and you've painted green what was actually green, but you've painted green what was yellow, what was brown, what was black... And you passed the brake. She went off the brake, and we and we caught her. And when we asked him, you, to get out of the way, lied to us. No tengo tempo de desmontgo todo. Pero me was born subrayar varias cupezes. Lo primero, la un rigor de un gobierno supuestamente sovere. And it's not only your fault, it's a general error. I think it's impossible to be serious on this subject. You can't be serious. When the slates of the ancients were introduced, it was said that two things were remarkable: the genus view and Eukakia bearable, the climateal budget. And they said there would be 540 million. See the sustainable Euskaki attachment But, about the concrete games that you have announced, there is much to say, because you have mixed what it is, what it seems and what it is not. And he's made a forcing to include everything. But of course, in that exercise of forcing things, you – I believe – have shown a rather worrying lack of knowledge of some key issues in the fight against climate change. And I want to focus on them, to see if we can just leave a few things unchecked. If it's before, I'd like to solve a doubt. This goes as a question: in your climateal appendix, in your department, there is no purchase of retractable electricity, and sometimes it appears. Why is that? Why, for example, don't you get a green electric match for the Basque Rascal Railway Network? I'm surprised. Because it's already green, and you've forgotten to put it on, or how's it going? I leave that to you as a question. The beast of itxi nahi dudan eztabaidetako bat, Renove planarena. Zuk klima-larrialdiko party sartu duzu. I told him in committee that we felt that the Renovation plan for petrol and diesel could not be considered as part of climate policy. And you said to me, "Hey, Mr. Otero, I don't give opinions. I'm not giving you an opinion. I'm giving you data and I'm telling you that the Renove is, that the Renove is part of the fight against climate change." And, of course, that day I didn't have time, but now I have a little more. And I'm gonna give you some data. According to the average age, the average emissions of vehicles to be replaced and new, the average of kilometers of their useful life, all based on official statistics, as you can imagine, we have to save in an optimistic scenario per kilometer traveled with the new cars 50 grams of CO 2 - No, no, no, This means that the life of the vehicle will save 8.5 tons of CO 2 - No, no, no, And that means that if the Renovation Plan extends, like the previous one, to about 2,000 gasoline and diesel vehicles, there will be a savings of 17,000 tons of CO 2 - No, no, no, But this has a B face, a B face that you don't like to count, because to measure real savings we have to do a life cycle analysis. Life cycle analysis, something that seems you do not finish understanding, neither for the Renove plan nor for the high-speed train, nor for the infrastructure in general. I mean, to get the full picture we have to count the savings from the exhaust pipe, of course, but also the emissions that these new vehicles entail putting on the road. Okay? And I've made an estimate, also based on the best science available, I can pass you the references. Putting a vehicle on the road costs manufacturing emissions, mining, transportation, people and materials, tires, machinery renovation, etc., costs 12.4 tons. For a Renovation Plan of 2,000 vehicles are 24,800 tons. In other words, the Renewed Plan for 2,000 petrol, diesel and diesel vehicles, on average, represents an increase in CO emissions of 7,700 tonnes. 2 - No, no, no, So you can't consider the Renove Gasoil plan as a fight against climate change. You can put it in support of dealers, like consumer help –regressive, because it has no income criteria – as electoral propaganda, if it does at a good time. I even admit that you can put it as an improvement in air quality in the urban environment, but you can never, ever put the Renove plan as a fight against climate change, unless you want to manipulate it. And the other question: I want to talk about the crown jewel. The issue of high-speed train and the variant-south rail, because it is especially bloody and has a great specific weight in the climate budgets, because if we take out this item we fall 20% of the climate budgets. And I tell you that there are at least four reasons why you, you can't put the high-speed train as an investment or as a climate expenditure. The first is the controversy over the life cycle analysis that I have just explained to you. It's no good, like the Renove, talking about it's electric and it's already, it emits less. Because you know that in the construction will emit more than 3 million tons of CO 2nd And there has been published a study, as you know, that studies net savings in emissions in the full life cycle. So, as climate investment, at least, we're gonna leave it there, it's questioned. Let us imagine that you are obviating this and telling me that you have a net saving of emissions. You have a second problem, because you have repeated, all of us, as active and passive, that the high-speed train is budgetaryly neutral, which is state investment. If it is budgetaryly neutral, in these budgets it is climatically neutral, because if you include it here you have a double accounting problem, because if the TAV is beneficial, this investment has to count Madrid, and not you, and much less both. So that's a big trap. But there's more. If you clear these two things, you have a third problem. Because if the high-speed train is climatically beneficial and they count it as their own investment – which is what they have done in the end – it turns out that the total budget effort in climate policies does not increase, but falls. Because in this same legislature there has been an approved budget, 2017, in which there were 355 million euros for the TAV. And I've done a sweep of it by applying its climate criteria and it turns out to me, of course, that in 2017 the climate budget was much bigger than we have in 2019. So, if you defend the high-speed train as climate and own spending, which is what you have done, the year of climate budgets these items are not increasing but they are decreasing. But above all there is a bigger problem, which is the biggest of all, that in the Committee on Budgets I, which I feared, asked him: "Is the high-speed train included in the climate budgets?" And you said to me, "No. It's not included." And it's in the session log. The accounts didn't fit me because where 256 million euros were going to come from in sustainable mobility within the Tapia department for climate budgets. And indeed – contrary to what you told me in committee – it was included. So you lied. He lied in parliamentary office, and that's where I understand we can't pass any. So I think there's only one way out now. Admit it was wrong. And we could talk about that, but, of course, in any case, I demand a correction here, because, if not, I think we need to talk about bigger words. lehendakariak Thank you, Mr. Otero. My God, Mrs. Tapia, the silence, the word is yours. Chiefs of Economics Developments and Sub-structions Well, Mr. Otero, I must thank you for finally, because the interpellation allows us to explain things better to you and me. And we have a little time for that. In that sense, perhaps, I was not clear that day. It's true, but we always explain that if the budget is full of 11,4 million euros this year, we always say, "They're always on their way." And a high-speed train is always like that. When we say that our division belongs to 962.7 million euros, it also says, "and so much segestio-cretion," in this case, "95 million." And when we mention that we consider the productive economy and infrastructure in the matter of climate change, we also say that 373,8 million euros are, and that it is properly said that 95 million are segestibles. That's right. It is one thing, then, where we place them, who are counted; we may do as you please. And that's why I said: "No, they're not ours directly. They're not ours directly. So, you have to tell them in a place." It's true. And that is why they are thus placed in our explanation: they are digested withgestiums. So, you have to tell them once, it's true, if you want Madrid here, if you want to. I don't care where you tell me. But it has to be mentioned that in our budgets we've said that the transition is a sighted policy for the Middle Ages. Which was 58 million euros. We were saying that there were technological projects, almost 12 million euros, direct, considering the course of the previous year's projects, and that it could be more, because, really, technological projects can act directly against climate change, or indirectly. So the live ones were nearly 12. We used to talk about a tolerable mobility, and we said, Transporte ferrovidarian, 176,1 millos de euros. Y decíamos: worka del train de alta velocidad – it is true – management appropriations, 95.297 million euros, which are discounted from the quota, therefore, if we consider them in the complete 11. billion of the government, must be there. And if we say they're management credits, they're part of the quota. We were talking about the southern railway variant, the mole, the tram and improvements in our lines. And we were also talking about smart electric buses. We were talking about land management policies, we were talking about sanitation and water sheet management in our ports, about repairing shelters, also in our ports, and about policies in agriculture, fisheries and the food industry, and they were detailed. But let's go to what you were asking me, in two very concrete elements. Since you're talking about being rigorous and being serious, I'm going to try to be rigorous and being serious. If we talk about the high-speed train and its contribution to the fight against climate change, it is not a new debate, it is a rather old debate and I have not wanted to go back too far in time, but there is a scientific article from a professor at the KTH at the Royal Institute of Technology in Sweden. I have chosen it because it is the most cited in all the publications as far as transport is concerned already in 2011. In it makes an analysis, as you like, by the way, and talks about the role of high-speed infrastructures in mitigation, in the fight against climate change, he talks about mitigation There is another study by an expert economist at the Martens Center for European Studies, in September 2019, that is, yesterday, in which he says that, in order to tackle the fight against climate change, Europe needs to embrace – he says 2 or the territorial development that this implies, and that, in the face of the crisis that is taking place, Europe must, he says, ride on the high-speed train before it leaves the station. Not content with that, the European Union itself, the European Commission commissioned the University of Delft in the Netherlands in May 2019 a report – without doubt you know it – that seeks to recognize and know the contribution of each mode of transport in policies against climate change. As is in Spanish I will read it literally, because there is translation into Spanish, and it says: "The precautionary principle of the European Union in relation to the environment suggests that the political leaders of the European Union must act now to avoid damage. The cleaning of transport by rail is an obvious solution, while at the same time alleviating congestion on European roads", an important problem, according to this study. "This must be supported by a solid investment, both through the Connect Europe mechanism, and by national resources in new and improved railway infrastructure, including the European freight corridors of the trans-European transport network and high-value-added high-speed border passenger lines in the European Union", i.e. the Basque Y as a corridor, as part of the Atlantic Corridor." This is said by the study that has been given to the European Union, and it continues afterwards, and – so that time does not run out – it says that the railway, the most energy-efficient mode of land transport, could fully play its role as a transport axis in an increasingly digitalized and non-cracked multimodal system, then not just the high-speed train, but all the improvements that we are making from the railway point of view can be considered this way. I was wondering about the electricity, and I'm not gonna forget it. Electricity is bought, I have told it on more than one occasion, centrally, and we have just approved it; therefore, it is where it has to be. I do not want to forget the subject of the Renove vehicle subsidy, taking into account, as you say, the whole general vision and the vision throughout life. A study by the Universidad Politécnica de Valencia recently published in Energy magazine, says: "If the Spanish diesel fleet before 2009 was replaced by new diesel vehicles E6, CO emissions 2 en las ciudades bajaran un 6%, pero el 22% en las careras." Pero va más allá. How you like to talk about a whiteer, you've made an analysis, if cars are gas or solid. But what if they're electric cars? Isn't it the same thing? Emissions are exactly the same. And speaking of whiteness, the electric batteries we speak of are not developed in Europe, but are developed in China, and there is an enormous justification in it, because we think electric batterys, which at the moment electric cars use, are perfectly clean, but, in China, the energy which they usually use does not come from retractable energy, but just the opposite: it's energy coming from coal. And all these things must be considered. So I agree we can make a general studio with you and do it, but let's not just do it in some cars or other. Besides, as we have said more than once, if those who have least means must change cars, because their fluids are enormous, and we must decrease the flow of our cities, and if this is supposed to be contrary to the climate change, we must help them to buy cars in different ways. Our policy is, therefore, against climate change; we do not say it, but they are based on different technical examinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u32	You said you weren't clearly on the commission. I've asked you to do one more thing. I didn't say you weren't smart, I said you lied and you have a chance here to make a statement. Because you said you didn't count the investment of a high speed train as a climate game, and then when I asked you for some Deglose, it appears in exile as a policy and a game to face the climate alarm. Okay? Then I told you about the emissions with the train that there's a consonant and that we can have different opinions or different references. That's one thing, but not to mention Madrid if this investment is climate, that's unacceptable. Because it's no good to say in the last 15 years that our train isn't high-speed investment in Madrid, and now, if it has climate benefits, we're going to throw it at ourselves. That's cheating. And if you want to cheat, I'm telling you the same thing. Mr. Below, if you get a high-speed train into the 2017 budgets, it's a lot too big to help you. We're saying your budgets aren't designed to design climate variable in the funds. Eta ziaboga benetan egin beharrean, Jasangaritasun Energeticikoaren Legearen 100 milioiak mahai heurean jarri order, zure départamentuan egon de 100 milioiko igoeratik 75eko igoera partido Bakarrean egon da –atzo esan nizun –, industrial politician finkatzera donana. From EUR 25 million in last year's departure to EUR 100 million in this year's departure. That is the real differential fact of your department's budgets, Mrs Tapia, and not climate policy. And it is not worth, to underline climate policy, to underline any kind of departure, which is what you have ended up doing and you look perfectly in the Renove. You have put us as a climatic departure the conditioning of the urbanization of assets of Sidenor. You have put us as a climatic departure the urbanization of plot six of the Errotaberri polygon of Zarautz. You have put us as a climatic departure the interests of Sendotu. You have put us as a climate departure the improvement of commercial structures. And you have put us as a climate policy and sustainability stabilization of the Aspe hillside, with 3.3 million euros. Sustainability what is it? Hold the slope? I mean, is that sustainability? Of course, it's just that you've gone from braking, Mrs. Tapia, you've gone from braking. He's completely, artificially swollen what wasn't green and he's got what came out of him: a churro, a churro. In short, you have a problem. Because, as I told you yesterday, we can be fooled and we can be told that they have invested and not, and the rest of the opposition will be able to say Mass, even get someone to say that these budgets are climate friendly Yesterday the European Parliament declared the climate emergency, as you will know, and they said that one cannot pass by grade and a half. Do you know what this means? Badakizue zer esan nahi two horrek? Araban, Bizkaian and Gipuzkoan due back Urtetik aurrera hasita, Eta urte bat Bakarrean failed 2 On emissions. He's in the traps.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u33	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u34	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, Mr. Otero, you're asking for humility and, well, you're giving us such lessons here as if you're the only one who knows it here. Maybe you know a lot more than we do, and that's what I accept. But here you have some kind of registered on humility, about logicism, and a lot of topics, which, in fact, is not acceptable. When we mention so many and so many games which are connected with endurance and contrary to climate change, we must do a great deal of work to prevent climate change and draining. And it seems to me that there may be something that has escaped us, but we have tried rather sharply which game it is that affects and which it is not. And we tried to control him very well. And that day, at the committee, I mentioned a brief game about the investigation, and I'm sure it's much more. So, really, strictly speaking, I'm sure we'd find more. But the question is not how much it is, what is 400 or 500, but what really lies behind and what is will. And that's very clear. If we link climate changes and budgets, we can do it differently. When I said what growth was to prevent climate change, and when, on the other hand, it belonged to our department, I said that they were both masters enough, and I was sure you know them. Perhaps I was mixed up there too. But I said that the principal changes in our department were as follows: Fixing the fund and in the Euscal Organization of energy, 20 million more supportability and retractable energy were displayed. That was the main thing to do. What does it mean, suddenly, that the government woke up yesterday and decided to fight climate change? No. There were a few games and some politics that had been going on for a long time, and not only from this government, which came from years ago. They must be dug up and kept up, of course. But we didn't wake up yesterday, because the budget wasn't the opposite of climate change and the present one, but this time we tried to settle where those lines are. But there are some policies that follow. That's clear and obvious. Zuk zeuk aipatzen zenuen, sheath, bean bean talz Europar Batasunak larrialdi klimatikoa aldarrikatu duela. Eta bukatu nahi dut European Green Deal-ek esaten duenarekin eta komisio berriareren presidentak berak garraio-komisarioa izango denari proposeatu eta esan dionarekin: according to the new structure and organization chart of the European Commission, the new Transport Commissioner will have as a guide of actions an executive vice president, Frans Timmermans, who you know very well, to coordinate the work in the European Green Pact. In the letter which, in some way, captures the mission, the objectives to be achieved by the Commissioner, the President tells the transport Commissioner what the priorities will be. And he says: a reduction of pollution in order to make Europe a climate-neutral continent. It also says that it has to address the modernisation of transport systems, through connected and automated mobility based on innovation, and that, in addition, we have to complete the missing infrastructure links and the trans-European transport network as quickly as possible. The order of climateal emergency and of what is to be a transportation is sufficiently clear, and they are perfectly conformable to what we are talking about. So I think there's nothing wrong with that, just the opposite, and what the European Union says, and what is in our budgets and politics, is to be said to be perfectly united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interra, José Ramone Becerra Carollo, members of the Podemos team to the head of Economics and Sub-Separations, about the port of Plentia and the polemic reorganization of the marines." Mr. Becerra, your word is yours. Please, take that off. Please, please, the audience.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. Mrs Tapia, when we propose to organize something on a personal level, a drawer, a closet, the criterion we use is not to leave it worse than before. When what we propose is to organize a public space, in this case the port and the ria of Plentzia, obviously applying that criterion, we intend to leave it better than it was. But, in addition, let it be so that they can continue to use all users and users and that they do so more comfortably than before. And in this matter of the rearrangement of the port and ria of Plentzia, you have something to do wrong, because, in a village of only 4,000 inhabitants, you have managed to get more than 1,400 people to go out on the street last weekend to protest what you have done in the port. And my question is what you did wrong. I'll give you my opinion, and then I want to know yours. You've presented a plan to organize the harbor and the Navy. One without any participation. Two, regardless of the characteristic characteristic of the marine in Placentia. Ye have introduced that the banks are public places without respect. You have introduced the project without measuring its injurious influences, whether of passivity or environmental or culture, which is important. And finally, you've made a plan without making sure that it's a place for all of us. Five flaws. And therefore it is not strange, that ye have agreed, but agreed against thee. Almost all political groups have appeared against you, including socialists, then they've stepped back, but they've expressed their anger. Most of the inhabitants of Placentia have appeared against you, and most of all, and this is most important, almost all the users: sportsmen, patterns, fishermen, clubs... Almost all of them. So, my question and my interaction is the purpose of knowing what you're going to do to solve these mistakes. I will give you the solutions that our group would propose – and I would like to contrast them with you in this inquiry – on how they can fix the disguise that they are riding in the ria and in the port of Plentzia. I have told you that, among the serious mistakes they have made, the first is that of having done so without participation and without public information. I therefore believe that the first answer to be given is to withdraw the draft, as many opposition groups have requested. The second point is that you have made that project without considering the special characteristics of the ria. That is, in the pantalans they have raised, they have made some calculations, considering the effect of the wind. But they have not considered the effect of strong tidal currents, they have not considered the effect of avenues that can occur in the Plentzia ria which, as you know, is the end of the Butron basin, of almost 250 square kilometers. And they have not considered that in the ria of Plentzia, when there are low tides, one cannot sail, and that, when the tide is maximum, the speed of the current is so strong that, most likely, the ships will not be able to dock or untrap in the pantalans they have posed. Moreover, as I have told you before, they have not considered the banks of the estuary to be public spaces. That is, when you have proposed to put in new pantalans, you have blinded access ramps, and you have blinded stairs that were publicly accessible. I mean, you're privatizing a common space for private users. Moreover, they have not evaluated the impact it has: the environmental impact, the landscape impact and the cultural impact of this project. For all this, and for all this alone, they would have to do it completely. But it is that, moreover, you have proposed a project in which there will be no room for all and all – as I said – users. These pantalans that you have raised do not solve that problem. With these pantalans, the maximum offer is 400 moorings, counting on those that already exist right now in the port. And you know that the demand is above the 470s, only considering ships of Plentzia and Barrika. What does that mean? That considering that when you put on the new pantalans you will be able to ask for moorings people who do not live either in Plentzia or Barrika – that is, people who will bring their ships from Getxo, Bilbao or other places further away – at least 75 local boats will have to leave the ria. And this is especially important because, when the 2014 award was made, more than 120 boats were left out, but they were allowed to continue docking in the bay with buoys. Now, if that happens, if they stay out, they're gonna have to get those boats out of the ria. So, I'm not going to extend much longer. What I would like is, first of all, to tell us why so many mistakes have been made, and all together. And secondly, what are they going to do to solve this issue and somehow not create any more discomfort in the people they have already created to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u37	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. [[Applause]] Tapia andrea. [[Applause]] Quiet, please. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours. Chiefs of Economics Developments and Sub-structions Well, it will not deny me that along the Plentzia range there are many vessels that are currently hindering the normal transit through the navigation channel and that pose a risk to safety, precisely because of the lack of management, the absence of documentary control and the absence of minimum regulatory compliance, including environmental compliance. Starting from there, we decided to order and, in view of this situation, analyze what was happening and make a first analysis of the census of vessels that were in the different areas of the municipality of Plentzia. From this analysis the following data were obtained: that there were 433 vessels, 259 registered; of them, 247 identified and 12 unidentified; that there were 174 – nothing less – unregistered, 120 without visible registration and 54 apparently abandoned. Well, based on that data, which I believe are important, a first ordination was proposed, a management project using pantalans, which was presented in February 2019, which worked with the municipality itself and from which there will be 390 berths available for the port of Plentzia: 182 pantalans displaced along the ria – you certainly know the project – and 208 in the inland port, where they are now. With the remodeling we would win from 165 to 208 places. Well, how was the cast going? Well, it's also a regular procedure, as it is done in any other port managed by EKP. And I'm surprised that you're telling me that we're going to privatize, when really what is done is just the opposite. At the moment, ordination and work are in the hands of moorers; what we propose is to help and collaborate, and be EKP – you will remember that we passed the Ports Act and that it is becoming a public entity under private law – who manages all those places and does so exactly as it is done in the rest of the ports managed by EKP. I mean, so there's no difference. It must also be mentioned, that it is not in some degree a new work of the harbour, but rather a new work of panthers, and that in this sense it has no influence either in its depths or even in its depths. So, on this side, it's discussed. But you have mentioned several things which are not true, or which are not absolutely true. What kind of reports have been made in this project? As far as the environmental impact is concerned, it has been examined whether the panthers are or, as it is said of youth, "fondear a traves de muertos al mar." We have seen the least influence on it, and it has been discussed. But even from the point of view of the landscape it has been shown what influence it will have. In like manner, from the point of view of access, what they will be able to examine and control. Even from security point of view, how space we occupy. So they've all been counting on it. What else? It must be mentioned what happened yesterday, and I think it's important to mention it here. Yesterday Proa was voted by the team and said: "La asociación de usurpers Proa aval a Proa proyecto de reorderion de la roía de Plentiado por el Gobierno Vasco." 97 votes, contrary to 27, 4 Abstensium and a white vote. So I think there's a whale there. But, further, I believe that the main key, or important to us, is the notice the mayor himself brought out by the City Hall, and I'll read in this way because I don't want to mix things up. He mentioned: "El Gobierno m mogara de sociava el proyecto, puesto que a respusta a una reivinción y da solución a los actules de navegación y de acceso a las embarcianes." Baina ez da hor gelditzen. Baita ere aipatzen du: "This is a good project for Plentzia, since it would respond to this demand and solve the current problems of navigation and the difficulties of access to the ships founded along the river". Baina alkateak beast zerbait gehiago aipatu zuen, éta nik uste dut hemen dagoela gako nagusia. Hau esaten du: "The Basque Government has informed us that the project today offers enough scope to be able to incorporate solutions adapted to the needs of neighbours. The Port Authority has shown its willingness to study the feasibility of these requests that we want to collect. And that, no doubt, is very good news." Halaber, esan zuen beraiek hasiko dutela prozesu bat: "It will start a brief round of contacts with social agents of the municipality to collect their demands and transfer them to the Basque Government for study and possible incorporation into the project". So if there's a project, there's improvements on the side of the population, we'll get it from the city's hands and the mayor himself, and we'll try to get incorporate to make things as best we can. But I think Placence requires a more orderly and much more regular thing in this sense. That's our goal, we're ready to work with the amateurs and the City Hall and to improve this project from that cooperation. But the project is necessary, and has considered all the things I have said about it. Thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Becerra, your word is yours. becer carollo It is obvious that the laughter needs to be rearranged. That can be done otherwise, it is also evident. You have not been right, neither in terms of impacts, nor in terms of technical solutions. There are far less impressive solutions, there are solutions that would allow you to incorporate many more boats than you have done and that would even require less investment. They only have to go to ports from other places, from ria with currents as strong as those of Plentzia, go to see Brittany, go to Cornwalls and find technically feasible solutions and that above do not cause a closure or privatization of the margins of that ria. You have said that you have obtained the approval of the city council and that you have also obtained the approval of the association of moorers Proa. This is a particularly interesting issue, because you got that endorsement after you went – and let me say it – to "eat your ear" to the mooring association at a meeting you held, I think it was November 22 that not even all the partners could go to, because even the association itself doesn't know how many partners it has. So that is especially curious and that should give us an idea of how much participation you are claiming or defending is not such. You also referred to the Ports Act. He said "let's now attend to people's demands." When the Ports Act was processed – Mrs Otamendi will remember the same as I, because we were the two groups that opposed that process – the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party introduced an amendment by increasing the functions, putting all the functions that the Department of Economic Development was going to have in matters of port policy. They gave him all the competencies and all the functions: planning of the actions, approval of projects of construction and expansion of new ports or infrastructures and harbour equipment; management, construction, exploitation, conservation, protection, defense and discipline of the hydraulic public domain; granting, modification and extinction of concessions. Absolutely all the skills. What's going on? That when these powers are put in place and, moreover, they are implemented unilaterally, because one has absolute power, he has to take into account where he is acting, in what public space he is acting, because the Basque ports are spaces that are being stolen from one people to put them in the hands of another administration, which in this case is the Basque Government. And I say they're stealing from the people because somehow they're giving all the power to organize that space to an entity that's not from the people. Our group then tabled an amendment to make the consultative and participatory bodies, where the Government and local governments were brought together, inter-agency and binding decision-making bodies. You two objected. We called for equal representation in these bodies, with binding decisions and for the participation of civil society and the social partners in the municipality with a voice, but without a vote. I think you know better than I do what a port is for a Basque coastal village. It's not just a private boat parking lot. A port in any village of Euskadi is the center of social life, is the cultural symbol of the village, is a recreational space and is even an area of economic interest. You can't go in like an elephant in a junkyard to organize something that the people, no matter how much the 2018 Ports Act has changed, still consider theirs. And the Government cannot go to do what it wants and how it wants in that space that the people consider theirs. I therefore ask you, Mrs Tapia, to withdraw this project out of respect for the people of Plentzia and to do so again with your participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u38	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. [[Applause]] Quiet, please. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u39	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Becerra, I don't think I have anything new to say now, but I want to insist on what I've just said and what you've discussed again. On the one hand, and on the other, I have mentioned the Law of the Ports, and it was clear in the Law of the Ports that water is about the people; but in some measure it is a harbour, and that it is not the people. And we who live in such a country near the sea know how difficult it is that the people and the harbour may live together, as it were, for security must be maintained, and at the same time should be given to the people. And I think we're just trying to do it and we always do it that way. On the other hand, when I mentioned who should do it, and how, at this moment, we are doing two things rather than the law; "EKP, which is now a social society, an anonymous societate, become the "epúblico derecho primo." And that's what we're talking about, public, because you mentioned the public and private. I ought to thank these amateurs, who have really done a tremendous job in the course of time as a corporation. But it is true that they have difficulties. You said yourself: they don't know how many they are and who they are. And when we looked at how many ships there were and how much permissions they were, that just came out. I believe that at the present day it is necessary to say to the people of Plentia and to any one of you who are in the Chamber, that experience with EKP exists without going to Brittany, and I shall mention two to you. One, because in this too it was difficult to reconcile himself to the community and to the people: It was the Bermeoko. When the reorganisation had taken place, something of the Placia had happened, because it had to get better there too, it had to be reorganized, and the privates did what EKP had to do. And that, well, has taught us a great deal, but it has also shown the people that the presence of EKP has improved things, because there are many more resources with the public, and things are easier to do. I'd ask to see the example there too. What's the other one? Lethargic. We introduced our suggestion more than two years ago. We're handing things in hand with the council and saying, "Yes, there's a problem here, not here, there's a party here in Lecation September, and there's also a party that has to be kept and tied up with the port's activity... "and we have always had this sensibility from the editors of the harbors and from the department. So it's not news today, it's something you do every day. And what are we planning right now? Exactly. The project has been able to account for all the things I've been talking about, different impacts, the impacts that can be and can happen from here. And at this very moment, as the mayor said yesterday, he's ready to take all the contributions and we're ready, as usual, with the council, in order to improve, by hand, by hand, as we are doing, or as they have done in Bermeon, or in any other country. But I think that both these examples are near, and are very good examples. In one, because there was a similar problem and we could see how we're working on the other. In this case, I say again, that the giving of it to the public will produce other advantages, and also the advantages of organization and security to the people; and we have never attempted to privatize it; the contrary is, at this time, something public, which is the public, and which gives them public service. And you seem to be saying the opposite, and that is not the case. EKP is public, and port management is public, which will remain public, as it is in other ports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interadectition, of Myria Kotja in Ibaña EH Collectors to the Chief Department of Eplegus and Polic Society, about the retrogression of Euscal Autonomy in the Society of Society." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u41	Yes, thank you. Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief of the Artola generous department, good day. As you know, Caritas, Caritas Euská, presented the data of the second Euskal Foesssa report last week at Donostian. I dare say it is a report which ought to be read with great attention and attention, especially because it is made for us, because it is made for those who are to make political decisions. In the same way as in the EPDS report a few months ago, the facts received in this report show that it is a permanent, permanent, and rising reality in ours. According to the report, it's about 85% of Basque people in the social integration area. The society of the choice, the society of the suspended society The society expelled Baina, EPDS txostenean ohartarazi genuine bezala, bada txosten honek erakusten dueen argazkian etorkizunera begira bear kezkagarria deen elementu bat, arrisku eta zirgabetasunarena. Integrazio-emuan egonda, 360,000 are inguru dira diurgabetasun-egoeran dadenak. It underlines the report by Caritas who have discovered that, within the integrated society, a breakdown is taking place at the base. We are talking about a very large group of people, the largest since the analysis of the data, according to the EDPS survey, which is in a situation of insecurity, because their mattress of resistance is weak and, if it affects them, have difficulty dealing with it, and they will be the first to notice the symptoms of the economic slowdown. People on the edge, at risk of falling and without a network. These people account for 16.4% of the population, a percentage that has grown, and a lot, over the past five years. A group of people and households proportionally much larger than that of the Spanish state as a whole, and a reality that matifies this initial figure of 85% of society included, because it reveals how people are living the economic recovery that is so much talked about: with a great dose of precariousness. The vital precariousness is established, Mrs Artolazabal, in our society, this is the new Basque reality. According to this report, the degree of integration is raised in EAE, but the extreme neglect also increases in ours. And EAE is one of the autonomy members of the highest social differences in the state. The inhabitants of the desert are more and more remote from the rest of the community, and are gathering more and more difficulties in the houses. On the other hand, poverty and danger factors are placed at the return of home, health, dependence, and employment. The data around the housing is known, 25% of the population has a problem in this area. Even the EPOS clearly showed that dependencies are an important source of social differences. But I'd like to stay here a little tonight with the job. And the indicators on the integration gallery of EAE are very clear. It's 100,000 people who can't respond to their basic needs. 11.4% of people at work are in a state of neglecting EAE. And it's about 48% of the principal supporters of families in the ends of society. Social retirement and employment are becoming more and more compatible, for low wages, for lack of choice and the high temporary rate that condemns us to the exit of the trade. You will have to recognise, at least, Mrs Artolazabal, that this job does not seem to be the best social policy. Wrong password. Eta hitz egin genezake, adibidez, profilez, bazterketa-egoeran egoteko arrisku gehien duten horietaz. The bath you went to dena esanda dagoela, eta erealidad hau, gorea, ukaezina dagoeneko. As I have said, I do not wish to place myself on the scene at this moment of discussion, uncertainty, in the presence of this narrative, to discuss how we react, how we focus the exit, and that is my intention. So far, what did you say to me? Well, actually, about these facts, about those readings, very little. When the EPDS data came out, my friend Laura Gómez wrote an article and I think that what you've read in time is very good at explaining what you've been doing so far. There was no one to be afraid of him. Señora Artola generous, I think you've been up to that trial for the last time. Perhaps that's why you spent two long months taking out a press notice built from negoism when the data was taken from the EPDS, and the greatest rate of poverty and poverty was measured in front of an incest, even if only that the perception of poverty was improved. Then we saw comparisons, European degrees, etc. We looked at the state and pulled-it had to be admitted here-perhaps some data is bad. But the point is we're standing behind it. It's just that we don't see any more deep reflection during this whole time, that we got those data in time of economic recovery, that they're dark times, and that the inertia, I think, no longer gives more. You were still saying that you used the data used to correct and plan your own policies. But we haven't seen anything like it in your last month's practice, really. And, surely, the budgets presented are the most obvious proof of that, aren't they? There are no strategic bets in the sense of those new realities that mark us the EDPS, Foessa, or anything. These budgets are neither green nor purple, but neither are they more social. All that data, all that new reality that comes to us in an increased way, has not been able to change this year's budget as little as possible, nor to reinforce it, nor to correct it. There are no strategic bets on insertion, nor are there any on employment. It does not seem that those days organized in the Kursaal were even inspiring. But the fact is, I+D+i and social collapse are two essential elements of the UKullu government's lines. We've talked a lot about I+D+i, we've talked about the situation, but I'd say the EPDS data and now the Foesss data are very questionable about politics for the social movement and distribution of wealth. And that's why I wanted to ask you today, ma'am, what's new, new sizes, what's happening, to give you back the recoil that's in the social fence of the EAE.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u43	Mrs. President, Congressman, of the señora Kottaja, chief physician. Mrs Kortajarena, first of all I wanted to stress to you that we share the concerns, what I do not share is your simplistic view of very complex situations. The Basque centres themselves, more specialized in these problems, analyse the increasing complexity of social exclusion. For these specialists, poverty and exclusion do not always go hand in hand. According to their studies, 4.6% of the Basque population is poor, but not excluded; and 5.9% live excluded, but not poor. Following the words of these specialists, the concept of exclusion has ceased to divide between up and down to settle between inside and out. And the growing ageing of the population is bringing new forms of exclusion across Europe. Fighting loneliness among the elderly is one of our priorities, and I assure you that our effective service of teleassistance Beti We are allowed to be very aware of these new forms of exclusion linked to aging and loneliness caused by social and family changes. Antes de seguir, quiero resaltarle una cifra que informe Foesssa, tan citado pored, también subraya. An El porcentage, coo thinks ha dicho, de la poblacion en inclusion plena en Euscide al 85%. Eukadin, they're in complete society, 85% of the population. Inclusion has improved significantly between 2013 and 2018 years, the percentage of the total integration has been almost 20 points in the last 20 years. I don't like it, but reality is that our differences rates are small, and they have been reduced from 2013 to 2018. So the price of socialization has descended from 44% to 28%. Expansions levels have descended from 17% to 15%. The percentage of the population in full inclusion in Euskadi, as I said, is 85%, and inclusion has improved significantly between 2013 and 2018. The percentages of full integration have grown by almost 20 points in recent years. I am not satisfied, but the reality is that our inequality rates are reduced and have been decreasing between 2013 and 2018. Thus, the precarious inclusion rate has fallen from 44 to 28 %, and exclusion levels have fallen from 17 to 15 %. Social exclusion rates in Euskadi are the lowest in the State. Referring to the latest known data, extreme poverty in Euskadi affects 51 people out of 1,000, while in Europe it catches 60. In addition, there has been a significant decline in the population affected by exclusion due to employment and housing. These are the factors that most condition inclusion and progress. And the progress I'm telling you is remarkable. But, despite this favourable context, what has happened is a comparative loss of income in the lower income groups, as it grew among the most favoured population, and that is something that worries us. One of the hypotheses that we come up with in order to understand this complex situation can again be rooted in this newly ageing community, and what does the Basque Government do in the face of this complexity? As the Basque Government and institutions intervene far above the rest of all the autonomous communities in social protection. Social expenditure accounts for 135 % of State expenditure, i.e. 35 % more than the average. In Euskadi, twice as many euros are invested per person as in the Spanish State, and this figure is invariably recorded year after year in all kinds of independent reports. The Government will also continue to implement the fourth inclusion plan in coordination with third-sector deputies, municipalities and entities. In the face of complex situations, multiple levers of action since the interinstitutional agreement. I would like to stress to you, Mrs Kortajarena, that 80% of the initiatives that are included in this plan are already in operation, always alert to carry out and analyse multidisciplinary studies that will allow us to better understand the reality and continue to take action with an attitude of continuous improvement. We know that, although at lower levels than in the European Union or Spain, inequality has tended to grow slightly in Euskadi since the start of the crisis and, according to the Gini index, we are four points below the Union and almost seven points below Spain. But we are not satisfied with this data, nor are we triumphant, Mrs Kortajarena. Full integration is growing, but we have not achieved all our objectives. Unfortunately, there is a chronification and a chronified exclusion. The consideration of poverty as a relative phenomenon makes the poverty line grow if average income increases, and the average of poverty is established on the basis of percentages of average income. If growth is uneven, the social poverty line can grow, albeit from a relative perception point of view. And yes, poverty is growing, because there is a very marked increase in poverty thresholds as a result, in turn, of the increase in average income. And let me reinforce some of the main conclusions contained in this report. The picture we have left is that in 2018, as I told you, almost 85% of the population of Euskadi is in a situation of inclusion. According to the report, levels of social integration have improved considerably between 2013 and 2018, and in 2013 the majority group of Basque society was that of precarious integration, a 45% of the population on that date, and in 2018 the majority group is that of full integration, with 56.6%. The proportion of the population in full integration status in 2018 is therefore nearly 20 points higher than five years ago. While this percentage of the population in full integration is growing, we are concerned that overall exclusion rates are barely reduced and that severe exclusion is gaining weight. However, two important elements in Basque social dynamics relating to this change need to be taken into account. Firstly, during the post-crisis period, Euskadi plays a role as a land refuge for many people who are affected by the processes of impoverishment of the crisis period. This is particularly reflected in an immigration that is comparatively much higher in terms of the immigration observed in the rest of the State. And, secondly, during the above-mentioned period, the volume of people without the ability to gain access to emancipation is significantly reduced. Both processes, however, have as their counterpart the increase in absolute numbers of households in the most precarious situation in terms of economic and social integration. This report also notes that the ageing of the population exerts significant pressure to deal with situations of exclusion, and that this increased social spending may have reached a level where the problem is not the volume of the problem, but the way it is distributed among the different groups and population profiles. In our view, the adoption of the new Income Guarantee Income Management Act can help to improve this distribution. Income guarantee income reform should help to improve the situation of families with children, as well as those with access to excessively low pay for work. The risk of social exclusion is higher among households supported by young people, women, immigrants and the unemployed, as well as among households composed of large and single-parent families. In short, I could tell you that we are starting from a good situation, with 85% of the population in full inclusion. But we are concerned, on the one hand, with the chronification or stagnation of situations of more severe exclusion and, on the other hand, with the fragility of the network of the collective that has been installed in precarious inclusion. In this draft budget that we have tabled for 2020, we have included tools that will enable us to meet these challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u45	Bai, eskerrik asko. I do not know if we share that vision that I was saying, what we do share is reading, because you have also brought here data from the Foessa report, with which, if I have brought here a simplistic vision, it is the same one that you have brought. I find it rather serious to say that, after an analysis as solvent as Foessa puts to us, which is the data that I have brought, because I have not brought any harvest data of my own, you tell me that this is a simplistic vision. I reaffirm myself, and you should reaffirm yourself after what you have read to us here, in the consequences of Foessa's report, and it is that the data point to a process of social polarization. Both situations of full integration and situations of severe exclusion tend to increase, in addition to the increase in the number and relative weight affected by situations of severe exclusion, which is accompanied by a worsening of their situation and a greater accumulation of deficiencies. And this is the new reality that we have, accompanied by all those details that you have given here on the ageing of the population and another series of details, which are reflected in the report. I believe that the story, the story built by this government is already disassembled, is already disassembled in that Foessa report. And, as I was saying, I didn't want to go into a data war here. I want to look into the future today and that is why I was asking you what plans you have for the future, what they propose when you are recognizing here that Euskadi has a different reality and that, in view of the future, it has a number of elements that are, at least, worrying and that need to be answered. And it is no use for us to reaffirm or underline this 85% of integration issue. As important is the situation of integrated people as that of those who are not. And this is a concern that is not new to us. Look, two years ago, I did my first interaction to President Urkullu. I remember perfectly, because I was so nervous. I was more nervous at this moment than I was when I got there, because Urkullu put on something like that. And then, two years ago, we were talking about "de la cara B de Euskadi." We were talking to President Urkullu of that society that was standing behind us two years ago. And we argued that we weren't satisfied with managing poverty. We're not satisfied. And we don't just focus on those people who are integrated. We aim to divide prosperity in the political project we aim at. We have a purpose to divide prosperity for all of us. And not to control the state of poverty. And to do the comparisons in this is highly interesting, but the analysis of the data is very important to give you the progress that you have to look forward to. And if that requires anything, the chief physician of the field is triunifalism and comparison less, and new impulses and leaps. This country requires a clear leader to respond to this new reality, which stands parallel to a clear leader and a new strategy, to offer opportunity and guarantees to the peoples. Besides, I think the strategy must be two axes, the strategy which this country needs. First, it needs protection, it needs protection. Not only the revenues which will come from the rent, but between the Rhodians about the decisions which are to be taken in the area of the housing, the law which we have presented this week, and the decisions which are to be taken in the development of the social services. And you have here expressed your views on the rental revenue to ensure your incomes, but I think the time has already come to redefine your strategy, because it's unproposed. And at the same time he needs his own rights. This country requires also a proper sphere of euphora for commerce. It is clear to us what we need to transport this people far and to distribute their prosperity, but I will ask you again, Chief Artolalli, the question which I have asked you at first: What new plan? Presidents Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours. The Chiefs of Police and Employments of the World and Society Mrs Kortajarena, I believe that you and I have the same concern, and, moreover, we have discussed it on numerous occasions in this same matter and in this very Chamber. I would like to say to you that the Government's efforts to make the situation better for the people we live in this country are very important, and throughout this legislature we have been putting it on the table. We have been implementing policies with resources and have seen the results they are delivering. And the results, Mrs Kortajarena, are that at the moment 85% of the people we live in Euskadi are in a situation of inclusion. But it is also true that we have a problem and that I recognized in my first speech. And I think that proves that we are neither self-complacent, nor triumphalistic. It is true that we cannot deal with all these initiatives only from social policies, and therefore in that IV Inclusion Plan, with the cooperation of all the departments, we have been putting on the table different initiatives, and those initiatives are giving their results, although we are indeed concerned about situations that are being chronicled, as I said. But we are living in Euskadi a change in the social and family structure and changing reality leads us to update our programs and also the measures we have implemented. We have at this moment, as I said, a multidimensional look that is already contained in this IV Inclusion Plan, which is what we will do during this legislature. We've been analyzing, diagnosing, establishing those tools so we can start them up. And we're putting them in motion. I believe, deeply, that the best tool the Basques have, even though you don't like it, is employment. I think we have things to do in employment and I think that job is giving opportunities to people who are in a situation of vulnerability, to long-term unemployed, to young people, to women, to immigrants... because, moreover, this week we knew that the record of immigrants affiliated with Social Security had occurred in Euskadi. Therefore, it is a good fact and that employment policy, which is sure to be improved, is indeed giving important results, giving opportunity to the people we live in this country. But we still have to work. When we talk about inclusion in that inclusion plan, which is aimed at promoting the inclusion of people in situations of social exclusion, we have included numerous actions. And these actions affect in all areas of everyday life that may make it impossible to exercise the right to work, to education, to training, to culture, to health or to decent housing. And, through the development of actions foreseen in it, it is expected to reduce the incidence of risk factors. The goal, as I say, is to prevent situations of risk of exclusion and vulnerability from becoming chronic. And right now we're doing a lot of initiatives. I have already commented on some of the new lines of action in the presentation of the Draft Budgets. Labour integration policies for people still receiving GIR will be strengthened. A number of programmes are under way, with innovative policies that will enable them to have these opportunities. And in this area stands out an item of 1.8 million euros destined to finance the follow-up and accompaniment of people who are in pre-work situation, in collaboration with the Basque municipalities. We also want to help overcome these difficulties of employability that they have. For the 2020 financial year, we also foresee a strong commitment in the field of disability. To this end, we will increase the amount allocated to special employment centres and support units for the maintenance and creation of more jobs. We will extend this heading by 9.1 million, reaching 50.6 million for special employment centres. And we will also allocate 5 million to support units, with an increase of almost 20%. And this is a very important effort, Mrs Kortajarena. The integration companies – you know them well – are also a model of success in the Basque Country, they contribute to greater social cohesion and we will continue to support them. We will continue to promote the measures put in place to give priority to employment in those most vulnerable groups and incentives to encourage the recruitment of women and young people. If at some point these people, because of their pre-work situation, could not access a regular labour market or a protected market, we are also working on social services, providing and continuing with the EUR 20 million fund for consolidation. I, Mrs Kortajarena, end by telling her that we are concerned about the same issues and that we are taking steps to try to solve them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. 9th point on the subject list: "The question, Yahcov Ruiz Chico, a member of the Podemos, made to the Chief of Police and Society, concerning the decree which regulates the rules and compacts of social society on the euscal system of social services." Mr. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u47	Egun where you're going. Madam President, Mrs Artolazabal. It is an honor for me to come up to this rostrum for the first time today. It is even more so to raise a question of utmost importance for the future of social services in the Basque Country. The public information phase for the draft decree regulating the social concert scheme and the agreements in the Basque system of social services has begun, but this content has not yet been published or accessible. So, according to what this decree may contain, I am opening today in this Chamber asking the Government and, in particular, Mrs Artolazabal, what the Basque Government is going to do to ensure quality public services that do not open the door to the commercialization of social services. And I ask this question because we have a Social Services Act passed more than ten years ago, but there are, however, very important aspects which, even today, have not yet been regulated or implemented. We are concerned about the issues set out in this decree. We are concerned about the orientation that this may have: whether, in the face of the current indefinacy, it is going to be a step forward in protecting essential services for our society or whether it is going to be a step backwards, opening the door to private profit-making companies and investment funds. And it is that private companies, investment funds, shareholders have, logically, as their main objective to have the greatest possible benefit, which is very legitimate, but absolutely incompatible with the provision of social services with guarantees and quality. And this is not that I say it, it is that, unfortunately, we have many examples that support this statement. We have, for example, the case of the Home Help Service at the Town Hall of Arrasate/Mondragon, where just over a year ago the service was abandoned by the union of companies that developed it, because it was no longer profitable, if it could not continue to exploit its workers. Or as with the Bizkaia residences, in 2017, when many of its workers were almost a year on strike to denounce not only their precarious working conditions, but also huge gaps in the provision of the service. So, of course, it was a lucrative business, which involved a million euros a year in some centers, which leads us to have an investment fund interested in the purchase of seniors' residence, as the real estate investment company Adriano Care, a real estate investment company, has just done. Is that the model we want? It is clear that an entrepreneur, that an investor what puts in the center is profit, legitimately. The question is what this Government wants to put at the centre in terms of social protection: the profit of third parties or the people to whom it is responsible to care and protect. If Euskadi is at the forefront, which is at the forefront, in terms of social protection, it is largely because it has a rich base of social entities that, far from giving priority to dividends, have an intrinsic vocation in their DNA to offer the best possible services. If Euskadi is at the forefront of social protection it is because he has an excellent network of professionals. And this luck, this pride, which Euskadi has of having such valuable resources neither rains from the sky nor waters itself, requires protection by public institutions, protection for our and our professionals in the third sector. It is because of all these concerns about the good development of one of the Euskadi icons, which is increasingly threatened, that we ask the Basque Government what plans it has, what it will do to ensure quality public services and how it intends to protect social services from the risks posed by their commercialization and their definitive openness to the interest of private profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u49	President andrea. Mr Ruiz, first of all, I thank you for your question, and I welcome you to this forum, to this plenary, to this Parliament. And I hope to be able to discuss with you such important matters as the one we are dealing with in this case, the decree of conciliation, something very important in order to consolidate the model of the Basque system of social services that we have implemented in Euskadi. I wondered what the Government wants to put at the heart of politics. And the answer is very simple: the government puts people at the centre of politics. We share with you the pride we have in how we have social policies, although always improveable. But, of course, it is something we have built among all of us over many years. I trust that we can reach agreements, as I say, for the benefit of Basque citizens. And already focusing on the issue, the Government has been working intensively on this decree for a long time, in order to achieve the broadest possible consensus on the regulatory decree of the social concert and the conventions. It is a sensitive, complex matter in which we are seeking consensus with the public administrations responsible for the services, as well as with the entities that may be agreed or agreed upon. Consensus is not easy to achieve, and in this area, if necessary, it is even more complex. But they give us great strength. That is why we intend to reach that majority agreement. There are many meetings and many months of work. The decree is in a very advanced process. And we are working discreetly for its correct development and for it to come to a good end, because what we all want is for that decree to materialize with all the guarantees possible. In our commitment to continue to ensure quality public services, we do so on the basis of collaboration with the contracting entities. Here, for us too the third sector is something important, it is a sign of identity of these social services that we have in Euskadi. But we want to do it from trust and discretion, to give a personalized, comprehensive, efficient and sustainable response.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Ruiz, 20 seconds. He doesn't need a word. Mrs Harper, you've got time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u51	Well, I just want to add to what I have said to you that our intention is not to market the services we are providing, both local and outlaw administrations. Our goal is to protect the model we have. A model that is reflected in the law. And in that law it does come clearly and clearly addressed that, well, concertation will be the ordinary way of providing services. For us it is not commercialization the regulation of the concert regime as an ordinary way for the participation of private initiative in the provision of services. It is also not commercialization that is reserved for cases where it is not possible to resort to conciliation. Nor is commercialization the determination by the Administration of the economic modules corresponding to each benefit. Nor is it commercialisation to take account of links with quality standards linked to the Community model or which are already included in the European framework. There's been a trajectory. Initially it started with subsidies, later they were agreements. We must also work from the point of view of tendering and conciliation. And, therefore, we believe that we are in a new phase. In this new phase we are working very intensively with the third sector. And I believe and hope that we can consolidate the model we have now, with that third sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Collectoral members of the society of Companies and Societys, about the new measures of resisting the President of the young men." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Today, Miss Artola generous, we've come to ask if the government's planning to take a new measure to end with the chronic prechance that young people suffer. For this year, at the 11th time, youths have been established for the first time in a specific manner in the rights of the budget. We've reviewed the budgets of last year and last year, numbers and memories and explanations. And we, at least, have found nothing different in it, but we have found nothing different in the arrangement of 2020's budget, which justifys young people to be just. So I'm here today to plan a game. "Un juego que no de astar, no de es que proliferan en nuestros barios, pueblos de ciudads de las casas de apus los salones de juegos, y que supon tambiens unrigo cere nuros yest y's jóvenes." To-day, the game we all know, the game we've played, the distractions, that is to say, the game of finding differences. Sometimes we must search for seven differences; sometimes we must look for five differences. But I'll make it easier for you today. I, one, one difference, only one, will ask you, Miss Artola generous. In recent budgets, compared to the budgets of this year, young people, I'm asking you to tell me a difference, a difference, a difference, a difference, a new measure.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u55	Look, Mr. Estarrona, I'm gonna make it easy for you, too. I believe that, when we were presenting the draft budgets to the Committee on Finance, we explained to them in detail the most relevant issues of what we had understood to improve the situation of Basque citizens, particularly in the case of young people. By setting an example, we said that we would launch a new digital skills programme aimed at supporting the reintegration of collectives and, in particular, young people, those who have had some complex situation, who do not have such support, and we understand that they need it right now, through technological and digital channels. I would also like to say that during this parliamentary term employment data have been improving, also data on youth employment, and that the measures we have been implementing have therefore yielded these results. It is true that during this parliamentary term the projects that we have been implementing on some occasions have not yielded the results that we considered appropriate and that we have therefore reviewed them. In that evaluation and subsequent review we have been improving those initiatives that I hope will deliver the results we all want. In the year 2020, a draft budget with 275 million in employment programmes will be discussed in this House, with an increase of 7.4%, and that is what we are all involved in. We also present a youth guarantee programme, which will have its second edition, with a project of EUR 6.5 million for the training and recruitment of unemployed young people. In addition, last year we launched and continued with initiatives for the areas of preferential care, with 10 million euros, apart from those that you know perfectly well, such as the one of educational transition to the world of work, the one of youth return and that of entrepreneurship. I sincerely believe that we have initiatives, we have taken them forward, they are having results, and the situation of young people in Euskadi, although it is a complicated and harsh situation, I sincerely believe that it is better than it was ten years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u57	It's true, Mrs. Artolazabal, you've overcome the challenge. I had written here "he did not overcome the challenge", I had written it previously, but he told me a question that is true, that it was not included in the previous budgets. And it is an issue that is at all truncated within the challenges that young people face in this country, because you tell me about giving digital skills to young people and any young person has so much more digital skills than any of us and ourselves, and I can assure you. Therefore, you, by not focusing on truncated issues that directly affect youth, are moving here today that the Government is not intending to make a qualitative leap necessary to respond to the situation of youth in this country, but not intending to change absolutely anything, to take any different action, which was the reason for this question, at least in terms of central and nuclear issues. Not changing anything means continuing, as you said, your failed Gaztelagun emancipation star program, when we are facing the lowest emancipation rate since the initial series in 2007. That's right, you've announced to drum and platter, as a big measure, that the young people registered in Euskadi will receive the gaste-txartela at home. He will say that he will be at his parents' house, because they cannot access a home: do you expect them to thank him for that? To change nothing means to continue with Lehen Aukera, that program of access to a first job with a very high degree of inexecution year after fiscal year and that all it does is to subsidize mileurism and precariousness, and therefore we always ask with these kinds of questions that the salary is set as criterion of 1,200 euros. The program of return Youth Talent is maintained, and of this almost better and we do not speak, because if we attend to the results it is as if it did not exist and the young people are getting tired; we have been saying it for a while, we have been warning it, they filled the streets against climate change, they went out to the street against the sentence of the process so far Mrs. Artolazabal, taking a leap, new measures, that's what they want. They want to have good expectations in their life projects. What they want, after all, is to have lives worth living. Therefore, to claim that, they will go out today to the streets of Bilbo, to say loud and clear that this is not what there is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u58	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Eskerrik asko, Mr Estarrona, for his concern which, as I say, we share, but the reality is also a bit of a catch, if I may say so. In 2018, 10,259 young people had access to a job opportunity; in 2017, it was 6,856, and we have already surpassed that goal that we had to give opportunities to 20,000 young people in Euskadi. Therefore, it is true that they have a complicated situation, the same one that others had when we were young. In the absence of closure this past year, unemployment has declined in the field of youth and has also fallen in a very important way. Since 2008, the number of young people under 30 years of age in Euskadi who are unemployed has fallen from 36,210 to 16,326 in 2019, by 28% less. It is true that we have to continue working, but it is also true that important initiatives are being taken. I believe that, with the tools and updates of the programs we are putting in place, we will be able to improve those situations. The Housing Department is working on housing with the Gaztelagun programme, is reforming, is improving. Because, do you know what's going on, Yellow Star? The one who doesn't do it is not wrong, and the one who doesn't do anything can't improve. Therefore, we are giving opportunities, we are improving and we are evaluating those that do not work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number of points in theme list: "Interregation, made by María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez, the members of the Mount of Maine, Usurmen, Planting, and the Chief of Housing House, about the change of the 1/2006 Law of Water for June 23rd." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, counselor, good morning. Mr. Counsellor, the Budget Bill for the financial year 2020, in its second final provision, amends Law 1/2006 of 23 June on Waters, in relation to the water canon. Through this proposal there is a change in the tax on the canon of water, affecting the delimitation of the taxable fact, the canon – the tax base before it was consumption, now it is the capture –, the tax rate, the moment of degeneration, as well as the creation of assumptions of non-subjection, which we used to contemplate as exemptions, and the reform of the system of exemptions and bonuses. It modifies the taxable fact and the moment of the deposit of the canon. It is now intended that the taxable event is the capture of continental waters for their use or consumption, and that it should occur at the time of capture. Currently, under the current rule, the taxable act constitutes actual or potential consumption of water, and the income of the canon occurs at the time of consumption. In such a way that, with the current law, the saving of water is stimulated: if you make good use and do not waste, you will pay less than if you leave the tap open, logically. In the proposed amendment, the taxable fact is the capture, and it becomes at the time of capture, so that consumption ceases to be the taxable fact: it is the capture, and we will pay it as such, as capture, we consume or not. And, in addition, we will pay for the losses and leaks of the pipes, so that the more losses the network has, the more the government collects, at the cost of the consumer. Of course, consummate or not. Mr Councilman, we asked you about this in the presentation of the budget, and the answer was surprising, especially when the Environment Council is the answerer. He was telling us that it is an initiative that comes, fundamentally, from the Department of Finance, but that you fully share it. Counselor, you are responsible for complying with the Water Act, a law that, among its objectives, has established planning and tax regimes for water and water works. Therefore, you, Mr. Counsellor, are the one who establishes the tax regime on water, do not get under the wing of the Finance Advisor. It says that they seek to bring the taxable event closer to the impact on the environment caused by the use of water and to impact the costs of that impact on consumers. And, managers, what do they do, for grapes? What about the managers, counselor? Because their non-management will be paid by consumers, indeed, and the government will raise more, so that they dismotivate consortia, municipalities, joint ventures, managing bodies, so that they keep the networks in optimal conditions, because, in the end, the costs will be paid by all, at a cost, by consumers. In such a way that this amendment will move from collecting EUR 2 million to collecting EUR 7 million. You said "non-decisive quantity." For a 233% increase in the fee is not foolish, to be paid by consumers, and not with environmental criteria, but at the initiative of the Treasury, pure desire to collect money. Instead of giving priority to responsible consumption, they encourage waste in distribution networks, competition, as I said before, from municipalities, from consortia. The more waste of water for lack of public investment, the greater the collection, right, counselor? You told us that this change is demanding for consortia and municipalities, and can you explain to me where it is demanding for consortia? Of the changes you have proposed, by articles, at what point is it demanding for the municipalities, for the consortia, for the communities? Meters captured, meters that impact consumers. What is the problem for municipalities and consortia? Where is the obligation to keep the network in optimal conditions? Nowhere. In what part of the modification is that requirement, which you say, to maintain the network? For the People's Group here there is merely a collectory interest, above and beyond any environmental interest, and directly passed on to consumers. Canon that will rise, in the interest of the government. And what it says today is 7 million, in a few years it will be 20, 30, 50, whatever they want to go up, what they think is appropriate, for needs. How is it to do works and to pay for the mismanagement of the municipalities, of the commons, of the consortia, for whatever is needed, right? It's just that you have to pay for the works at the cost of water. But we're consummating it or not. And, therefore, counselor, what I want to ask is: what is your purpose really with this amendment?Do you believe that this amendment meets the objectives of the law?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u62	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u63	Good morning, Madam President. Mrs López de Ocariz, I answer your question: the government's purpose in amending, through the draft budgets for 2020, some aspects of the Water Act of 2006, relating to the canon, is clearly reflected in the explanatory memorandum that you certainly know. This change is the result of a joint reflection, carried out by the Directorate of Tax Administration, i.e. the Department of Finance, and the Basque Agency for Water-URA, on how to improve the compliance and effectiveness of the water canon, when it has reached ten years since its entry into force on 1 January 2009. The reasons for the proposed changes are, on the one hand, to make progress in complying with the principle of cost recovery for water-related services. As you know, the basic standard for the protection of water resources is the EU Water Framework Directive, which sets out the objectives for the preservation of water resources and imposes the conditions for sustainable use. One of its pillars is the principle of cost recovery for services, as set out in Article 9 thereof. In other words, the obligation of administrations to incorporate in supply tariffs the real value of what costs the entire water cycle, from being captured until it is returned to the pre-cleaning channels, including environmental costs. Because an adequate pricing policy is considered to be a key factor in promoting efficient and responsible use of this natural resource. Thus, with the proposed amendment, the fact that the impact on the environment is impermissible is approaching. Secondly, to simplify administrative procedures in applying and collecting the canon, which are now quite complex, and to improve tax management in a step-by-step. And, in addition, to promote the reuse of water, an aspect which was not sufficiently weighted so far and which is essential in order to reduce consumption, in particular in the sectors of industry, agriculture and livestock. The fact is that, with the current regulation of the canon, not all uses of water contribute to recover the costs of damage or adverse effects on the aquatic environment. For example, domestic uses are not taxed. The Water Act did include domestic consumption of more than 130 litres per person per day in the canon, but the decree that developed it introduced the temporary exemption from the tax on domestic consumption. The Act also applied the fee to consumption of agricultural uses. However, following the parliamentary request made on 18 November 2009, a moratorium was established on the application of the tax on these uses. In this way, domestic uses, agricultural uses or uncontrolled losses and leakages from the collection and supply networks are not currently subject to the canon, because the taxable fact is the actual or potential consumption, simplifying, the volume of water that comes out of the tap. This means that only 30,5 % of real consumption in Euskadi is taxed by the water charge, which only affects commercial and industrial uses, accounting for 26,7 %, and municipal, with 3,8 %. On the other hand, these uses, which are subject to taxation, enjoy a series of bonuses that reduce the percentage of consumption actually taxed by the water canon from 30,5 % to 14,6 %. The proposed regulatory amendment, which includes a new definition of the taxable act and the reduction of exemptions and bonuses, aims to advance the achievement of the objectives of Law 1/2006, which establishes, inter alia, the water fee. And this through the increase in the scope of the tax. This will lead to progress in complying with the principle of recovery of environmental costs. The changes proposed in the chapter on the canon do not imply a substantial modification of a law that is much broader. The purpose of the levy is to promote a more responsible, efficient and sustainable use of water, so that its collection should be allocated by URA, as established by law itself, to the protection, restoration and improvement of the aquatic environment and to collaborate with the competent administrations in the achievement of efficient supply and sanitation services. To fix that the taxable fact will be the capture of water for its use, and not the actual consumption, as so far, we do not believe that it would entail a substantial alteration of the law or of the canon itself. The same applies to the exclusion of water cannon that is reused in industrial or other uses and the fixing of the type of levy or other details. These are technical amendments, fully in line with the environmental philosophy inspired by the Water Act and the canon itself. In addition, these changes have been proposed following consultation and participation of the various actors involved, namely the Gipuzkoako Urak, Añarbeko Urak, AMVISA, Txingudiko Zerbitzuak and Bilbao Bizkaia Ur Partzuergoa consortia, which concentrate a large majority of the users of the Euskadi water network. Some consortia that, in turn, have been demanding simpler canon management, as it will be from now on. That these changes could have been addressed by amending the Water Act? Yeah, it could have been done. But you and I know what that means in time, to address the retouchings that, I insist, have a technical character. We believe that the draft budget law is a perfectly adequate way of dealing with it and that it guarantees the sufficient degree of information, contrast and political debate about its suitability. On the other hand, the question of the canon must be placed in its just dimensions. At the moment, taxing, as I said, only 14.8% of real water consumption, 2 million euros are entered with it. With the proposed changes, the fee would charge 100 % of the volume of water collected for use or consumption, although the actual percentage is reduced to 85,3 %, because the volume used on farms and livestock would have a 90 % bonus. In other words, the primary sector will only pay the fee for 10% of the amount collected. As you see, Mrs López de Ocariz, you have been sensitive to a sector that, both our department and the government as a whole, we always have very much in mind. On the other hand, and thinking of all the passive subjects of the canon, it was intended to mitigate the impact that the application of the current six cents tax rate per cubic metre would have on a volume of water that would multiply by six the amount currently taxed. And so the reduction of the current rate to half is proposed: three cents per cubic metre. So the estimated collection of the new fee is set at €7 million per year. It represents a striking increase over the current amount, it is true, but it is a modest amount for the intended purpose, which is to compensate for the environmental deterioration that we cause with the capture and use of water, and to promote efficient and responsible consumption. In addition, in order to facilitate the necessary adjustments in the management by the supplying entities, it is proposed that the changes indicated should enter into force on 1 January 2021. There is, therefore, ample scope for these changes to be put into effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u64	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u65	Counselor, a modification of these characteristics cannot be made by the back door. Yesterday we were discussing a bill that brought your group along with the Basque nationalists to amend two articles of the law, three, because two are similar. A motion for a law, not by the back door, counselor. What reports support this amendment? None. Look, yesterday we also saw a response from the Government to a bill from Bildu, which said it was not accepted, had the negative report from the Government, because it did not provide reports. Hey, you guys have criteria depending on what? Here you have a collection effort that is clearly manifest, and I think you said it very well: that you fully agree and that it is the Treasury that directs this. And there's no more. So there is no socio-economic report, there is no environmental report on compliance with the Water Directive, there is no report from the Water Council of the Basque Country, which must be. There is no report from the Basque Water Agency, which must be. It has no binding report from the user assembly. He says he's spoken to three consortia, ruined. Three consortia that are ruined. It has no binding report from the users' assembly on the modification of the canon, as it corresponds to it according to article 12 of the Waters Act. This amendment violates the general principles of the law, Mr. Counsellor. Among other things, it says: "Economy and comprehensive planning of water, sustainability of water resources and rational use of water". You, in this modification, that the water is lost by the pipes matter very little; we will pay among all, to cleavage. They don't care at all. Another of the general principles: "Coordination, inter-administrative cooperation, transparency". Counselor, transparency. This has not led to the user assembly, transparency. "Participation of users in the development and implementation of water policy". Well, no. He says he's spoken to three consortia, of course. "Effective provision of public supply, sanitation and purification services, with the aim of universal supply", not universal collection, as you propose. Another basic principle: "solidarity, responsibility and payment of the costs produced in the management and use of water by those who use it", not by those who waste it. Those of us who use water don't have to pay for the managers' waste. And that here is going to happen with this modification, it is going to happen, because we pay for the capture; what happens next to you matters very little. And he tells me they're environmental principles. Hey, I want that report. I want the report to tell me that environmentally that's the case. Which is less than a report, because we're talking here and I have to believe it. I'm surprised by a socialist asking me for faith. What you want me to tell you, I'm surprised and very much. No, Mr. Counselor, this has to be backed up by reports. Transparency, where is the transparency of this matter? Who have you talked to? With the board of directors? With the city halls? No, no, With whom? With three consortia? Man, Mr. Counselor. And he says he wants to move forward in cost recovery, of course they want to move forward: from raising 2 million to collecting 7. And, that, year after year, it's going to take us 50 million revenue in a very short time. And here paying for the consumer's cleavage. Then they will come, as socialists do, because you first steal your wallet and then they say, "No, man, I'm going to give you back a little bit, I'm going to make an aid plan for those weaker economies, so that they don't pay, so that I can deduct some costs." So, they steal my entire wallet and then they get 80%, and the rest they share it as you want, and that's the social part of the Socialist Party. With other people's money they do the social work. Look, capture is a completely modification, changing the taxable fact is a substantial modification of the canon, is that it is the important part. This law had two parts, the creation of the Water and Canon Agency, and it tells me that it is not a substantial change. Well, we understand you do. Tell me about the agricultural sector...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Łódź de Ocariz. Thank you. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u67	Mrs López de Ocariz, we can certainly talk long and hard about this issue, but I think I have explained to you in a reasoned and consistent way the reasons why we have decided to address the changes proposed with the application of the water canon. Amendments which, I would insist, are not of a substantial nature. We are talking about the Water Law, which is much more than the canon, and it also goes in line with the spirit of the Water Law itself in which the canon was established. And I have also explained the reasons why we have considered that the wording of the draft budget law is a perfectly valid formula, and perhaps more suitable to this day than to initiate a specific legislative amendment at this time, because, by that way, it is certain that the proposed technical changes could not be addressed in what remains of the legislature and, most likely, not in the first year of the next legislature. I believe, therefore, that perhaps we are blurring the sense of the purpose of the canon. Its purpose is not collectory, Mrs López de Ocariz – otherwise we would not have such low yields, two years today – but restorative and environmental. It is the rate charged by consortia and other agents that has to cover the actual cost of the water consumed. The fee goes a little further and emphasizes the environmental costs associated with uses, trying to encourage efficient and sustainable use. You say we don't care about leaks. It's just... And with the current regulation, do leaks matter? Hey, if they don't get paid, if they're not subject to the canon. It doesn't matter how many leaks there are. Now they are going to pay, and now, therefore, there will have to be an interest on the part of the managing bodies to control leaks, because they are going to pay water canon. When you don't pay, there's no interest in repairing leaks, why? Among other things, because you don't pay the canon. Now he's gonna pay. Do not tell me that it does not encourage rational use and consumption, because it is precisely the opposite. Their interpretation has no logic whatsoever. And this is also reason to change the taxable fact, going from what was the actual consumption of water coming out of the tap or pipes, which did not take into account the losses or leaks, to the volume of water captured at source, because it is that amount drawn, arrive or not come to be consumed finally, which accurately reflects the environmental impact of the deduction of this natural resource and its return to the medium once used. For the same reason, it has also been decided to abolish the exemptions that exist in the application of the levy on certain uses, with the exception of water reused for industry or for electricity generation, and to modify, as I said earlier, the levy for agricultural and livestock uses in order not to impair the viability of primary sector holdings. The economic impact is quite moderate. We are talking about a planned collection of EUR 7 million, although it involves tripling the current collection, which is ridiculous, for the whole of Euskadi. And I insist, this is not a tax or economic debate, even if the changes in the canon go into a budget law; it is an environmental debate. It is also bound in some way by the European legislation on which the Water Act is based. And being as we are, at least in theory, increasingly aware of the deterioration of ecosystems by human action and the threat posed by climate change to vital natural resources, it makes no sense for us to spare measures that contribute to their preservation. And this, in its modesty, is one of them. In your modesty, Mrs. López de Ocariz. We are talking about moving from a collection of 2 million in the whole of Euskadi to 7 million, broadening the tax base and with the modifications that are introduced here. We are talking about that the canon is three cents of euro per cubic meter of water. 10,000 liters of water captured. Three cents, five pesetas from the old ones, we're fifth. We're talking about an estimated $5 million increase in collection. We are talking about that if we shared these 5 million among the inhabitants of Euskadi today, it would amount to 2.40 euros per inhabitant, per person per year, that is, 0.20 cents per inhabitant per month in Euskadi. It seems to you a terrible, insurmountable cost on the part of the taxpayers, of the families who will ultimately, logically, be the ones who end up paying in their receipt the canon of water. These absolutely insurmountable amounts I'm telling you. And in what is the use...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u68	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 12th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, the Congressmen of the Casanova Alonso Presidency teams of the Environmental Planets, and Housing Department, the Government of Madrid about the organisation of the Great Courts of Institutions." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u69	Yes, thank you. Good morning, everyone. You remember that there is a situation often repeated in many movies of scientific fiction or fear. The good guys spend the whole picture trying to catch the bad guy. The bad guy's a monster, he's an alien or a killer robot. And in the movie, it's like the enemy's already dead. But when he looks dead, he comes back all of a sudden and opens his eye when Godzilla appeared to be dead. And often, at the end of the film, when the monster has been permanently killed and the letters appear, it is seen that he has placed an egg and we see Godzilla's egg, or well, continaved to be contineed. Something similar has happened to us in the law of the Great Mercade. So many turns, so many efforts, so many interviews, after so many agreements, we seemed to have settled the matter once and for all, as Godzilla seems to have put an egg into it. The mayor of the sandrabi placed an egg in the Knight, but the PSOE government put another egg in it when he threatened to commit the appeal on the committee. We have learned in September that the Government of Madrid displayed its doubts about the constitutionality of this law. And this is the starting point of a very dangerous road. We'll talk about it later. But seeing that PSOE, supported by PSOE and made a law from PSOE's department, threatened to present an appeal to Madrid on the table, it seems to me that PSOE ought to say something. I'm starting with Scary and science fiction films, and I'm gonna finish this first intervention with a movie that would cry out: Kramer contra Kramer PSOE contra PSOE
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u70	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Casanova, there's no Kramer here against Kramer PSOE against PSOE. And what I have to say is that, logically, from the Government, we will use all the springs in our hands to convince the Government of Spain that the Law on the Territorial Planning of Large Commercial Establishments, approved by this Parliament, strictly meets the powers of the Autonomous Community, in order to ensure that the Government of Spain does not appeal to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u72	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u73	Well, Mr. Arriola, I'm glad to hear that answer. Because sometimes here you bring questions to hear what you don't want to hear and criticize having heard what you don't want to hear. What I wanted to hear from his mouth was precisely that, that the government is going to do everything in its power to avoid this interference, this intrusion, this attack – in my view – on the political autonomy of this Parliament and also on the majority decision of Basque society, because this is a law with a very broad consensus. This was a law that was legally shielded. From this rostrum, at some point – as I understand it in a somewhat frivolous way – it has been criticized that certain deadlines have been speeded up in its parliamentary process. It was done quickly in its parliamentary processing phase, but it has a lot of political, social and legal work behind it. This law was a law that was absolutely armored, but it happened a little as well as Achilles. She had a weak spot; she was armored against what she was armored. It was armored, on the basis of the most extensive case law and the advice of the best experts in this field, against an attack on behalf of the defence of competition, on behalf of the European Services Directive, on behalf of the legal elements that have served at other times to attack such laws. That's what she was armored for. For what wasn't armored, it was for a back attack, like Achilles's heel. I wasn't armored for that. I therefore ask you to make every effort to convince the central Government of the constitutionality of this law. By the way, it reminds me a little of my partner Jasone's intervention this morning. I mean, if we can't even regulate the malls, like we go into issues that have to do with identity, sovereignty, international relations... Nor do the shopping centers want to keep us regular from Madrid within the framework of our competences? With a perfectly armored law, with a law that has an absolute consensus of this Parliament; on that, too, we have to be beaten. I ask you and I demand that you comply with what you have said, that you get that law withdrawn, because, if not, we will see each other in the debate on a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u74	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Thank you. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u75	Mr. Casanova, let's put things in place. Of course, it's not nice to have a law appealed to you, and more so when you think it's rightful. But it happens, both by the administration of the State against rules of the Autonomous Community and the other way around. Let's not forget. This does not mean that one questions self-government, nor that the other questions the national sovereignty and the ability of the Spanish Government to do what is in its hands. This is part of the democratic game, Mr Casanova. It's part of the democratic game, I know you're new to this, just like not. But it's part of this. Nor is it the first time that a notice of appeal finally fails to reach the Constitutional Court because one of the parties convinces the other that their objections are not justified. What I guarantee you is that in the remaining months of negotiation, until March, more or less, from the Government, we will make every effort to try to convince the bilateral commission and to ensure that the announced appeal does not come to light. We already know that you have taken this law very personally, and I can understand your frustration at the possibility that it may be resorted to. But also, perhaps, you now understand why we insist so much, from our department, that the rule replacing the cancelled territorial plan of commercial equipment should be made with full legal guarantees and without voluntarism. In other words, the restrictions on the establishment or expansion of large shopping centres outside urban areas could not be justified for economic or commercial reasons, something expressly prohibited by European legislation, but because of the environmental, land management, mobility and landscape problems, all of which fall within the competence of the Autonomous Community. I would like to remind you that the first intention of your group, but also of Elkarrekin Podemos and of the People's Party, was to address this matter by amending the Commercial Activity Act, which would have entailed the same error that led to the judicial annulment of the previous rule, that is, to expressly declare that the reason for the regulation was to protect the small local trade from large areas and to bring the law, then yes or yes, to a remedy with assured adverse result. Fortunately, not without force, they ended up accepting our considerations and it was possible to unanimously adopt the Law on Territorial Planning of Large Commercial Establishments, a rule that we consider to be well-founded and that, I reiterate, we will defend with all rigour and conviction in negotiations with the central government to avoid recourse. And if we do not convince, we will also defend it in the Constitutional Court, in its case, although I hope it will not, but if so, it will.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u76	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Queen Martiniz together by the lawmate of the Podemos to the head of the Medical Department, to arrange the changes which have been arranged in the University of Basur-Burtu-Bubao, La Merced." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u77	Bai, eskerrik asko. Counsellor, what are your plans for the La Merced health centre in the San Francisco neighborhood of Bilbao?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u78	Eskerrik asko, Martinez Zatón. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u79	Andrea president, legebiltzarkideok. Martínez jauna, I appreciate your interest and your question, because I would like to make it clear that the reorganization of services in the health centre of La Merced is framed in the creation of a unique health area along with the center of Miribilla. In no case will it entail a loss or impairment in the quality of care to the neighbors and neighbors of the area. Having the center of Miribilla allows to resize the resources available in large facilities for professionals and also for the population of the area. Thus, the Bilbao-Basurto OSI will undertake the fusion of the basic primary care units of Miribilla and La Merced, constituting, as I have already mentioned on some occasion, a single unit with the Miribilla health centre. This would be the head centre at eight to eight hours, and the health centre would be La Merced, peripheral, at eight to three hours. But this is not about any experiments. This same model, structure has already been deployed and is being carried out in other areas, such as the unity that constitutes Basurto with Altamira or the unity of Deusto with Arangoiti. We can say, from our experience, that this model ensures better conditions, both of spaces and of organization of care services, giving care from eight to eight more accessible and close in the whole of what a health area needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u81	Mrs Murga, we are concerned about the situation of primary care, as you well know, not only for this case of La Merced. By the way, what you said about the experiment was not our words. Primary care is a backbone of the health system, but it is a backbone that should be rooted with the health community, with workers and also with neighbours and neighbors. You know better than I the personnel problems that are dragged into primary care and right now in Euskadi we have service closures in the CAP of the Old Helmet of Bilbao, in the CAP of Txurdinaga in Bilbao, in the CAP of San Martín in Gasteiz, and also service cuts in the center of La Merced, which is what we are dealing with, and in the CAP of Solokoetxe. It is a situation that affects workers in Osakidetza, but also the citizenry that sees its right to a public health of closeness, quality and integral. It affects workers, because in the health centre of La Merced they received a notification for a meeting on 9 September to hold a meeting on 9 September, there, for the staff of the centre, and there they were announced that unification by decree with Miribilla. There were reasons for space, for organization, for Miribilla's planning for change. Can the current centre of La Merced be improved or changed? Did you value yourself? He knows, moreover, or should know, that there is no public transport between the two neighborhoods, between San Francisco and Miribilla, and that the distance is not very great, but that the slopes are more than pronounced and seems to be a very serious problem for the number of elderly people living in the neighborhood, for people who need wheelchairs, or also for people who need to go to the health center with carts of boys or girls, because it is one of the unifications that will be made in Miribilla, the mother and child service. Then, the deadlines for the transfer. First it was month and a half, then it was December, then it was that after Christmas, because you said that the Bilbao-Basurto OSI is the one that decided this, but it seems to me a somewhat improvised decision. We wonder if these changes are necessary, because we do not know. What we do know is that the staff of the health centre have not participated in this decision; neither have they participated in this decision, nor have they been informed, the San Francisco neighborhood, the citizens who use this service, nor the social health commission, nor the clinical care council. It has been – I say it again – a unilateral decision, and all the information we have makes us think that improvised, of the Bilbao-Basurto OSI. From Elkarrekin We can defend community health, more if it fits in neighborhoods like San Francisco, a working-class neighborhood, a neighborhood with character, a neighborhood with identity, with plural identities, but also a neighborhood with high rates of social exclusion that are urgent to solve, if we believe that no one has to stay behind. Mrs. Murga, do you know that in San Francisco life expectancy is more than two years lower than in the Deusto neighborhood, or five years lower than in the Indautxu neighborhood? And health, health, the right to health is basic to eliminate this type of discrimination. San Francisco requires more social and public investments, the most important institutions that believe in the equality of all people, and where they come from, and where they don't care where they live. And therefore the last thing he needs is to reduce his services to the medical centre. Consider this decision, Mrs Murga. They're on time. Strengthen social and health care in San Francisco. And above all, do so in coordination, in communication, in dialogue, in debate with the workers of health centres and with the neighbours and neighbours of the neighbourhoods and villages of Euskadi. That's the neighborhood, the improvement of everyone's services, but with everyone's participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u82	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u83	Mr Martínez, we are also concerned about primary care, we are also concerned about the inequalities that exist and we know and we are also taking steps from the point of view of community health to address these inequalities. But what I want to make clear is that at no time are these changes going to reduce the attention of people living in these neighborhoods. Don't have any doubts. I repeat: it will not affect your attention. It is a reorganization, because the health center of La Merced has no possibility of expansion and, so far, for many of these services he went to Miribilla, to carry out care, sometimes, with the matron for some activities and, at other times, for a different care. And for this reason, maternal and child care will be unified in an area. On the other hand, with these changes, Osarides wants to improve his service. As you know, the Miribilla health centre is a newly created centre, 2015, which has extensive facilities that can accommodate without any problem an increase in the population planned for these areas and also the reorganization of professionals. As an example, it has facilities for postpartum care that were already attended by women in the La Merced area, and there was already a need to share consultations with professionals. This had to be done in La Merced, and difficulties appeared when it came to giving proper attention. That was the reason. For this reason, a single maternal and child unit has been established at the Miribilla health centre to care for both populations. I remind you that, prior to this change, the pediatric population of La Merced had already been served, at three to eight in the afternoon, in the center of Miribilla, because of this impossibility, which has always been, that the entire population could be served in La Merced.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, Cristina Macazaga Sáenz, together with the members of the Podemos to the head of the health department, the investigation of the public offer in Neurogery." Mrs Macazaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u85	Bai. Mila esker, andrea president. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, chief of Murga department. Exactly one month ago, last October 29, we were announced in this Parliament, in committee, that the Official Gazette of the Basque Country would publish the following day, on Wednesday, October 30, the precautionary suspension of the 11 medical oppositions of 2018 investigated by the judge of Vitoria, Ana Zulueta, after the Prosecutor's Office found evidence of irregularities and leaks. He said that he would communicate it to the court and that the persons involved and affected by this measure would be informed through a newsletter. However, both sides learned earlier from the press, something which has been reiterated this year and a half and which reflects the management that their department has developed in the so-called doped OPEs. In May, Elkarrekin We can already require this measure from Osakidetza. For this reason, we are presenting a joint initiative, together with EH Bildu, in the Health Commission, to suspend the OPE resolution process of hospital specialists until the courts have clarified it and issued a court ruling. That non-law proposal did not go forward. It did not go forward because it did not have sufficient support, and it was criticized by the groups supporting its Government, which then stated that it was an inadequate measure. "We have to complete the processes as soon as possible, we have to finish them," said Mr Orbegozo on all the procedures of the OPE, except the three in which it had already been decided to repeat the examinations in full or in part. And he spoke of opportunism In three of these categories, anesthesia, angiology and digestive, the authors of the theoretical exams are imputed. The other eight categories also temporarily suspended are cardiology, trauma, plastic surgery, urology, intensive medicine, emergencies, microbiology and cardiovascular surgery. The Director-General of Osakidetza noted that this decision had been taken because of the pre-eminence of criminal jurisdiction, which obliged the suspension of the remaining administrative proceedings, and indicated that it could not be done in February because there were no judicial proceedings and they did not know the number of categories being investigated. And in May? And in June, July, August, September? Actually, we're used to being late. Unions such as ESK and LAB, who are involved in the cause, raise up to 19 specialties under suspicion. In these eight additional Osakidetza saw no reason to take action and the allocation of places was carried out in a normal manner. Last Friday, 15 November, ESK filed a request for an extension of the investigation before the Vitoria-Gasteiz 2 Court, which the court has been developing concerning the complaint of the fraud of the OPE of Osakidetza. 2016-2017. This request for extension is the result of the analysis of various documents to which ESK has had access. Therefore, they requested before the court that the investigation be extended to two new specialties: one, already identified as suspect by the Prosecutor's Office, neurosurgery; and another, with new clues, neurophysiology, attaching the necessary evidence. Neurosurgery was one of the categories identified by the Office of the Prosecutor. As Mr Orbegozo said, so much has been done to close the process as soon as possible, they are now faced with an investigated specialty whose places are awarded. And the problem gets worse...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Macazaga. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours. Prime Medical Departments As we have already announced in this House, Osakidetza has suspended 11 selective proceedings, in respect of which Judgement No. 2's order has opened prior proceedings. This suspension, as you have also mentioned, is precautionary. So it is possible to lift it, if the decisions of the criminal court so justified, as might be the case that the proceedings were finally terminated or filed. This precautionary suspension has been carried out in order to guarantee the rights of the opponents and to ensure that no administrative action can affect the development of the judicial investigation, in order to preserve legal certainty. From there, this is what I want to make clear: we have not received any further orders or requests from the court, nor from any other category, nor from any extension of the request for information or documentation. And, therefore, our responsibility is: on the one hand, to cooperate with justice; and, on the other, to ensure that the opponents who have presented themselves to this OPE, taking the necessary measures with rigour and trying to safeguard legal certainty. I remind you that the March 6 Car of Judgement No. 2 agreed to open these proceedings in the 11 categories included by the Prosecutor's Office. And this court order is the 11 selective proceedings suspended on a precautionary basis. And I remind this House that opponents of the categories that are not included in the cars and in the court also have rights and have the right to have their proceedings resolved. In short, the category of neurosurgery is not included among the categories included in the court's decision. Therefore, Osakidetza does not suspend it cautiously. During all these months, we have demonstrated our willingness to respond to what is requested of us by the Court, and to have legal responsibility, with caution and in collaboration with the Prosecutor's Office and the court. Also with the Ararteko, with this Parliament and, of course, as I have mentioned, with justice. In the meantime, we will continue to work towards resolving the pending categories of the 2016-2017 OPE that are not included in the cars, because it is, among other things, necessary to be able to prepare and implement the next selective process, which is the OPE 2018-2019. This is the way we have to give stability and quality employment to the professionals in Osakidetza. We'll continue to work in answer to the demands of the court, and also for the rights of the positors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The fifteenth point on the subject list was: "To ask, the members of Laura Garrido Körre, a member of the Basque Group, made to the head physician of the Medical Department of the House of Zambrana." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. Well, we asked about another health center. Madam Counsellor, as you well know, the place that housed the Zambrana health centre presents structural problems, which seems to have increased over the first half of last year. Finally, care is transferred to another location at the health centre in Zambrana. At first they went to Berantevilla, and then, finally, they moved to another place in the municipality of Zambrana itself. As you also know, the City Council itself decides to initiate the file of free assignment of use of a plot of municipal ownership for the construction of a new health center. And what we want to know is, Madam Counsellor, since the responsibility for health lies with the Basque Government, if that is the opinion of the Basque Government, the department you run and Osakidetza to provide a solution to health care in this important area of Álava.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u89	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In answer, Mrs. Murga, your word is yours. Prime Medical Departments The Department of Health and Osakidetza spend 365 days of the year, 24 hours a day, offering all Basques and Basques quality health care. And to do that, we are working to improve primary care in all the municipalities of Euskadi. And of course, also in Zambrana. As we both know, and he mentioned, this summer, because of circumstances outside Osakidetza related to structural problems of the building, it was necessary to close this office in Zambrana, because they already affected the safety of the professionals and the citizenship that was coming. Thus, during this closure the neighbors and neighbors in Berantevilla were cared for. On 9 September, the City Council of Zambrana empowered an alternative in the municipal library to avoid these transfers. In the meantime, to repair the structure of the building where the office was located, the Board of Directors (sic For its part, it is true that the City Council of Zambrana has transferred to us its interest in assigning to Osakidetza a plot for the construction of a new office, but, evaluated the two alternatives, Osakidetza has opted for the structural repair of the current building in which the office is located and take advantage of the works to adapt the spaces and improve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. Garrido andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u91	andreak: Board of Directors As you know, health care and the provision of health care in primary care is a competence of the Basque Government. Indeed, there is an aid that will be granted by the parliament through the Foral Plan of Works and Services. That seems to be the intention. But the question is very specific, Counsellor: do you intend to build a new health centre to solve the problem of health care in this area? Yes or no? That's the question. You already have at your disposal a place ceded by the City Hall. Are you willing, as you have done in other areas of Alava – by the way, I don't know if because they are governed by mayors of the Nationalist Party – where health centers have been built, to give coverage to the precise health care in this area and to build a new health center? You know very well that the problems of this place are not punctual problems, that is, they are not problems that have to do with short-term aspects, but rather with important aspects that have to do with accessibility to the building itself, which is accessed through a ramp, with which spaces are inadequate, we are talking about narrow corridors in which patients have difficulty moving when they come to the health center, they are also inadequate spaces for medical staff to be located, bathrooms not adapted to people with reduced mobility problems. Do you, personally, and as head of the Department of Health, believe that all these problems that this site presents are going to be solved with 80,000 euros or that we are talking about a much larger problem and, therefore, that requires a larger solution? The question is very specific, Madam Counsellor. Seeing that it will hardly be possible to solve all the problems of the place to which we are referring, is it the intention of the Basque Government and the department you preside over, as you have done in other areas of Álava, to build a health centre, seeing that the City Council has shown its willingness by giving up a place for free? Yes or no, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u92	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Murga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u93	Garrido andrea, I think I've previously answered that the decision was to act on the existing building, and not build a new one. That was the answer, apart from history. I appreciate your correction on the Zambran Administrative Board, which is in favour of rehabilitating the building in which this office is currently located. And Osakidetza too. In addition, the mayor of the town has been in compliance with this decision. And I can assure you that the Investment Plan is made public, you will know it, and if at some point the construction of a new building is decided, it will be included in a budget item and will be done. But right now the game we have is this and it's for a building enablement where aspects such as accessibility are going to be modified. In Osakidetza we have standards that we meet and that we also maintain in the structural repairs of the buildings. Therefore, the renovation works will soon be started in the Zambrana office with the help of the Álava Foral Diputación. I would also like to point out that aspects such as accessibility will fully follow the standards that we now have in the new buildings. So, Mrs Garrido, it's clear what our goal and our work is every day, in Zambrana and in all the Basque villages. Membership will continue and continue to provide a quality service for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Murga. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Marcia del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popula, made for Turism, commerce, and the chief physician of the consuls, with the negative facts of the turb." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u95	women: Looking at the data for July, August and September, we can see that this trend remains the same. Increases in tourists: in Gipuzkoa, 7.6; in Bizkaia, 7.2; and in Álava a decrease of 3%. If we look at the occupancy of hotel spaces, the trend is very similar: Gipuzkoa, an increase of 4.4; Bizkaia, 3.6; Álava, 5.2. If we go to October, for example, the last data we have, the entrance of tourists, since in Bizkaia is 2.9, in Gipuzkoa is 11.2 and in Álava there is a decrease of 1.2. This trend, counselor, worries us and we are sure that you too. As I was telling you, the last few months of this year, the tourism data in Álava are negative, a trend that has not returned in the summer, seems to be chronicling. If we look at the whole of the Basque Country, the data is not bad, because Gipuzkoa pulls very well, but, on the contrary, Álava falls systematically. Madam Councilwoman, what assessment does you make of these data of continued decline in the last few months of tourism in Álava? Have you evaluated what factors may be affecting this data? You know that Vitoria is the Basque capital to which less organized visits arrive from Basquetour, the Fam Trip and the Press Trip. How can this influence the fact that it is the only capital where tourism percentages have been falling for more than six months, compared to the climbs of Bilbao and Donostia?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u96	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u97	Thank you, President. Yes, Mrs López de Ocariz, you did mention some specific data. It will also allow me to present the results we have achieved from the department's statistical body. First of all, he wanted to convey that the data do not yet mark a settled trend, as fluctuations have occurred in the past and also recovery of flows and overnight stays. Indeed, from January to April of this year, the three territories have experienced a trend very similar to that of 2018. We have therefore analysed the period between May and October. During this period there is a negative growth in Álava, which occurs mainly in hotels. Agrotourisms increase the number of travellers by 19%, which is higher than the Euskadi average. The decrease is given in Rioja Alavesa, which already started this trend slightly in 2017 and, to a lesser extent, in Vitoria, where it is basically given from April 2019. The rest of Alava grows percentually, it is not an excessively significant growth, but it has risen. For markets, it should also be noted that the representation of tourism resident in Álava is much greater than in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. It represents 70%, compared to Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, where it is 50%. Then, the variations in the Spanish market obviously affect him much more. And the issuing markets, the main ones, which are Madrid, Catalonia and Andalusia, it is true that, comparatively, they have decreased their total number of trips...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u98	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u99	..., although they have increased it in the whole of the Autonomous Community. And France, which is one of our main foreign markets, has fallen by 4% in Euskadi, and that has also led to a drag on the territory. However, if we look at the percentage of occupation and the average stay, these ratios have grown and, in addition, follow the upward trend. What is also a positive fact for us, since even though we have been recording fewer travellers since May, it is true that the average stay and overnight stay ratios and the percentage of occupancy are increasing. For us the objective of growth is not an objective in itself, but to continue to grow also in quality, in fidelity and in the distribution of the territory. And also, of course, continue to increase the average stay. Thank you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u101	Madam Counsellor, indeed, those data indicate that and, in addition, there are other circumstances that I believe need to be assessed. Not if you have assessed what is causing that loss of tourism, and I think that you have to evaluate it, you have the data and I would like you to tell us. Because you haven't answered any of the questions I asked you. He repeated to me again the data I gave him. And, Commissioner, I would like to say that we are concerned about this trend, concerned that this trend is chronicled at a critical time, in a context of economic slowdown. The year 2020 will reflect some market uncertainties – as tourism experts say – and significant changes in the competitive environment and feeling citizen about tourism. That affects us so much. And, moreover, in Vitoria it coincides another basic element that is the decay of trade. It's trembling the closing of shops. You have the data too. Therefore, I believe that with the decline of tourists, coupled with the situation of trade, Vitoria languishes in these four years in a barbaric way, the situation is tremendous. And, therefore, counselor, I think you have to make a specific analysis of what is going on. Here's something going on, and I think all administrations should be worried. We're worried. And I believe that this situation forces us to be very attentive and requires close governance, highlighting the sector, enhancing its image, combining tourism development strategies with other potentialities that we have, respecting the environment, well-being, quality of employment, improving and incorporating digitalisation into all links in the tourism chain: ultimately, generating differentiated tourism competitiveness. Counsellor, Vitoria and Álava need a specific plan to revitalize trade and to enhance those tourist factors we have, and many, and are covered. I believe that all the administrations, the legislature, the municipalities and the government, have to work on this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Łódź de Ocariz. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours. Chiefs of Tourism, Commsimus and Commerce Indeed, we cannot yet talk, as I said before, about a settled trend. It is still early, we will continue to analyze the data: the origin of the data, the causes of the data, indeed, and also the perceptions of the sector. As I was saying, it is true that we are experiencing a decrease in travellers, but, on the contrary, the average stay and the degree of occupation are increasing. With which, we have to analyze well what is going on. Because, today, it is true that this decrease is occurring, mainly in hotels, in the Rioja Alavesa, also by the drag of the descent of the foreign tourist. But those travelers are also staying longer. We will continue to work and promote all the actions that we have directed to Vitoria and Álava, as you know, all the actions related to Green Capital, with the Ecotourism Forum and all those actions such as, for example, that we have recently presented, of the touring campaign. The White City Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that the members of the Ubeka Ubera and EH Union members of the Cultural and the Chief of Policy Language are threatening threats against the application of the Basque Act." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u104	Good morning, Mr. Zupiria. It's no good in politics. You can't play with Basque rights. The right of language cannot be used for the oppression of the people, either of ours or of anyone else. I mean, you know, you know, you can't coach citizens, design them, you can't oppress them, because of their origin, the genre, the economic level... for even in language they cannot be oppressed. PPri, when he sees an initiative on the eucalyptic, is increased by his unsubstantial mind, his youthful and imperial character appears to him. And although he says that the Basque Sea is a treasure, he begins to attack, without any legal foundation, without a head, if they have any. Between PPen and Vox, there seems to be an open competition, one of the frankists, the ultrena, and the fascists. But not only with Vox, but also with PSE.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u105	A ver, please. Please. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u106	Why, in Esskanos, to win a few points in Madrid? It looks like our country, our language in Madrid... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u107	A ver, please. Please. [[Berber]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u108	My point is...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u109	A ver, please. Mrs. Ubera, it's a question. No, I'm sorry. It's a question for the chief physician. You can't join the others. You know. It's just a matter of reference. We all know there's a resource, but they've lost the head, the fascist... Oh, there's plenty of that. They're all over the place. And, you know...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u110	There are other things too...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u111	No, there's plenty of them. And that's what you want in another legal proposition, but we know we're in a simple control. So you have to ask the department chief questions. And the other references, which you think they are: "They've lost their heads," "fasmists." They need to stay outside. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u112	Okay. Our country seems to have become a chromium for the tricks of Madrid, or any variety, no culture, no language, to make a trophy, a crucible to the frankers who cannot accept it. You see, then, the colleague of PP's coalition in Navarro, what a ridiculous thing he's doing, because he has censored clowns, didn't he? [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u113	No. No. Listen carefully. One thing is to make one of his ratings, and this is to say reality. Not even that one, huh? We need to know how to measure. [[Berber]] No. He didn't call you fans.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u114	Okay. But they do not realize that the loss is the fate of the loser, who is in the way of the loser: only to see what happened with Mr. Urquijo. I don't know if you remember the city council records. At last they took him to the courts and lost him. Mr. Zupiria, I know it's not up to you to finish these dynamics that you can't finish with these dynamics. But often, it's been too much fun looking at the soldiers who are serving in Madrid, and it hasn't been consistent with the people's rights when they're raised. Mr. Zupiria, you know that a decree concerning the normalizing of official languages in local institutions is the result of the agreement obtained in the municipal law in the previous legislation. EHGG is very proud of the way that opened. He's very proud of the agreement he's made. And what we want to know is if you're going to keep that decree, if you're going to keep the letter and the spirit of that decree, and it won't turn back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours. Chiefs of Culture and Language Policies First of all, thank you, Mrs. Ubera, for you have offered me an opportunity of explaining in the parliamentary decree what has been said for several days. It was published last Friday at the Basque Country Official News, and I suspect we haven't all read what the decree says. So, that's why I appreciate the opportunity. This decree aims to normalize the institutional and administrative use of our two official languages in the Basque Places. Accounts that are about to be handled in text are not new. In 2016, as you have said, the Basque Parliament accepted the Euskal Institutions Act. It is the end of what he says of the use of our languages. The Euscalal society has advanced at the last ten paces in the knowledge of the euphora, and we will continue to guarantee the teaching of the euca. Besides, we must encourage strong enterprises to enforce the social use of the eucalyptus. In order to be effective, these favorable enterprises of use must be affected in all the fields of our life by different planning and activity. And that's where the organizations have a place. First, because municipal institutions are closest to the people. And on the other hand, because municipal activities and municipal services have a remarkable influence on the common life of the people, and even on matters connected with the normalization of the community. The local institutional laws and decrees approved last week are fixed on the jurisdictions of the local authorities in their language affairs. As to the normalization of the Euscaia, the township supports the power, the power, and the ability of the town, to promote the knowledge of the eucalyptus, and to enlarge the use of it. In the townships and municipal laborers there has been a great progress in the knowledge of the euphoria of the arts, but the development of the Basques as a language is still wanting, and a great deal is still wanting in the attainment of normalization. In the townships, therefore, from knowledge to use, within the township, and in relation to the people. But even in the councils, the citizens will have the first and final word. It's the citizen's right to choose which language he's going to use in relation to the town. It is so since the Basque Act of 1982 has been established, although the authorities of the people have not yet fully confirmed this right in all cases. A council cannot oblige us to speak in the language we have not chosen to receive the documentation, or to have institutions of relations. And therefore, above all else, it is the right of the people to ensure that decree in the State of Yonkers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u116	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u117	Mr. Zupiria, this decree may be a solid landmark. This decree guarantees the rights of all of us who are trying to communicate to us of the cradle and youth. It leaves a choice. There is no disposition, no discrimination, no oppression, though some who seem to wish it so. But we are not like them. This, at the moment, is a legal protection to what is practised in the institutions. without any disposition, and solely by the right of language of the people. And this is what ought to be secured from the administration: To guarantee the rights of the popular language, of all, because we are all the same.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u119	Partners. It's about the language that's in the music. Language is an instrument for communicating, a means of preserving and living together. Our necessity, our will, our desire, and our feelings, are subject to express them. If it were possible, we should not raise more quarrels with the use of languages. The American people have a right to use two official languages of ours, and it belongs to the authorities to guarantee that they are in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u120	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interrelation, the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Ruiz de Arbulo, made to the head of the Security Division, to improve the efficiency of the edge." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, good morning to you all. I reassure you because I rise to the rostrum today not to insult anyone or to disrespect those present, to think like us or otherwise, because I believe that is not the parliamentary game. What I want today is to ask Mrs Beltran de Heredia, our Security Adviser, about the effectiveness and efficiency of the Basque Police. And I am glad that Mrs San José is also present, because some of the comments or suggestions I want to make may also affect your department. Efficiency and efficiency are similar terms, which are mixed many times, but which are not the same, Mrs Beltran de Heredia. To see how the police work and the management that you and your team do evolve, I'm going to refer to other data; we're not going to get into a salad of numbers that are always interpretable. The latest data you have provided us on the criminal increase in the last closed year of 2018 compared to 2017 tells us that the criminal acts known to the police have risen by 7.89 %. I know there are many causes, but that's why I'm telling you I don't want to go in and discuss data. It was a very significant increase over the 0.78 that had occurred between 2016 and 2017. The reality is that there are more and more criminal acts. I would therefore say that police work is not effective enough, unless the objective of his Government is to increase crime, which I doubt very much. The objectives that are sought cannot be achieved. Something's failing. There would be many reasons for this increase in crimes and some of them could justify it. I will not go in, we will not go in if we share or do not share your point of view, and we will analyze another fact that is the number of people charged for each of those criminal acts. And, indeed, here the 2018 figure has improved compared to 2017, which was happening between 2017 and 2016: more than 6 % in the latter period, compared to half, 3 % in the previous period. That brings us to a definitive figure. Madam Counsellor, around three out of ten crimes of which the police are aware are finally resolved, because the necessary persons have been found and charged and those files have been processed so that it is the justice that decides what has happened and whether or not they deserve the criminal sanction, which is their function. The specific data decreased from 31,3 % in 2017 to 30,4 % in 2018. I mean, we're gonna get worse. I therefore believe that management is not right, or at least better. But I, Commissioner, do not want you to be mad at me today, but I do not come to criticize your management, I come to make concrete proposals to you. For that we have contacted people close to this police area, to explain to us what is happening and how it could be improved. The trade union representatives – and you have today the headlines, after the 35th anniversary of the Ertzaintza majority union, which was held yesterday – ask you to improve and expand the training of the agents themselves. General training of staff, updating of basic training. It cannot be that we meet headlines like the one we meet today, that an agent of the Ertzaintza can go to the shooting gallery once every eight years or that he has not gone for eight years. I know that this is a specific case and that it is exaggerated. The reality is half, it is four or five years the period that passes between one shooting exercise and another. And I ask you, counselor, you will use a mobile phone, I suppose, or a tablet, a computer, if you turn on your mobile phone every four or five years or even, we will go to more, every eight years, do you think you would remember the keys?, do you think you would remember how it works?, do you think you would know how to turn it on and work with it? Well, we all know we don't. And that situation needs to be improved. And therefore the formation, even that of the shooting, is important that it be with a greater periodicity. Please note that private security officers are required to conduct shooting practices, examinations, every three or four months. I think it's three or four times a year. The autonomous police officers only do so on average every four years. And that's not right. This training needs to be improved. The weapon, for agents who are dedicated to citizen security, to crime prevention, is a working instrument, it is a fundamental instrument, which is better not to use. The weapon is a deterrent, but when it must be used to protect the physical integrity and life of the agents themselves or the citizens, logically, they must be trained to do it right. Because, in addition, the situations or circumstances that surround each of these moments are not usually the most optimal. And, to avoid accidents and serious damage, it is better that they have practice. But I did not want to refer only to that basic training of those basic aspects of police activity, but rather, in view of the persecution of crimes, let us say that the groups or investigation teams will need something they do not have, Mrs Beltran de Heredia, which is training on specific crimes. That is, there are crimes that are not common, cybercrimes, crimes against the sexual integrity of people, crimes against life, economic crimes, environmental crimes. These don't happen every day. Not all agents need to be trained, but some need to be trained. And the collaboration of these agents in the elaboration of the daily attestations, in the elaboration of the persecution of the crime that they do day by day in all the police stations that we have in Euskadi, has to dispense with the distances. I mean, we can't have a cybercrime specialist in each of the stations, in each of the shifts, in case something happens. But, well, yes, the interconnection between some agents and others, so that the elaboration of that police instrument, which is the police certificate, which facilitates the prosecution of the crime, is more immediate. And we all know that that doesn't work and that that training isn't the right one. But not only do the agents who are part of the union representation of the Ertzaintza, counselor, tell us that from the world of justice, they also tell us that they are the ones who receive this information for the prosecution of crimes. The Chief Prosecutor of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, at his appearance last week, made two suggestions to us, when we asked him what we could propose from this Parliament to improve the management of the prosecution of crimes and the investigation and punishment of crimes for those citizens who have missed the law. He told us precisely about the improvement in the training of the agents of the Ertzaintza so that the elaboration of the certificates would be more directed to what the police investigation has to be, so that everything will end in a conviction, when the criminal act has been committed, and above all the improvement in the material means that the agents have, and interconnectivity. That is, it cannot be that in the 21st century we continue, even though we have a 19th-century Criminal Prosecution Act, we cannot pretend that our police are functioning as in the 19th century. This is a delay. It is a very nationalist government mentality, what do you want me to say? They love to surround themselves with walls and close us to the outside world to protect our essences and those kinds of issues that they like so much. But what we need is an effective, efficient, open police that is connected with the world, with other police, with other services, with justice services. In the same way that within the justice services things do not work. I mean, we already know the affection that is attached to the members of the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine. But that they are not even connected within their own department with the investigating courts to prepare reports that facilitate the prompt prosecution of crimes is also nineteenth-century. It can't be, Justice Advisor, those things need to be improved. That is why I ask you such simple questions as the specific training for the prosecution of certain crimes or the generality of the crimes, which in the day to day fill the Basque police stations and the Basque investigative courts. Counselor, how are you going to improve that training? What are you going to do? Because this problem isn't new, it's not something that came up last week, and we've been turning it around a long time. And I would like to know what projects it has or what it is going to launch this coming 2020 to improve that situation, which is being demanded from the world of justice, from this Parliament and from the union representatives of the Ertzaintza. And as far as computer applications are concerned, is there a plan, is there anything planned? And if you don't think about it, we'll propose it from here, counselor. I mean, it's not that difficult a computer application that's faster, that's more agile, that's more modern and that's interconnected with the rest of the Basque administrations. I'm looking forward to hearing your opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs Beltran de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u123	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all. Mr Arbulo, look, the investigation, and I will start at the end, is the cornerstone of the objectives of Ertzaintza in the prevention and prosecution of crime. If we insist, as we usually do, if we insist that the citizens, the citizens denounce all the facts. If we insist on this citizen collaboration, that is precisely why, because the final objective of the Ertzaintza is to investigate, it is to resolve the complaints that are presented in our police stations, in the offices of citizen care, both those that are carried out ex officio, and those that are directly in charge of the judiciary, by the Office of the Public Prosecutor itself. I have no problem in recognizing that in the investigation procedures we also have an important margin of improvement, which we have things to improve, because it would be unnecessarily pretentious on my part to refuse to improve those aspects that are part of the wide range of functions involved in a police investigation. But obviously, after reading the argument that brought you here, this should not lead us to build the house on the roof of deficiencies. On the contrary, I believe that, first, we must recognize what we are recognizable for, what people demand our services for. And in this case, the people who are affected by the consequences of the commission of an offence denounce it, and the commitment we have to Basque society is the duty to investigate, prosecute and arrest the offenders and to bring them to justice. And make them available to justice also with sufficient evidence to enable justice to do its job. That is the commitment we have: to act effectively and efficiently. Both: effectiveness and efficiency. He said so. And with the honesty of recognizing also that the ways of organizing are not immobile, nothing is immobile, nothing is forever, that the activities must be evaluated, they must be measured and, if necessary, modified as well. And for that there is also social evaluation, an important part: how society evaluates us. We knew the Sociometer data yesterday. And when citizens are asked what three main problems or concerns they have in their daily lives, crime or citizen insecurity are far removed from their most relevant concerns. The data he gave us is that 4% of Basque citizenship points to citizens' insecurity as a problem that affects them in a special way or that is their main problem. Even the general perception of crime and public insecurity has remained stable since 2012, 2013, 2014, always below 14%. We saw yesterday the figure of 10%. And even when citizens are asked about the functioning of the public services of Euskadi, three out of four citizens, three out of four, say that Ertzaintza works between good and very well. The assessment is therefore highly positive. It puts us behind health and public education services. Data, of course, that do not at all corroborate that interpretation that you make of the police services and the services of the Ertzaintza, or that information or that perception that you want to move us here. Therefore, answering your question, what is my purpose and what is the purpose of the department, what is the purpose of Ertzaintza in relation to the protection of rights and freedoms and the persecution of crime, the answer is that: to be efficient, to be effective. Look, I'm gonna give you some data. The first nine months of this year, to quote the most recent statistics, Ertzaintza has registered 68,754 complaints. 50% are thefts, portfolio thefts, mobiles mainly and Internet scams, i.e. more than 34,000 of those 68,752 are, well, cases of very slight infringements. And I don't give a damn about the breach. But when we are talking about strategic crimes, about those crimes that all European police consider to be strategic also because of the social alarm they generate, the resolution rate is the most satisfactory and comparable to the safest regions in Europe. As far as the year goes, 100% of the murders have been solved. The nine murders or murders committed are resolved. The rate of resolution of the most serious sexual assaults has been 94%. And 66% of all crimes against sexual freedom are solved, in general. The resolution rates also reflect that in the same period, I will give you the data, the Ertzaintza has charged 21,619 people. I think these data are satisfactory. They are positive data and are research and case resolution data. I already know that they are improveable, I do not doubt it and, moreover, our aim is to improve that rate of resolution, but I believe that these data that I have just given you are the finding that there is a model of research, that there is an experience, that there are consolidated work practices, where the quality of the records, the traceability of complaints, the solidity of the attestations are a constant concern of improvement in the Ertzaintza and in the department itself. And, of course, the decisions that are being taken are absolutely well-founded decisions. Therefore, we are already working, we continue to work to be more efficient, to be more effective, to continue protecting the rights of citizens and to pursue these crimes. And we do it because, fundamentally, the police model we're driving is results-oriented, results-valued, and there's no results if there's no research. In the current organizational structure of the Ertzaintza, one in four officers is dedicated to investigation, judicial police functions or intelligence. One in four agents. There are also other indicators that place us in research parameters that are homologable to the police in our environment. We are the community of the entire State that has the most urgent practical steps, in which the most rapid trials are held. In 2018, the emergency procedures were 6,910, around 19%. This means that we are seven points above the state average, and this means that the virtuality of these urgent procedures is valued, also as a response from the Administration of Justice to these more frequent criminal forms, especially minor criminal offences, which have to do with thefts and minor offences. This is also an indicator of effectiveness. The Ertzaintza for this purpose is an agent, as you well know, and as the prosecutor herself acknowledged in her appearance here in Parliament, it is one of the driving forces for this to be so, for there to be more and more rapid trials. And this, as I say to you, of course, is the merit of the Ertzaintza organisation, but, above all, it is also because we work in a constant, fluid and committed relationship with the judicial authorities, especially the prosecutions. Among other issues, also in order to improve the attestations with shared criteria, as also expressed here by the Chief Prosecutor, in his appearance in committee in this Parliament. Continuing training. An adequate organization of services, accumulated experience, citizen collaboration, and a fluid relationship with judicial bodies. Commitments, above all, commitment to the public service that we owe to citizens. These are elements that contribute to a sound response to citizen security demands. The observation of this reality only from the point of view of the trade union or of more or less partisan interests, of course, does not change reality. The reality is what it is and the perception that the citizenry has of the work that Ertzaintza does is also what it is. And the Sociometer has just reminded us that Basque society has a positive perception, a positive assessment and a more than positive perception of the work that Ertzaintza has been doing. And in this line we will continue to work, as I told you, improving everything we see that can be improved; of course, measuring each day based on the results.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Beltran de Heredia. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u125	As well as you had begun, counselor. Please note that he was basically in agreement with everything he has told us: that, in fact, we have agents who are very professional, who are very valid and who do one of the best police and investigation and prosecution of the crimes that exist. And that, in addition, that work is much better, like everything else in this life, and that's what we have to get to. I was already happy and I had not even thought about going out in the second round, because it seemed to me good what you had said; although you have not put concrete instruments on top of the table of what you are going to do from now on. But it has ended fatal, Madam Counsellor, because I have quoted two sources: the trade union representatives, on the one hand, and the Office of the High Court of Justice, on the other, and you have told me that things cannot be seen from the trade union or party point of view. And to say that the Office of the Prosecutor is partisan seems to me to be a lack of institutional respect on your part, Counselor. Of course we have a much higher rate of fast crime prosecution than elsewhere, but that's not an Ertzaintza problem either, or a satisfaction that we should thank the Ertzaintza; that's also part of the functioning of our Justice Administration. Your Honor, look, I started exercising law in the last century, at the end of the last century. And when you came to assist the detainee at a police station, the operation was exactly the same as today. And you see that technology has advanced from then on to now. Attestations continue to be made on paper to be sent to the courts. That's nineteenth, pacato, shameful, ancient, nightly, lordship, a waste of time, a loss of efficiency, a loss of means. It's ecologically unsustainable. And, above all, it's a loss of human resources. The computer app sucks. All officers protest how bad it works, which does not allow the crime statistics to be extracted in conditions because it cannot be filled out while the specific police certificate is being made at that particular time. Attested that you have to put it on paper to get the signature and join it what they're doing in another department, and, in the end, everything is stapled. And dedicated agents or who could devote themselves to other functions take the attestations under the arm from the police station and take them to the Palace of Justice and queue at the counter of the Palace of Justice to seal the delivery. Is that police effectiveness? That's a shame, counselor. That's a shame. And that's what I'm asking you to improve. It's a computer application that's very simple, that's cheap, that you have an important budget to be able to do that kind of thing, counselor. We don't ask him anymore. It would facilitate the work of the agents. It would facilitate the work of the courts, because when that attestation comes on paper you have to unzip it, you have to put it in the photocopying machines, you have to make a lot of copies for the lawyers, for the defenses, for the accusations, for the prosecutor's office, for the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine, and come paper and come paper and come paper. Why? Because they don't want to run an electronic file. An electronic file that was discussed in Justice at the end of the last century and which today does not work at 100%. And in this case, it's not Mrs. San José's fault, it's her department, because they already have the means to receive that kind of information. Such information would greatly facilitate the prompt prosecution of crimes. And that would mean that the culprits would start paying before, the proceedings would not be delayed, the investigating courts would not waste time in investigations that could have been closed in the custody courts, Your Honor. That is what we ask of him: effectiveness and efficiency in police work. And that's why, Your Honor, I insist, you better train the officers, they're screaming at you. And improve the computer applications, which are necessary. Are you going to do something about these two specific aspects over the course of 2020? Do you have any plans to do anything, Your Honor? Thank you very much. lehendakariak Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs Beltran de Heredia, your word is yours. Security Chiefs The research is integrated into three levels, I think I have explained it on some occasion. The central level of research includes the six specialisation groups, specialized groups in computer, economic, environmental, organized crime, crimes against persons and investigation of accidents. The second level is the territorial investigation services, which are more oriented towards the investigation of organized crime. And there's also the local investigation services, police station by police station. That's the important thing, beyond paper: you've used the five minutes to talk about paper, paper and signature and you know what circumstances involve the need to put signature on paper. This is the current structure of the research services, with more activity than ever before on the part of the eye inspection groups, more gathering of evidence, therefore, better elaborated the attestations, with more evidence. A structure, in addition, that converges with intelligence services, which also have a similar deployment. We work on a continuous transfer of information between research and intelligence, two fundamental pillars in the organization of Ertzaintza. I've told you before. One in four Ertzaintza agents is integrated into one of these structures: criminal investigation or intelligence. At present, all students who are being trained at the academy receive specific instruction on the collection of complaints, the drafting of reports and the preparation of certificates, without having to certify a specific course in criminal investigation, which is also allowing us to strengthen the area of investigation. And we're not discovering anything new at all. This also allows us to allocate more resources to the investigation of cases. We try to adapt the work we do to the practices of the police environments that have the most parallels with ours, with our model, a model of broad deployment, a model with an important social implication. With regard to the relations of the Ertzaintza, in general, and the criminal investigation or intelligence services, in particular, with the judicial bodies and the Office of the Prosecutor, I would like to highlight three aspects. With regard to the telematic inclusion of police certificates on the digital platform JustiziaBat, in the Department of Security and in the Ertzaintza we are prepared and waiting for the prior migration of the computer systems of the Administration of Justice to the Batera platform, a step that is essential for the subsequent telematic incorporation of the certificates into the computer system of the Administration of Justice. In addition, I have said earlier, our collaboration with judicial bodies is reflected in a systematic participation in the National Commission for the Coordination of Judicial Police, in the Technical Advisory Committee, as well as in the Executive Service for Money Laundering, the Sepblac, in the Centre for Intelligence against Terrorism and Organized Crime, in the police commissions of judicial police, which also involves training. Training and information to improve research and to improve results. Finally, with regard to what you intend to transfer here from that bad relationship with the judicial bodies Thank you. Presidents Thank you, Mrs. Beltran de Heredia. The nineteenth point on the subject list. The question was, that the parliamentary members of the Basque Company, Carmélo Barrio Barroja Popula, made to the Chief of Work and Justice, about the Stratical Planet of Social Economy. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours. bario barroja The plenary session of the Basque Parliament just over a month ago, in a meeting held on 17 October, adopted a unanimous agreement on the social economy and the strategic plan. We must also frame this in a legislature that has been positively marked by the development of the social economy, by the role of the social economy and its impact on the work of this Parliament. We have to remember the monographic session of the working committee where a communication from the Government was discussed, motions for resolutions were adopted, which gave impetus to the social economy in its many forms. The Basque Country hosted the Global World Forum for Social Economy 2018, where the empowerment of these forms of economy was discussed. And we are now in the final process of the Basque Cooperatives Act. A law of positive cooperatives, which we approved the other day in committee, which will soon come to full and which will surely be a reference in relation to the social economy regulations, in this case, of cooperatives. The motion we adopted by unanimous agreement said "that work should be started on the elaboration of a strategic plan for the social economy, of an interdepartmental nature, implementing the economic resources necessary for its development", all for the impetus of the social economy. A strategic plan for the social economy. That is something important, and we have approved that in this Parliament. We are also in the final course of the legislature. That is why we understand that the department will have begun to work on the implementation of measures to develop issues in that strategic plan, and that is what we want it to answer, what explains us from that path. It is important to take that path and plan seriously, because it affects the economy and, above all, it affects employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u126	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u127	Thank you, Mr. President, with all the good noon. Mr Barrio, I agree with you and, if at all I am satisfied with the management throughout this legislature, it is the positive relationship between the legislature and the executive with regard to the social economy in Euskadi. I must admit that you have been one of the most active agents in this company. Our commitment to the social economy has been evident since the first intervention in order to make known the strategic lines on which our mandate was to go. The truth is that our firm conviction along with the impulse initiatives that have been adopted, as you have said, have resulted in a fully positive picture, when we are already in the final straight of the legislature. The budget proposal we are making at the moment is 56% higher than in the past parliamentary term, that is to say in 2016. Over these years we have seen the need for a thorough reflection of the situation and projection of the social economy in the Basque Country. It is true that the competencies of the department that I lead do not include the whole range of social economy, but it is a reality that operates on the most important part, from a quantitative and qualitative point of view. As you said, Mr Barrio, on 17 October you adopted a non-legislative proposal in which, among other things, you urged us to draw up a strategic plan for the social economy, of an interdepartmental nature. I must acknowledge that, at this time, apart from our daily activity, in the month and a half short since you approved that initiative, the Department of Labour and Justice, through the Directorate of Social Economy, we have focused on two axes of action: to continue the work we had already undertaken throughout the legislature to promote and strengthen the social economy and to plan the actions leading to the elaboration of that strategic plan of social economy in the terms in which you approved it. Your Honor, the presentation of the Social Economy Directorate's plan as a communication before me in this House with the 58 motions for resolutions adopted is a reference to continue in the line of deepening and reflection that we have proposed. In fact, its mandate obliges us to take a step further and transcend the scope of our powers to coordinate with other departments and bodies of civil society. The scope of the social economy is very broad. We are basically in charge of cooperatives and labour societies. The Department of Employment and Social Policy has competence over a fundamental pillar, such as integration companies and special employment centres. Agricultural cooperatives and fishermen's confreres depend on economic development and infrastructure. Public Governance and Self-Government deals with foundations and associations. And finance and economics, of social welfare entities. We are maintaining contacts to integrate all these departments, together with representatives of the entire family of social economy, universities, experts, etc., in the elaboration of this strategic plan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u128	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u129	Yes, thank you, President. Yes, thank you, Counselor, for the answer. I am grateful that you have taken this seriously and that the preparation and drafting of this strategic plan begins. What goals does a social economy strategy have to achieve and what is it going to achieve? It's going to get job creation, the fundamentals and the first, because that's it, it's rigged. The stimulus to this form of economy always gives rise to job creation and quality employment. They are formulas for the creation of more companies, because there are many companies that are created in this stimulus to the social economy. And, moreover, it is the development of economic plans not only in urban areas and in settled polygons, but in rural areas, in villages of our geography. That is why, with all that cast of social economy companies, it was so important for the motion to say about the inter-institutional plan. Of course, you have repeated this: cooperatives, labour companies, special employment centres, integration companies, associations and foundations with economic work, mutual societies, fellow fishermen, agricultural processing companies. It is a very important issue and, look, there are references and there are references in other sites of the pact on the social economy and its ways of functioning and, in addition, what it has given. Look, without going any further, there's a pact, about the social economy in Murcia. We're not going to teach the bats anything, nor are we going to teach them anything. But they are ways of working, there is a pact on the social economy, which is precisely made for the end of 2020, where there are 10,500 gross jobs and more than 250 new businesses to create, through the articulation of that pact. Ours, I don't know how much he'll quantify, but...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u131	Yes, Mr Barrio, we fully agree that the social economy creates jobs and creates quality jobs. Our steps will go in the same direction. By setting an example – because I don't have much time – just ten days ago we had a meeting with all the families of the social economy, with the three universities of the Basque Country and the presence of the Lord Thomas Zacharewicz , representative of the European Union's Economic Research Centre. At this meeting we had the opportunity to present our account of the social economy focused on this strategic plan and to seek the opinion of representatives of the social economy and universities, and the appreciation of the representative of the European Union. We will continue in this line and be sure that the work undertaken will achieve its fruits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2019-11-29.u132	Thank you, Mrs. San José. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-two.
